I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development a question. What joint investigations are being carried out by his Department with the New South Wales State Planning Authority with respect to the Menai-Holsworthy area? What is the likely delay in the release of the CampbelltownCamden development plan as a result of these investigations, or is there no connection between the investigation and the release of the plan? 
 I ask the Minister for Immigration whether it is a fact that officers of his Department when applying for overseas postings may be at a disadvantage due to the length of their hair and their mode of dress. 
I am privileged to represent the people of the ruralurban seat of Macarthur. Macarthur is an electorate of 4 distinct parts, each with its own problems and prospects. All parts have a potential to make a greater contribution to our nation, given an aware, efficient and tolerant government. It is an electorate of incredible beauty, where the grass is green, the soil is rich and the cows are contented. There is a positive correlation between basalt soils and conservative voting. Fortunately, the larger number of astute voters live in the sandstone and shale areas. 
Macarthur was named after one of the betterdescribed rogues in Australia's history and was represented for the 23 years since its creation by one of Parliament's greatest characters. The former honourable member was a man who passed through this place often but spoke little. He was a man who loved the land and was happiest with farming people. The history of the United Australia Party and the Liberal Party on the south coast of New South Wales is a history of the Bate family. Father and son served their parties well, and Jeff Bate represented parts of the present-day Macarthur in the New South Wales State seat of Wollondilly since 1937 - before I was born. It was a heartless action by the young Turks in his party to depasture him prior to the recent elections. His attainment of more than 11,000 votes, standing as an Independent, gives credence to the claim that those who scrapped him, including the present New South Wales Minister for Lands, had not lived long enough in the electorate to understand the importance of his service or the fidelity of his supporters. 

 Mr Bate, along with his colleagues in the Liberal Party, believed in subsidised, protected and privileged free enterprise, but was consistent enough to oppose the socialist legislation of the Poultry Industry Levy Collection Act when it was introduced in 1965. I have inherited the former honourable member's office. It still has a faint tang of Tilba cheese about it, but I do not like using the word tang' in this House. Unlike my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan).  I cannot claim to have received the advantage of advice and encouragement from my predecessor. This is not to say that he did not help. However I should like to pay my respects to  Mr Alan  Fraser who represented parts of the present-day Macarthur in earlier years. Alan's wisdom, his independence and his constant consistent concern for the rights of the individual will be remembered by all. He will be missed in this Parliament. 
Each Federal electorate generates problems of a national character. With the change of Government on 2nd December a mandate was given for reform and for the national Parliament to act in the interests of all Australians, quite apart from the parochial demands of each electorate, each State, each particular industry, each Government department and each pressure group. I do not wish to infer that politics is not about the articulation of demands many of which are parochial, nor that politics is about the resolution of conflicting interests, but I do infer that we must identify the national interest in so many areas of so many needs and act to create institutions flexible enough to survive and adapt to change. A 10c subsidy for Meals on Wheels is no answer to poverty. A little more state aid is no answer to educational need. An increase in the Commonwealth Aid Roads appropriation does not exactly solve our transport problems. 
We must be aware of overall social and economic climates. An increasing proportion of the population is aged under 35. The selfish individualism of the post-war years has been replaced by a more confident individualism based on mutual concern for others. The younger people demand that they make up their own minds on matters affecting them personally. They do not see that it is holier to consume than it is to think for themselves. They reject hypocrisy and are concerned with wider issues, such as the quality of life, and they are more aware of the sciences, technology and sociology. 
The major economic problem facing Australia is an excessive rate of inflation. Few policies can be implemented without taking it into consideration. One of the current myths of .politics is that the Government has inherited an economy without the massive problems that dogged previous Federal Labor governments. The simple truth is that we face a plethora of crises instead of one readily identifiable crisis, such as the World Wars or the depression, that faced past Labor governments. The fact that our balance of payments can be described by some as healthy - though it could be said that our reserves are so high that they invite retaliation - or that unemployment is starting to drop is insufficient to guarantee continued prosperity and only reflects limited thinking. Inflation is the worst distributor of income. The second rate certainties of the 1950s are no answer to urban Australia's problems. 
We live in a capitalist, semi-planned economy. For such an economy to perform best, there is a need for market forces to operate in many sectors. In other sectors there is a need for governments to act for social reasons. Above all there is a need for government to be more actively engaged in planning. Just as wages are incidental to the problem of the control of inflation, so ownership is incidental to the working of the economic system we have or create. To attribute socialism to the ownership of some utilities or r industries is to engage in sterile debate and confuse the real strength of our overall political and economic system. Sweden has a large and sensible range of nationalised industries yet 90 per cent of the gross national product of that country is derived from free enterprise. 
The core paragraph of the GovernorGeneral's Speech to which I address myself is where he so rightly points to the clear failure of existing social and economic structures to meet the needs of modern society, particularly in relation to education, social security, health, industrial relations and urban and regional development. The rapidly growing areas of Macarthur - Campbelltown, Dapto and Nowra - face every problem in this regard. These have been expounded eloquently by my colleague, the honourable member for Casey (Mr Mathews), who represents a similar electorate. But the same failure of economic structure and decision-making machinery is evident in most other areas of our crisis-ridden economy. I wish to relate this failure and my earlier remarks to 3 areas of national importance which have a direct bearing on my electorate. They are primary production, coal, and defence. 
I assure honourable members opposite that I was bom and bred on a farm but instead of inheriting grass I inherited bush. However my credentials are impeccable because I actually cleared my land and gained great moral fibre in the process. I planted 17 acres of orchard when I was 18 years old. My form of farming was prosperous so long as I worked 80 to 90 hours a week, but unfortunately chook farmers and small orchardists do not have many votes. I raise these points because after 23 years of government, when there was a specialist party looking after country interests, we now find members of the same Party opposite crying for immediate action in almost every rural field. This surely is the greatest indictment of the Country Party and its lackadaisical approach - the compromises, the confusions of the late coalition and the failure ever to act in other than a short-term, short-sighted manner. 
It has been said that the Government is acting slowly with respect to rural reconstruction. The previous Government gave an undertaking that $18m would be available for rural reconstruction in 1973-74 to finance approvals during the latter part of 1972-73. The Labor Government is not going back on this undertaking. The Government is now engaged in a review of rural debt and rural reconstruction which was initiated by the previous Government. As honourable members know full well, a meeting will be held this month to announce the conditions and the financing of the furtherance of the scheme. The immediate need, of course, is for carry on finance, but the Commonwealth Government has never been equipped to allocate funds on an individual basis. One State government - New South Wales - did not adhere to assurances given to the previous Government on rural reconstruction so it is a little hypocritical for people to criticise the new Government for laxity when it has a problem that the current Opposition clearly could not handle when in office. 
It has been said that there is deception on the question of revaluation compensation. In December 1971 Australia appreciated 6.32 per cent against the United States dollar. In a wide movement of currencies Australia effected an overall depreciation in relation to the parities of our trading partners of approximately 1.75 per cent. In a Press statement of 22nd December 1971 the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  said: 
The changes in international exchange rates will adversely affect some of the rural industries already experiencing difficult times. The Government is therefore prepared to examine and consider the position of those rural industries which are seriously affected. 
Note the change of policy. There was no mention of compensation but merely a promise to examine and consider cases of industries already in trouble. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who attacked the new Government for not providing compensation for currency alterations, has conveniently forgotten the 1971 decision of the government of which he was a member. Indeed, he was a leading member - the tail that wagged the dog so to speak. A number of rural industries indicated to the Department of Primary Industry that they had been harmed by the appreciation of the Australian dollar, but the Budget figures last August showed that nothing had been paid to those industries. During 1972 the Treasury made it clear that the Prime Minister's statement stood and that assistance to industries in difficulties had replaced loss compensation as the policy of the McMahon Government. 
We are presently faced with far more wideranging movements in world currency valuations. After the December 1972 revaluation of .the Australian dollar the Labor Government established an interdepartmental committee to examine the impact on rural industries. Provisions were laid down on which to base adjustment assistance. In brief, they were, firstly, where difficulties and problems of adjustment were already being faced at the time of adjustment, and, secondly, where the industry would experience difficulty in bearing the consequences of appreciation. As a consequence a welfare grant of up to $1,500 is available to growers producing export apples and pears and canning fruits. In addition a supplementary grant is available for growers eligible for clear fall assistance under the fruit growing reconstruction scheme. The submissions of other industries will be examined by the committee. In addition, following the February 1973 devaluation of the United States dollar, it was announced that the interdepartmental committee would examine submissions on the same conditions as applied to the revaluation decision of December. Not only did the Labor Government act quickly on currency changes but also it adopted a position not altogether dissimilar from that of the previous Government. Unlike its predecessor. Labor has actually made funds available for rural industries. 
The compensation issue can only be approached on an examination of each industry. This Government recognises the very important aspect of the principle of identifying the welfare need. But even in these early days of government some attempt must be made to formulate a national approach to rural policy and the approach must be in depth and apart from the ad hocery of the past. I have a profound sympathy for the problems of the rural sector and do not go along with some of the ideas of city journalists. However, the traditional Country Party approach that only those who produce a commodity should decide how to market it might have been a popular catchery in the country, but it clearly has not worked. As an exfarmer I would be the first to agree with it if it had. I might add that if the ALP adopted the same approach to its relationship with the trade unions you would be able to hear the Country Party bellowing in Outer Mongolia. The recent Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development report shows that Commonwealth financial assistance has risen from 12.3 per cent of gross farm product in 1969 to 18.4 per cent in 1972. Yet the problems have become no easier in the long term. 
The current high prices for many of our rural commodities lead me to believe that there are no problems for the future of our trade. Although arguments for and against devaluation can be sustained, there does seem to be evidence that both revaluation and devaluation do little to change a country's relative trading position. While trade balances may not respond predictably to exchange rate changes, they do appear to be quite closely related to differential growth rates. If a government acts only at the behest of rural organisations, a person can find himself in a position where he is, for example, for the acquisition of the wool clip one year and against it the next, or he is using organisations such as the Australian Wool Industry Conference to forestall decisions. 
The reference in the Governor-General's Speech to a protection commission provides the basis for a more considered rational approach. It is roughly in accord with that suggested by a committee of the Liberal Party chaired by the honourable member for 
Corangamite  (Mr Street),  The goodsproducing sectors of our economy need special consideration. However, 1 trust that confusion between economic and social problems will cease. It seems to me to be far more sensible to subsidise farm income by means such as a negative income tax than it does to subsidise farm inputs. In social terms the need for retraining and education in the rural sector is just as essential as in secondary industry. 
The ALP accepts responsibility for its decisions, but we are not going to act along the lines of more of the same when clearly the approach has not worked. The GovernorGeneral's Speech made reference to the fact that for the first time this country will have a Minister for Minerals and Energy. This move is long overdue as we have previously possessed a Ministry for National Development which had no charter to identify our national interest in this growing and vital area. The work of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who is the Minister for Minerals and Energy, has been immediate in areas requiring action and has been long overdue. He has been accused of acting parochially with respect to Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations due to the fact that his is an industrial electorate concerned with mining. This is nonsense as it is in my electorate and the electorates of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  that the crunch is now on. Unions and employers have been fighting to preserve the employment of some 600 men in the electorate of Macarthur who, for a 2-month period, have worked on virtually a week to week basis. One hundred and fifty men have lost their jobs and uncertainty hangs over the jobs of the 1,300 miners and the 700 or so other workers and contractors in the Burragorang Valley. There was a possibility that the last Government was prepared to sacrifice all these jobs. 
Let us look at this question from a national point of view without the emotional response of 'destroying Queensland to gain Queensland's markets for the high priced mines of the south'. Those are despicable words. The 
Joint Coal Board's annual report for 1971-72 shows that 465 men had lost their jobs in New South Wales. Many more have lost them since. It also shows that over S50m was invested in mines last year in New South Wales. Due to the fact that coal in the Bowen Basin is more easily extracted,  does  it make sense nationally to wipe out this investment overnight? Does it make sense to throw away a 3-foot seam of coal in Queensland because it is not up to standard? Does it make sense to forsake revenue by selling coal too cheaply overseas? The Minister has made it perfectly clear that he is not acting to help Clutha v. Utah - they are, after all, both overseas companies. But let us consider this from a nationalistic point of view. Do honourable members honestly consider that if Australian companies were mining California for the Japanese market, the United States Government would allow our firms to cut each  others  throats and give the United States a pittance in royalties? It is not the fault of United States companies in Australia that absurdities abound, lt is ours, as Australians, and that of the previous Government. The principal culprit is the federal system. 
I am not particularly concerned about the diatribes of an individual State Premier or about an individual Premier. That Premiers have been placed in a position of giving our resources away is more a reflection on problems of Commonwealth and State financial relations than anything else. However, it must be pointed out that there is evidence that the Queensland Government refused increased royalties, preferring increased rail freights so that they could bargain harder with the Commonwealth at the Australian Loan Council. We need to look closely at the whole royalty question. Little economics has so far been applied. I seek leave to include a table which is part of an unpublished master's thesis by  Mr Alan  Henderson of Monash University which shows that the royalty revenue per head of population in Queensland was 37c in 1968- 69. I doubt that the proportion has increased since. 

<graphic href="082131197303083_75_2.jpg"></graphic>

There are at least 6 areas on which a national minerals and energy policy should centre. They include: Foreign ownership and control; legislative needs, taxation, royalties, subsidies and incentives; export control; decentralisation and infrastructural assistance; and further processing.. I could go on with these matters but I hope to have a chance to speak on this at a later occasion. I could point out that it has recently been calculated that the benefits to Australia of the mineral sector are not quite of the magnitude expounded by some. The change in capital per man in Australia has raised national income by one-fiftieth of one per cent; consumer surplus accruing through price reductions has been outweighed by adverse changes in terms of trade; taxation gain has been onequarter of one per cent of national income; indirect gains via linkage effects have been negligible; and rapid capital inflow has been a major cause of inflation. It may be that in the long run our mineral sector will reduce national income. I cannot expound on these claims but I am very glad that our Minister is acting quickly in the area of natural gas. He does not believe in the virtues of a 2-pipeline policy and neither do I. 
One of the most significant changes the Government will effect will be the combination of the 5 former defence departments into one for administrative purposes. It is essential to do this so that unnecessary duplication will not take place and so that one-service optimisation in procurement programs will be avoided. Whether or not we have 10 years of low threat, as stated by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  may be debatable but it is certain that we have a chance to integrate our equipment and manpower programs. Given the nature of defence heirarchies and the implications of Nixon's Guam Doctrine, it seems to me that we should also review our procedure for the collection and assessment of intelligence so that it assumes a more relevant aspect. Defence is too important to be left entirely to defence personnel and decision makers, who by the very nature of defence planning must be less informed than they should. At the same time it is beyond the ability of mere politicians to make detailed decisions about procurement programs. But we should be able to define goals, ask relevant questions and be able to define the constraints. Given these factors planners should then be able to put up a range of alternatives. 
The defence Budget is the resources constraint. But the defence Budget is really the way in which a multitude of economic political and social factors manifest themselves in the defence planning process. Many of these other political and social factors have to be identified. This is where politicians can help or at least throw up some flak. I have profound doubts as to the construction of the 3 DDL destroyers for $355m at 1972 prices. This well may limit options for re-equipment of the Fleet Air Arm or for other naval equipment. As there is a naval air power study under way I believe that no decision should be made on the DDLs until that time. Even more importantly, given our resource limitations, we need to examine total naval requirements. If we are concerned with the defence of Australia - and I doubt that such a study has ever been done in modern times - it may well prove that our Navy needs to go increasingly under water or that we need more small ships and attack through deck cruisers with vertical take-off and landing aircraft. Having the Fleet Air Arm in my electorate has given me some bias in this direction. Robert Macnamara once said: 
You cannot make decisions simply by asking yourself whether something might be nice to have, you have to make a judgment on how much is enough. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs prepared to release the hitherto secret 
Scott Report on Aboriginal conditions on the South Coast of New South Wales? If he is, could he inform the House what infant mortality rate the report showed and whether he would be prepared to ask for another inquiry to check the accuracy of the figures? 
Can the Minister for Education inform the House on a proposal for the training of teachers of the handicapped, known as the Thomas Report? As this proposal was dependent on Commonwealth funds for its approval, is there any likelihood that it will be gone ahead with? If not, could the Minister assure the House that the report will be examined by the Interim Schools Commission or other relevant bodies? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Leader of the Opposition misrepresented me by implying that my question to the Minister for Education was dictated by the Minister. The Minister's answer gave the lie to this statement. Quite clearly the inferences contained in my question we're incorrect. I realise that past abuse of question time is still quite clearly in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition, but I can assure him that the front bench of the Labor Party sits in alert anticipation- 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that serving members of the armed forces are not allowed to buy New South Wales Housing Commission homes? Is this a matter in which the national Government has no say? If so, would the Minister be prepared to discuss the situation with the New South Wales Government? 
 I wish to raise a grievance held by many people in my electorate. Firstly, however, I should like to comment that we are all getting a little sick and tired of this 'did, did not' childish sort of debate that goes on in this House in regard to who is abusing the forms of the House and who is not. The figures reveal that, during the last Parliament, the gag was applied 223 times. I think we all realise both in government and in Opposition that time is one of the most important resources in politics and until all parties work out in committees how the House is to be run, this sort of debate is just time wasting. 
I wish to raise a matter of yet another rural industry that was long neglected by the previous Government. I refer to the broiler chicken growing industry which is very strongly represented in my electorate. In many ways, the broiler growing industry is a bit of a Cinderella industry but I think it is one that is starting to grow up and it is now looking to governments for a little more protection, sympathy and understanding. The sort of problems that broiler growers face and have faced for a long time are nearly identical to the problems faced by people such as service station lessees and licensed owner truck drivers. In different ways groups of people in these industries now are more often seeking government action to give them some sort of backing. 
Most people in the broiler growing industry, including the processors, do not desire heavyhanded government legislation, but they certainly want some government understanding of their position. There is a wide range of measures that the national Government has in mind, such as in the fields of restrictive trade practices, monopolies and uniform company law, that may eventually enable broiler growers to better their lot. Growers in all States have been pressing for legislation to protect their position but so far the reaction of individual State Ministers for Agriculture has been to point out the difficulties of making legislation work, given section 92 of the Constitution. The Victorian Farmers' Union's broiler and turkey section has been fighting for  5  years to have enacted a Bill which was introduced in 1968, subsequently redrafted but taken no further. The New South Wales Broiler Growers Association has been fighting for legislation and constantly negotiating with processors for at least 8 years. 
Broiler growing is an integrated primary industry. It commenced in this way and has grown in that form. The grower provides shedding, labour and management. His only security in his enterprise is a so-called contract which is constantly renegotiated on either a general basis, with all growers supplying one processor, or a specific basis. The contract as such is little more than a gentlemen's agreement. Such agreements are fine while ever one is agreeing with gentlemen - and there are some men in the industry who are gentlemen. The system of integration applying to the broiler industry was perfected in the depressed areas of northern Alabama and Georgia in the United States. Although most growers enter the industry with the idea that they are to some extent their own master they soon realise that they are in exactly the same position as trade unionists, inasmuch as all they can do is bargain with those from whom their money comes. 
Many of the integrators who run the industry, in conjunction with the growers, in the way that the integrated system works, always try to act with the growers' interests at heart. However, the industry has now grown to the stage where there is an element of competition between the integrators. Professional management has been introduced and growers find themselves in a situation where, they are in a constant bargaining and negotiating position. It is the integration system of primary production that now seems to be causing the trouble. There are often doubts as to whether the growers will receive any money at all because if a grower gets stuck with a bad batch of chickens be may well work for 3 months for a loss. For example, in Victoria recently a man growing 82,000 chickens over a 3 month period lost $3,400. The grower takes any loss caused by the vagaries of the weather himself. If there is a heatwave and he loses chickens that is his responsibility. 
The growers contract to grow a batch of chickens supplied by the integrator. The grower provides heat and water for the chickens while the integrator owns the chickens and provides feed to be paid for at the conclusion of the batch and medication, which is charged for either at the time of delivery or again at the conclusion of the batch. The integrator decides which feed and medication is to be used and he also decides when he will pick up the chickens. When the chickens are picked up the grower has no control as to the procedures adopted for the weighing of his chickens. Although I would not infer that integrators deliberately set out to rob growers, the situation arises whereby if there is any doubt or human error the grower has no right of appeal. However, it should be clearly remembered that the growers enter into contracts with their eyes wide open. Even now there is a long list of people who would be quite happy to grow chickens for integrators. My concern is that there should be some sort of rationality and some sort of government concern for the industry as a whole. The integrators are well organised. The broiler growers themselves are well organised. The growers allege that there is a large degree of monopoly and overseas take over in the industry. I do not actually agree with this but I would point out that some of the integrators are part of the same complex of firms and activities that are affecting all aspects of the bread, flour and stock feed industries at present. There is certainly the menace of monopoly. 
For the first time moves are now afoot for growers in all States to push for some form of State legislation to protect them from some of the more blatant forms of ungentlemanly actions being carried out Over the last 2 years in both Victoria and New South Wales, particularly New South Wales, negotiations between integrators and growers have been carried out with some degree of Government supervision. However growers have always found that when an issue of a difficult nature cropped up they were rarely as well placed in the argument as were the integrators with the Government. I have long been of the opinion that the New South Wales Minister of Agriculture is a very sympathetic and able man who somehow gets beaten at other levels of the coalition Government of that State. The main form of contract in New South Wales has been a pooled average return contract whereby all growers for a batch period are assured of roughly equal justice. Some integrators now possess large farms of their own and it is alleged that they can use these as bargaining instruments. However the main way the present contracts are being broken to the disadvantage of growers is through the ability of integrators to pull some members out of the pool or give special consideration to new entrants or favoured growers. 
The Minister in New South Wales has been mainly advised of various claims via the Poultry Advisory Board. To extend the knowledge of this body, the New South Wales Broiler Growers Association and the Poultry Industry Association, which is the integrators lobby, have made submissions for a joint committee of integrators and growers with Government observers. From this committee we now have a further committee set up to examine the parameters of the costs in the industry. But total agreement can never be reached, and growers now see that they are back to square one. They negotiated over a long period. They reached a fair amount of agreement over 2 years, but they are still unhappy. This is causing a lot of dissent which is leading to a breakdown in relations painfully established by responsible people in the industry over a long period. Victoria, which has long been favoured by better prices than New South Wales, has recently had returns to growers significantly cut. The New South Wales Broiler Growers Association has always been prepared to negotiate fairly and prepare very detailed figures for quasi-adjudication by Government committees or the Minister. But, as I said, ultimate agreement is always hard to reach. It is alleged that the reaction of the integrators now is to start construction of their own farms, but I doubt that this will provide a cheaper chicken for the public in the long run. Growers maintain that present tax laws make it possible for integrators to expand their activities. Although growers themselves can exploit tax concessions they can do this only while they are expanding, and this again depends on the whim of the integrator. 
At the start of my speech I stated that I did not think that growers really wanted a lot of legislation. They have been forced into this situation by the effects of integration on the industry. It does not go without saying that integrators want no legislation - some perhaps in their own interests. I would be the first to admit that there have been some growers who in previous years have abused the system, but this time has long since gone. The leaders of the industry are responsible people who only want some backing by the Government when it comes to the resolution of an issue where they have every fact on their side. Some growers have been told that legislation is a long way off and that integrators will be able to get around it in any case, and this may well be. If the States can agree on the need to act finally in the matter, a uniform contract may be able to be reached. I also hope that if the States can agree and if the Federal Government again can provide some sympathy and understanding, some form of independent arbitration can be set up via the States. Unless these things are done, more inflexible legislation ultimately will have to be introduced. 
I address a question to the Minister for Immigration. As there are 1,200 unemployed women in the Wollongong employment district, will he consult wilh the Minister for Labour and ascertain whether any of the 600 stated vacancies at Broken Hill Co. Pty Ltd could reasonably be filled by women? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that the Australian Veterinary Association, the Commonwealth-States Veterinary Committee, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and university veterinary scientists have long requested the establishment of a maximum security veterinary laboratory so that research, specialisation, production of vaccines and diagnosis of exotic virus diseases of livestock may be undertaken? Is he aware that these bodies do not see as adequate the provision of only a high security import quarantine station at Norfolk Island or elsewhere? Is any investigation under way on the provision of a maximum security laboratory? 
I have much pleasure in supporting the motion for the appointment of a joint committee on the Northern Territory. I think the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  can be assured that his experience with the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs to which he referred will not occur again. I am quite sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will be given a far greater forum for the electorate he represents than he has ever had. There seems to be a large measure of unanimity between the parties in this House on this matter. This augurs well for the deliberations of the Committee. Despite this, I have decided, with great originality, to give a lecture sub-titled 'The Sins of the Past Government', for a short time anyhow. I have observed that this theme is a great favourite in this House and has many allusions to a continuing Victorian melodrama. We are, of course, provided with so much ammunition on this side, as the actions and thinking of the previous Government was indeed Victorian - and I do not refer to the dominance of the Liberal Party by members from the State of Victoria. The Northern Territory will be well served by this Government. For the first time it has a full-time member. 
 I am sorry. I meant to say 'a full-time Minister'. 
I will concede that he is a half-time Minister. It will make a lot of difference to the people of the Northern Territory to have a Minister who goes to the Territory to talk to them. It is a very large area. In his recent foray over a period of days the Minister met many people. This was the first time they were met by a Minister - a half-time Minister. The only Ministers I associate with the past Government's duration of office are those Ministers and priests in the many religious orders who care for and educate so many of the Northern Territory Aboriginal population. Of the Northern Territory population of 72,000 about 22,000 are Aboriginals. The way the previous Government avoided its responsibility and acted to back overseas owners in the exploitation of these people will no longer continue because this Government also has a Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant).  The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  will be increasingly concerned with development projects in the Northern Territory. We all trust that the only future initiatives in development will not be made on behalf of those who are after a fast dollar. I need refer only to the submission made by  Mr J.  N. Kelly, a pastoral consultant, to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control on 7th August last year.  Mr Kelly  strongly criticised ownership of Northern Territory cattle stations in his submission to that Committee. In referring to pasture improvement he said that the record was not good. 
-I propose to speak on the need for a maximum security veterinary laboratory in Australia. I asked a question of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  on Tuesday of this week and I am encouraged by his interest in this matter. My question supplemented one asked last week by the honourable member for Patterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  I consider this matter to be one of the most important issues facing Australian agriculture. There are many major livestock diseases exotic to Australia which, if introduced, could have devastating consequences for our livestock industries and for the economy in general. The quarantine service operated by the Commonwealth Department of Health has so far proved a remarkably effective barrier against the accidental introduction of these diseases, but no quarantine service, however efficient, can hope to provide forever an absolute guarantee against their entry. With the rapidly increasing sea and air traffic between Australia and the rest of the world, the risk of exotic diseases penetrating our quarantine barrier must inevitably grow stronger each year. 
Although a number of exotic diseases have considerable potential for harming our livestock industries, Australia has most reason to fear foot and mouth disease and blue tongue. The effect of an outbreak of foot and mouth disease on livestock production would be seriously damaging and its effect on trade would be disastrous. Much of our overseas trade in livestock products would be brought to a standstill overnight. Moreover, the suspension of trade would remain not merely until the disease was eradicated but until such time as Australia was able to prove this to the complete satisfaction of its trading partners. 
We can roughly quantify the potential losses in monetary terms. Australia's 150 million sheep, representing an investment of $5,000m and ah annual income of $ 1,000m, plus or minus, are particularly at risk with respect to blue tongue. The insect which spreads the disease is present and all that is needed is the virus which could kil] 50 per cent of our flock. Our beef cattle industry is now worth $2,000m and our dairy industry not much less. The United States of America is our main beef market and in the absence of any other evidence, the United States would normally require that a country remain free of foot and mouth disease for some years before resuming imports from that country. If the worst came to the worst, a maximum security diagnostic laboratory would reduce this period. 
In the event of a major exotic disease entering Australia, veterinary authorities would be severely handicapped by the absence in this country of a laboratory with a great enough degree of microbiological security to enable highly infectious material to be handled without any danger of the disease agent escaping and causing further outbreaks. Such facilities, which exist in all of the countries constituting the principal export markets for our livestock products, can play an important role in the initial diagnosis and are absolutely essential for the enormous amount of diagnostic work associated with eradication campaigns. Should vaccination be adopted for control and eradication, maximum security facilities would be essential for testing and potency and safety of the vaccines used. Moreover, if it became necessary to vaccinate livestock against foot and mouth disease, maximum security facilities would be required for both the production and the testing of a suitable vaccine. 
Although eradication may be achieved in a matter of days or weeks, an extensive testing program would be required for some considerable time afterwards in order to demonstrate that the disease had been eradicated. This testing can be carried out only in a maximum security laboratory. The Department of Health is currently investigating the establishment of a quarantine station on Norfolk Island so that livestock can be imported into Australia to improve the productivity of our animal industries. If the station is to draw livestock from countries where diseases such as foot and mouth, rinderpest and blue ton gue are endemic, separate maximum security laboratory facilities must also be provided in which special tests can be carried out to ensure that livestock held at the station is completely free from exotic diseases before being allowed entry to Australia. 
A maximum security laboratory would, in addition to facilitating the importation of livestock and acting as an insurance against the introduction of exotic diseases, provide a valuable and much needed facility for research on virus diseases already endemic in Australia. Research on these viruses; several of which affect man as well as livestock, has been hampered to date by a lack of a maximum security laboratory. Because of the inadequacy of our knowledge of endemic diseases, virologists would in many situations be unable to differentiate quickly between an endemic and an exotic disease. Any such delay in diagnosis could have severe economic repercussions. If time permits, 1 will expand on what I have said on the functions of diagnosis, vaccination, vaccine production, testing and research. 
The rapid detection and diagnosis of an exotic disease can be the single most vital factor in its successful control and eradication. Once a disease is suspected in the field it must be confirmed in the laboratory. Australian laboratories currently hold diagnostic reagents for a very limited number of exotic diseases, including Newcastle disease and swine fever. But in most cases confirmation of a field diagnosis cannot be made in Australia. Since vaccination may be necessary at some stage of a control or eradication cam.pign, it is important that the diagnosis reveals not only the virus responsible for the disease but also the type or strain of the virus. For example, 16 different types of blue tongue virus and 7 types of foot and mouth disease virus have been identified so far. The picture is further complicated by the fact that the 7 foot and mouth disease virus types can be subdivided into at least 80 different subtypes. 
At present Australia is entirely dependent on the Animal Virus Research Institute at Pirbright in England for any diagnoses of foot and mouth disease. As the world reference laboratory for foot and mouth disease, Pirbright receives from all over the world specimens from animals suspected of having been infected by the disease. As a result, foot and mouth disease virus types not present within England or Europe are investigated at the institute. Other arrangements exist whereby Australia can have specimens of suspected rinderpest examined at the United States Department of Agriculture's Plum Island Animal Disease Laboratory and specimens of suspected blue tongue and African horse sickness examined by the Division of Veterinary Services at Onderstepoort, South Africa. There are many other exotic diseases which have to be diagnosed overseas, however, where there are less firm responsibilities. In these instances there have been very serious delays. For example, a suspected Newcastle disease-like virus isolated in Australia in 1968 was confirmed in the United States only after several months delay. By comparison, the CSIRO Division of Animal Health, because it possessed the necessary diagnostic reagents, was able to confirm the diagnosis in 12 hours. Material from a suspected outbreak of rinderpest from Papua New Guinea was immediately incinerated on arrival at an African diagnostic laboratory because at that time they had begun to make rinderpest vaccine from attenuated strains and could not permit virulent virus into the laboratory. Uncertainties and delays in diagnosis as a result of dependence on other countries are no longer tolerable. 
Livestock can be rendered immune to most, but not all exotic diseases by vaccination. Although vaccination of susceptible animals might sometimes be used to help eradicate an exotic disease, it would, in most instances, be used as a control measure only when eradication measures proved unsuccessful. For example, if an outbreak of foot and mouth disease was detected in Victoria before it had much of an opportunity to spead, there would be a good chance that an extensive slaughtering campaign would eradicate the disease. If, on the other hand, an outbreak occurred in northern Australia, it might be some time before it was detected. It might then be so firmly entrenched that it would be necessary to try to confine the outbreak within a buffer area in which all susceptible livestock were vaccinated prior to eventual slaughter for eradication. However, the chances of eradicating an insect transmitted disease such as bluetongue once it entered the country would be remote and a policy of control by vaccination would then be necessary. This is the disease that threatens 1 50 million sheep. 
The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories is currently building high security not maximum security facilities that will enable it to produce live attenuated vaccines for use against a number of exotic diseases including bluetongue in the event of their entering the country. These facilities will not be suitable, however, for the production of foot and mouth disease vaccine since this involves handling large quantities of live, highly virulent virus. Because of the risks involved, only maximum security facilities can be used for foot and mouth disease vaccine production. At present the only place in the world where Australia could have an acceptable foot and mouth disease vaccine prepared to combat the outbreak would be at Pirbright, England. Too much reliance should not be placed on the availability of these facilities. 
If the laboratory is to deal effectively with any exotic disease that might be introduced, it needs to be manned by a permanent team of highly trained and highly competent virologists who are well versed in security procedures. The only satisfactory way of ensuring the presence of a team of the calibre required would be for the laboratory to engage in research. This would also mean that the laboratory, which would represent a considerable capital investment - some estimates go as high as S30m  -  would be used effectively at all times. I believe that a study on some of the matters I have mentioned will soon be completed. I trust that we will act to ensure that Australia has a maximum security veterinary laboratory and avoid potential disaster. 
I wish to raise a matter which is affecting more and more people in my electorate and, I am sure, in all electorates. I will be speaking about the problems of consumers, particularly with respect to the purchase of motor vehicles and so-called warranties. To do this, I will bring to the attention of honourable members one specific case which is typical of many complaints that 1 and State Australian Labor Party members in Macarthur are receiving. On 1st September 1972, a constituent from Shellharbour purchased a Datsun 1200 utility for $2,087, phis registration and insurance. Although the vehicle was sold to him as new on a 6 months or 6,000-mile warranty, it was later learned that the vehicle was a 1971 model. There was no obvious evidence of rust in the vehicle at that time, but after 3 weeks when the utility was put in for servicing if was discovered that there was rust in the panels of the car. Soon after, the paint work began to fade on some panels and the car, instead of being a uniform blue, started to resemble a patchwork of fading panels which could not be restored by rubbing back as it subsequently was learned that the undercoat used was of a gloss base on some panels. 
The owner paid $100 in service costs during the 6 months warranty period to preserve the guarantee. He started to suspect that he had been sold a demonstrator model which had been involved in an accident or a second hand vehicle which had been involved in an accident. Neither of these suspicions could be proved. However, his suspicions could well have been true because from then on the vehicle began steadily to deteriorate although, other than  a  tail shaft wobble that prevented the vehicle being driven above 40 miles an hour, its mechanical condition was not too bad. But the vehicle had become a first grade 'lemon' in the United States vernacular. 
From this time on this poor owner engaged in argument between himself and the company from which he bought the car and, eventually, the New South Wales agent, Capitol Motors Ltd. He wrote to the Nissan company in Japan and to the Consumer Affairs Bureau. He went through every process possibly available to him. The list of jobs that eventually the company agreed to do included the following: The bonnet had to be resprayed, the upper outer corners of the windscreen sealing rubber had to be resealed - to no avail, eventually - the corners were sticking out from the bodywork and there were buff marks on the right hand side of the turret. The list goes on for pages and pages. After all this work was done, he again decided, the National Roads and Motorists Association decided after a subsequent inspection and Capitol Motors decided after another inspection that there was still a large amount of work to be done on the car. The front bonnet had to be resprayed again - the rust was showing - the tailgate had to be resprayed, the undercarriage had to be treated with rust prevention material and repainted, windscreen rubbers had to be replaced, the car leaked, there was a whining noise in the differential, there was vibration in the vehicle and it had an erratic fuel gauge. Again, the list goes on. The Japanese company, NissanDatsun, expressed great and prompt concern for this man and his troubles with his vehicle and stated that it considered that the New South Wales State distributor, Capitol Motors, should work to overcome his problems. 
As I stated at the outset, this is not an isolated case and there is a general requirement for overall remedial action from both consumer and safety points of view. These eventually will involve governmental action, and the sooner the better, in my opinion. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  referred last week to the Government's plans with respect to road safety. It is about time that Australia paid much more attention to safety problems caused by vehicle defects. I refer honourable members to an article in the "National Times' of 5th March 1973, in which many of these consumer problems are outlined. The 3 major United States car manufacturers in Australia and the United Kingdom firm British Leylond enjoyed different conditions from those pertaining to their parent companies. But now Leyland has set out to emulate the buyer protection scheme introduced by American motors which resulted in their lifting sales by 20 per cent. It is to be hoped that the same reward will accrue to Leyland in Australia in its pace setting endeavour. The article states: 
The Australian consumer should know about American conditions in order to judge whether things need to be changed in Australia. 
In Australia motor vehicle safety is on an advisory State level and is dependent upon the voluntary cooperation of the auto industry. In the US the Federal Government controls motor vehicle safety standards and compliance by the auto industry, local and foreign, is mandatory. Federal control has: (a) made cars safer for Americans; (b) not cut back private enterprise; (c) has not interfered with commercial competition. 
The assistance and protection afforded the prospective car buyer and the car owner In the US are detailed in the 1972 Annual Report from the US Department of Transportation which also: 
Publishes comparative performance data sheets on all vehicles, both local and imported. 
Publishes figures for tyre reserve loads and braking performances on a comparative basis for all vehicles available to the public. 
Requires all manufacturers and dealers, local and foreign, to provide information performance sheets, including clear statements regarding the manufacturer's compliance with the US Federal Department's mandatory Federal Motor Vehicle Safety, Standards. 
Requires all manufacturers and dealers to make this information available to all inquirers whether buyers or not, precisely for comparative shopping. 
Publishes annually and makes available to the public in booklet form the Federal Motor Vehicle Standards. 
Publishes fact sheets which deal with a variety of vehicles and traffic subjects in an easily understood way. . . . 
Gives its Consumer Protection Bulletin the widest possible circulation through the news media. . . . 
Uses the Public Advisory bodies to alert the public to dangers in general categories of vehicle equipment. 
Believes the public has a right to a prompt and responsive hearing of individual complaints. . .  
Earlier I referred to this constituent of mine. It is quite obvious that his complaints have not had a fair hearing at governmental or company level. The Australian Government must give similar protection to the Australian consumer by asking all United States car companies operating through subsidiaries in Australia, and all other subsidiaries which import vehicles, to meet the same safety and pollution control standards as well as notification of defects and recall programs as is the case in the United States of America. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is there any evidence of an increase In the incidence of leptospirosis in cattle. 
Will he ask the CSIRO to investigate the causes of this disease and attempt to provide a solution for its control. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the difficult situation smaller stock feed manufacturers face in securing supplies of bran, pollard and meatmeal. 
On what basis is the price of flour fixed for home consumption. 
On what basis is the price of mill offals fixed. 
Is it a fact that prices of up to $43.00 per metric ton are being charged for bran and pollard by mills in a favoured position for the same products whose quoted price is $33.50 (bran) and $35.50 (pollard) per metric ton. 
Do flour millers who manufacture stock feed cost bran and pollard into their feed at $52.00 per ton. 
How many flour mills have ceased operation in Australia in the last (a) 12 months and (b) 5 years. 
How many tons of meatmeal were (a) exported and (b) consumed locally in stock feed manufacture in 1971-72. 
Are increases in the price of wheat passed on entirely into the price of flour when millers adjust prices. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia take any action concerning selfdetermination and independence for the New Hebrides (a) with the colonial powers; and (b) within the United Nations Organisation during the period 1970 to 1972 inclusive. If so, what action was taken; if not, why not? 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia take any action concerning selfdetermination and Independence for New Caledonia (a) with the colonial power; and (b) within the United Nations Organisation during the period 1970 to 1972 inclusive; if so, what action was taken; if not, why not? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the conditions under which benefits are paid by each State under the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act. 
What are the rates of payment in each State.   Mr Hayden  - The answer to the honourable member's  question is as follows: 
and (2) Assistance provided by State Governments to needy mothers is of a discretionary nature. Accordingly, both the rate of benefit and the required conditions of eligibility may be varied in special cases to meet individual needs. The rates and eligibility conditions detailed below are those understood to be normally applied. 
Cash sustenance of up to $16 per week plus an amount of up to $4.50 per week for each eligible child may be paid. A mother's allowance of up to $7 per week may also be payable. 
Assistance is provided if negotiable assets are not greater than $500, cash sustenance being reduced by the amount of weekly income in excess of $4 a week. Some forms of income, e.g., child endowment, are disregarded. 
Where appropriate the mother is required to take legal action for maintenance from the father of her child or children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What is the name and uses of the chemical which caused the threat to human life in Auckland recently. 
Is this chemical being imported into Australia; if so, in. what quantities. 
Is it intended to import the chemical for use at WEE WAA for spraying on cotton plants. 
If so, what are the likely effects of this chemical on the environment. 
What additional risks will operatives incur if its use proceeds. 
What information is available on the health of operatives using organic phosphate insect sprays. 
In the second reading speech on this Bill the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  made it clear that this legislation is only to enable assistance to be provided for work on 3 creeks flowing into the ocean south of the Tweed River. The 3 creeks were inadvertently left out of the proposals submitted by the New South Wales Government in 1970. The Commonwealth's contribution is $105,000 and the amount to be spent overall is more than $250,000. I understand that the works will be concentrated on drains and levee construction. I do not have as close a knowledge of these creeks as does the honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  although I can remember spending many happy weeks on the Clarence looking at the flood mitigation scheme. The Minister for the Environment has stated that there is no intention to vary the Act or its method of operation, but the opportunity to say a few words on flood mitigation in general should not be let pass. 
The 3 creeks are a part of a progressive submission from the New South Wales State Government and, as honourable members are aware, that is the State which is responsible for the design works and the nomination of these projects, in conjunction with the relevant local authority. Funding is shared by the 3 levels of government. The scheme is a good example of what can be achieved by cooperation. There have been 2 programs of Federal aid. The first was for the 1963-69 period and the second for the 1969-76 period. One of the rivers prescribed in the Act is the Shoalhaven which is in my electorate and in which a close interest was taken by the former honourable member for Macarthur. The Commonwealth contribution to the mitigation of floods in the valley of the Shoalhaven will be of the order of $1.7m by 1976. A conference on flood mitigation will be held in Nowra on 15th May and 16th May and I anticipate that new proposals for measures of government assistance will come from its deliberations. 
The scheme has been successful in the Shoalhaven valley but there are some measures which will greatly expand the effectiveness of that scheme at little cost. I think they should be canvassed on this occasion to ascertain the possible value of such measures to the other prescribed river floodplains in the scheme. The maximum time for inundation of the floodplain of the Shoalhaven with major floods is about 5 days with the remaining water after that time being present only in the semi-permanent back swamps. The morphology of the floodplain and the construction of flood mitigation levees and protecting rock banks is such that large basins are now protected from other than the so-called 50 year flood and internal water catchment in the basins themselves. The floodplain of the Shoalhaven contains 11 swampy areas or basins and some of them can now readily be brought into greater production by the use of large capacity vortex or radial pumps to discharge rapidly accumulated water and internally collected water. It will also prove economic to use pumps for the discharge of water associated with minor floods by using pumps associated with existing works. With accurate and predictable water removal control the lower lying areas become particularly attractive for crop production and pasture usage. 
This seems to me to be a logical extension of flood mitigation schemes and, as drainage is very much allowable under the terms of the Act, it would appear that if the State Government agreed to these proposals the Commonwealth could not refuse. I am very sure that exceptionally favourable benefit cost ratios will be found for many of the present semipermanent swamp areas of our flood plains if they can be drained. I fully realise that wildlife would have to be taken into consideration with some swamps on the floodplains and in regard to some of the prescribed rivers. But there are just as many other areas in which this consideration would not apply.  n  small drainage union of land holders on the Shoalhaven flood-plain has already demonstrated the economics of a small vortex pump but it is beyond their ability to raise the capital for a pump for the larger swamps. One farmer recently gained $35,000 by producing rye grass seed on what formerly was swamp. The water table in this area is generally 2 feet below the usual level in the drains. The Shoalhaven Shire Council, which is the administering authority in this area, has been carrying out surveys into this matter and the preliminary results have been very favourable. Local farmers have already demonstrated that pasture species with a high tolerance to water can be established provided the water can be removed within a period of days beyond the major inundation period. Water couch, for example, can stand inundation for one to two months at certain times of the year. The sort of pumps we have in mind would have to be capable of discharging about 180 cusecs. It has been estimated that a pump of this sort would cost about $46,000. The productivity of dairy farms adjoining the swamps would be greatly increased and, in view of the fact that there is a dairy reconstruction scheme operating in Australia, it can be argued that a small outlay of Commonwealth money on one farm would increase the average living area of the farm, thereby increasing more viable farming units. 
The other major area of flood mitigation which could well merit further investigation with a view to a logical extension of the scheme centres on the neglected state of river estuaries. The State governments are limited in the work that they can do to construct breakwaters to prevent sand drift and silt accumulation in the delta. The Shoalhaven Heads, for example, used to provide an escape for the waters of the Shoalhaven but now only open for a major flood. The opening of the heads and the construction of a breakwater at this point would greatly mitigate the effects of flooding on the flood plain as there have been situations in which the level of the blockage of the heads has determined the level and the consequences of the flood. For example, the pushing of water up Broughton Creek is entirely dependent on this. Although each flood-plain has its own morphology it seems to me that this aspect of mitigation should be more closely examined. Shoalhaven Heads has now become Shoalhaven Bay and it will shortly become Shoalhaven Flat unless some work is undertaken in this area. I commend the amending Bill to the House and I trust that logical extensions of the scheme will be reviewed when they come forward. 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen the open letter addressed to  him in the 'National Times' quoting the case of a migrant who, it is alleged, was trapped by a particularly pernicious home buying deal? What action has the Minister taken to end such exploitation of newcomers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the ABC examined the possibility of publishing a journal similar to the 'Listener', published by the BBC. 
What would be the estimated cost of such a publication on (a) a weekly basis, (b) a fortnightly basis and (c) a monthly basis. 
Will the Minister request the ABC to undertake production of an Australian 'Listener', if necessary on a trial basis of 12 months. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the details of (a) the names and number of doctors who have been referred to the Medical Services Committee of Inquiry through misuses of the Pensioner Medical Service and (b) those doctors who have been investigated through breaches in other areas of his responsibility during each of the last 5 years. 
What was (a) the specific breach, (b) the amount of money involved and (c) the action taken by the Department to discipline the doctor and/or recover the money involved in each case. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What proportion of the rises In the costs  of  home building was attributed to on site labour costs during the last (a) 6 and (b) 12 months. 
Is it a fact that the price of roof tiles recently rose by 12 per cent and that this increase followed  a  19 per cent increase some 12 months ago. 
By what percentage have the costs of the following building supplies risen in the last 12 months: (a) plumbing and electrical hardware, (b) timber, (c) bricks, (d) aluminium sashes, and (e) roofing (iron and aluminium). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has the ABC studied the form and structure of the BBC Complaints Commission? 
If so, does the ABC consider that a similar commission would serve a valuable public service in respect of its own programs, especially those relating to current affairs? 
If so, what were the conclusions? 
If not, will the Minister give consideration to the establishment of a body comparable to the BBC Complaints Commission to operate in respect of complaints concerning programs broadcast by the ABC. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Does the ABC's 'Guidelines for Current Affairs' stipulate that a person interviewed has the right in extreme circumstances subsequently to withdraw his permission for the interview tobe broadcast? 
Ifso, on what occasions between 2nd May 1972and 2nd December 1972 waspermission to broadcast an interview withdrawn? 
Who were the individuals involved? 
On which occasions was the request (a) granted and (b) refused? 
Who was responsible for making each decision? 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Hasthe Minister's attention been drawn to the difficult situation smaller stock feed manufacturers face in securing supplies of bran, pollard and meatmeal. 
On what basis is the price of flour fixed for home consumption. 
On what basis is the price of mill offals fixed. (4)Is it a fact that prices of up to $43.00 per metric ton are being charged for bran and pollard by mills in a favoured position for the same products whose quoted price is  $33.50  (bran) and $35.50 (pollard) per metric ton. (5)Do flour millers who manufacture stock feed cost bran and pollard into their feed at $52.00 per on. 
How many flour mills have ceased operation in Australia in the last (a) 12 months and (b) 5 years. 
How many tons of meatmeal were (a) exported and (b) consumed locally in stock feed manufacture in 1971-72. 
Are increases in the price of wheat passed on entirely into the price of flour when millers adjust prices. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Australians are there on the staff of the South Pacific Commission. 
Who are they, and in what positions are they employed. 
What are their respective qualifications. 
Is the salary of each paid by the Commission or directly from Australia. 
How long has each of them been employed by the Commission. 
How many Australians have been employed in the Commission's work since 1960. 
What was the cost of their salaries and allowances during that period. 
What was Australia's total contribution to the Commission during the same period. 
No piece of legislation so far presented to this Parliament is of more significance than this one to my electorate. The issues that this legislation is directly related to will determine more than any others the quality of life for the overwhelming majority of Australians in our urban areas. And it is to the urban areas and regions that this Government is so concerned to give a new focus in the various planning structures, financial arrangements and areas o( policy-making. The greatest work of man is the building of cities. To build is to plan. Each of the 4 major urban functions - housing, work, transport and recreation - are capable of being planned, but in Australia their individual patterns, relationships and interrelationships have hitherto been determined primarily by the market and by the accidents of history. The political institutions of our country may be classed among the accidents of history, for even when we have deliberately set up institutions as a deliberate exercise, and particularly in the case of the Commonwealth Constitution, we have seen that they cannot and have not been able to cope with urban planning. A social scientist,  Sir Geoffrey  Vickers, recently warned: 
Two doubts seem to shadow the future working of our political institutions. One concerns the institutions needed to make any policy appropriate in scale to the needs of our situation; the other concerns the institutions needed to implement any such policy. Both stem from the increasing complexity of our situation, the increasing speed and unpredictability of its changes and the increasing time-lag needed to make any effective response. Both are enhanced, as well as relieved, by the increasing refinement of the tools which we are evolving to meet our needs. These seem to be blurring the division of function traditionally drawn between policy-making and planning by magnifying functions which fall between the two. 
Although he was referring to the British example and although we have an even more complex political situation, what he said is true and what the Government is setting out to do is to tackle policy at the right scale and to provide a means of implementation. Planning must reflect social aims. In the cities of Sydney and Melbourne, given no determined desire to plan for the whole south-east of 
Australia, one can expect that they will have to add 5 or 6 million people to their total population by the year 2000. Albury-Wodonga and other urbanisation may syphon off one million people by the year 2000 in much the same way as Canberra is now syphoning off some of the growth of Sydney and Melbourne. Even so, most of those 5 or 6 million people will have to be fitted in or around the existing city frameworks which will continue through this period. 
One can define at least 4 kinds of urban growth patterns which will have to be dealt with by the 3 tiers of government in Australia apart from the marginal work that can be done in urban rehabilitation. The 4 patterns are: new towns in town; new towns; old towns expanded; and possibly paired towns. The electorate of Macarthur encompasses the Campbelltown-Camden section of the southwest corridor as defined by the New South Wales State Planning Authority's Sydney Regional Outline Plan. It is claimed that it is the largest new city project in both size and time scale ever undertaken anywhere. The electorate also includes the southern extension of the Wollongong-Port Kembla city area in suburbs such as Dapto, Albion Park and Shellharbour where accelerated urban development is now taking place. The present population of the Campbelltown-Camden area exceeds 33,000 and a population increase of 470,000 is proposed for the year 2000. The phasing of this growth hopes to achieve a population of 185,000 by 1980- but I doubt that this will be achieved by that time, 370,000 by 1990 and nearly half a million by the end of the planning period. 
Some idea of the magnitude of this growth can be stressed by looking at the demand for just one item - education. Thirty-six per cent ; of the population in the Campbelltown city 1 area are under 14 years of age. By 1980, if  projections hold, there will be an additional requirement for 56 primary schools, 23 secondary schools and at least 1,300 places for students at the tertiary level. A great deal of planning has been done in the Campbelltown area and this goes back to the days of the County of Cumberland. State and local government are combining well to plan in co-ordination the suburb of Macquarie Fields and Commonwealth assistance is essential for such areas in the future. What this Bill is about is the setting up of a structure that will help. ' 
We should all be clear on the implications of this Bill. The Cities Commission does not just represent a restructuring of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. NURDA was replaced and boosted by the Government in December 1972 when the Department of Urban and Regional Development was created. The existing structure of NURDA is being transformed by its creation into a commission that will work closely with the Department in the manner decribed by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in his second-reading speech. NURDA no longer exists in isolation. The Cities Commission will exist in close harmony with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The functions of the Commission will be to conduct studies of regions, play a key role in the establishment of new cities, act as the major consultant to the Department in physical planning exercises with respect to old and new cities, to provide a fund of consultants and to liaise with other levels of government. 
I have spoken of the magnitude of the problem we are faced with and the need for planning structures to be set up at an adequate level. In the Government's view the former NURDA was not adequate for the task that the nation faces. If a regional approach for Australia is properly defined it is likely that the National Capital Development Commission, given its manifest success, could be regarded as a regional planning authority that could cope with many of the range of planning problems before us. Canberra is a new town and most of our planning will be in the context of new towns or old towns expanded. The skills built up in the NCDC will be one of the greatest resources available to the Cities Commission. The Cities Commission will be able to commission NCDC to carry out projects and a'.so and most importantly, to build bridges and co-operate with State and local planning authorities, of which. the New South Wales State Planning Authority is a major body and has considerable expertise. Co-operation and coordination is the name of the game. I am encouraged by comments of prominent people at a recent builders conference. They said, and we all know, that the State governments desire this help from the Federal Government. They said that, by definition, if we are faced with this population expansion by the year 2,000 the resources will be available. The previous NURDA was entirely limited by the fact of Treasury dominance and an overdelayed birth. It was only an advising group and the studies commissioned may well have been wasted unless there was a government prepared to act in urban affairs. We are not simply changing the name. The Cities Commission is now a body linked to a department which will be a strong department. Although the studies carried out by the previous NURDA are still under wraps, they were conceived as excessively physical, that is, for example, engineering feasibility studies. 
Some comments have been made on the respective roles of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Cities Commission. It is important that there be discussions by qualified people.- It is more important that there be discussions by the many people and bodies concerned for some time with planning as an art and that now we have a government committed to planning, for discussion to centre on the priorities with respect to the forms of planning. What the Government intends in the relationship between the Department and the Commission is quite novel for Australian planning practice. We do not propose that the most sustained work will necessarily be done by the Department but that the Commission will essentially concentrate its expertise on the physical aspects of planning. The desirable social, economic and political goals will be placed where they should be - with the people, their representatives, the Ministry and the Parliament. The Department will be the overall policy maker. It will present to Government a range of alternatives and costs and above all the necessary co-ordination. It will state the rules by which the game should be played, so that the goal will be achieved. 
The past practice has been for too much planning in Australia to be concentrated in physical planning terms, such as land use or engineering surveys. This has resulted in planning authorities which have neither bad authority or been able to implement their plans. There has been no real power. The interface between planners and people has not been humane and the only sublimation has been frustration. That the Commission will prevent frustration and that the relationship of the Commission to the Department will be a living one is at the core of and is the strength of this Bill. 
The Commission will be created as a specialist body with the Department emerging as a planning authority with broader bases of interest in planning than anything previously created in Australia. Many people are saying that we are acting too fast in too many areas. The simple fact with respect to urban planning and the problems of the cities on which the Government concentrated in the recent election campaign, is that there is great urgency. The pressure for action in my electorate is immense. Australia has been the most urbanised new nation since 1890. The United States of America and Canada, for example, did not catch up until well into the 1920s and later. The urgency for action' is compounded by the neglect of past governments and the problems of State governments in mobilising adequate finance and resources. As it takes 41 to 5 years to produce a block of residential land in the Australian Capital Territory, where there is a proper planning body, it is very apparent that immediate action must be taken in the fringes of existing city areas,' particularly Sydney and Melbourne. 1 now wish to relate what I have said more specifically to the Campbelltown-Camden area and in general to the south-west corridor of Sydney. It is a natural region in terms of any definition for approach to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. A master plan has been completed and awaits implementation. The decision by the Commonwealth to re-examine land availability in the Menai-Holsworthy area caused some delay in the New South Wales State Planning Authority releasing its strategic plan for the development of the area overall. The National Capital Development Committee acted as an agency of the Department of Urban and Regional Development to look at the corridor and to suggest ways in which the Commonwealth could most rapidly assist. The implications of an East Hills to Glenfield rail link also complicate the picture. Holsworthy is seen as a crash program to help ease the acute backlog in low cost housing in the metropolitan area. I have little doubt that the report of the National Capital Development Committee which was prepared in close consultation with the State Planning Authority will come up with the same sort of planning conclusions - an enormous amount of work has already been done - and that it will also concur in respect of the phasing of growth. 
I would assume that the Commonwealth has now been presented with a series of recommendations involving a range of costs and that, given the priorities being set by the Department, except in the one set for coordination, will be able to proceed. However, I doubt that there is any way that Commonwealth land will be able to be released quickly, given the development time required, even on land which it owns and which can be developed quicker, lt is essential that work proceed on plans already set out in the considered hope that aspects of overall coordination can rapidly catch up. 
It has been lack of co-ordination and direction in Government spending which has been the main limit on private development in the Campbelltown area. The Lend Lease Corporation is developing the largest private estate in Australia in that area and the economic limits to its operations have been set in demand terms by the state of the market, that is, the amount that people can afford, and in supply terms particularly by the rate at which the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board can  supply  water and sewerage, particularly sewerage. One of the priorities of this Government is to see that loan funds at better rates of interest will be made available to semi-government authorities, such as the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board. The Lend Lease Corporation cannot develop land faster than the constraints placed upon it. It needs to have a supply of land to program its activities but too often delays in the release of land - cause it to accrue speculative profits which it does not wish to set out to make. Although I consider land for lease is a desirable means of placing land within the reach of many, it is essential that those able to afford to buy developed land at cost should be allowed to do so. 
Planning itself will bring down costs once services can be phased in. Sound planning can operate under either the leasehold or the freehold system, or a combination of both, provided that there is a strong planning organisation. It seems to me that the best way to handle the development of an area such as the south-west corridor of Sydney is by a development corporation which is present on the site. Spade work and social priorities set by the relevant Commonwealth, State and local government authorities will concentrate on the factors of physical planning, finance, politics and management. I consider only a development corporation can handle all those factors once the real work has to be done. The corporation may consist of any number of people but must be headed by a very' competent person or a small group. 
It seems logical to me in the case of Campbelltown and Camden - which is, in American terms, either a free new town or possibly an old town expanded - that there be representatives of local government, business, unions and academics on the corporation in a board role with a manager heading the board, with a staff composed of personnel from the various State and local agencies. I cannot stress too strongly the role of management. Co-operation at all levels of government is essential and is constantly being stressed by this Government. There is an enormous need for co-operation between the relative departments, the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Department of Transport. Urban transport is one. of the key factors in the development of the CampbelltownCamden area. State and local government authorities have been calling for assistance. Assistance is being offered, but first we must set up the structures which can rationally co-operate with them. 
The reason why I am of the opinion that there is a need for a strong manager or team for each development corporation is that it has been demonstrated in the United States and the United Kingdom that success depends ultimately on jobs. The more rapidly a project becomes economically viable the more rapidly social institutions can be set up with respect to the detailed planning. Such social institutions must set out to avoid mistakes of other large housing projects and must include very basic human amenities such as corner shops, shopping centres, transport nodes and child care centres open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. to care for the children of working mothers. In May 1969 there were 413,900 families in Australia with children under 12 without a parent during working hours. There is also need for special facilities for handicapped children. There is a great need for social workers in the towns and cities themselves. Industries must be attracted to the Campbelltown area and better commuter facilities must be provided. A local manager of a development corporation would be better able to promote industrialisation. 
On the commuter problem, I am yet to be convinced that the New South Wales Railways cannot provide an inter-urban rail service direct to Sydney. The Southern Aurora and other expresses are programmed direct through the metropolitan rail network and it would seem a reasonable proposition that a train servicing Campbelltown could follow or precede one of these express trains in the morning or evening. An immediate measure that can be taken, should be taken and possibly will be recommended to the Government is that telephone charges in the Campbelltown area be levied at Sydney rates. It is essential that they be made at Sydney rates. But there is another way out of the problem. This measure could best be carried out by a specific subsidy to the corporation for telephone subscribers and industries in the corridor. There are many other immediate measures which can be implemented and which have been planned. These include work to start on a technical college, a university - perhaps an open university - a hospital and through town by-passes. Land has been acquired and planning has been made for the Oxley Street by-pass. 
Although I have spoken mainly on my electorate, I want to conclude on a general note with respect to urban and regional planning. Many of us would like to marry 12 pretty girls but most of us can handle only one woman. We must concentrate resources on a few cities or regions or nothing will be achieved. I support the Bill with all my heart. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What  was  the value  of  Australian  aid to  the Cook Islands from the date  of  independence  to  31st December 1972. 
What form did this aid take. 
Which Australian private agencies  in  receipt of financial support from the Australian Government are active  in  the Cook Islands. 
Can he say what assistance these agencies have given to the Cook Islands from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What was the extent of Australian Government assistance to these agencies. 
asked the Minister for Foreign  Affairs,  upon notice: 
What was the value of Australian aid to Tonga from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What form did this aid take. 
Which Australian private agencies in receipt of financial support from the Australian Government are active in Tonga. 
Can he say what assistance these agencies have given to Tonga from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What was the extent of Australian Government assistance to these agencies. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the value of Australian aid to Western Samoa from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What form did this aid take. 
Which Australian private agencies in receipt of financial support from the Australian Government are active in Western Samoa. 
Can he say what assistance these agencies have given to Western Samoa from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What was the extent of Australian Government assistance to these agencies. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the value of Australian aid to Fiji from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What form did this aid take. 
Which Australian private agencies in receipt of financial support from the Australian Government are active in Fiji. 
Can he say what assistance these agencies have given to Fiji from the date of independence to 31st December 1972. 
What was the extent of Australian Government assistance to these agencies. 
I am a little disappointed that the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  still seeks to justify the past Government's attitude on this matter. It is apparent that he still has not fully grasped the magnitude of this issue. Although the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in his second reading speech said that this Bill is not a complex one, it is also accurate to say that it is a very important and profound one from the point of view of the national interest. The Government has constantly stated that the resources of Australia should be in the hands of Australians for the benefit of Australians. The National Pipeline Authority is part of a wider policy now being drawn up in terms of a national fuel and energy policy. We believe that there is a need for an annual fuel and energy budget to be drawn up so that we can discern our own available supplies and requirements and identify our own national interest in the light of the wider international fuel and energy supply and demand situation. 
I have often thought that one of the big differences between the Government Party and honourable members opposite was in the timing of policy action. The previous Government would move when shoved, when action could no longer be decently avoided and when the issue was largely something that had passed by. But I am staggered by the degree to which laissez-faire policies had gone in respect of oil and gas exploration and development and what was potentially to be given away by way of exports. The amount of public investment in oil and natural gas exploration has been of the order of $419m, nearly half of all moneys spent. Yet no Australian share was sought and in many cases little control was exercised in respect of maintaining provisions of agreements. The potential gross value of discoveries so far made, on a conservative basis, exceeds $14 billion. Again it seems likely that the previous Government would have allowed the export of much of the natural gas component of this without ever having identified the national interest. 
The 6,000 miles of proposed pipeline will not be built immediately. It does not really matter whether private funds or public funds are used for the construction of the pipeline. The money will be found. It is simply a question of efficiency. Australia currently produces between 60 and 70 per cent of its oil requirements. Without further discoveries it will be producing only 40 per cent in 5 years time and by 1980 less than a quarter. There  is  a strong case for further exploration, but there is little sense in pouring public funds into exploration when discoveries are simply to be exported. Of course, oil exports are banned but given enough reserves of gas and given declining international reserves, it may well pay to convert natural gas into petroleum in a very short space of time. Developing a national fuel and energy policy will be mainly about doing our sums and finding out what the facts are so that we can act rationally. If we have only 45 trillion cubic feet of natural gas it is necessary to work out just what our requirements are. Estimates vary widely. On present usage we have plenty, but these are only early days in terms of our usage. If we extrapolate Melbourne usage to the national scene and look at the consumption patterns of other countries, it can be calculated that we have only 11 years supply. It is near certain that usage of gas will rise by more than 45 per cent by 1980. The greatest benefits of a national grid will be that charges will be uniform, that decentralisation into centres will be facilitated sooner and that a cheaper fuel resource will underpin Australian industry, perhaps will prevent rises in the costs of some of our basic industrial products such as cement, glass and steel products, and also will provide raw material for some chemical industries. 
The natural gas industry is commonly divided into 3 functional divisions - production, transmission and distribution. The Government wishes to be marginally involved in production and totally involved in transmission, but to have little interest in distribution. All other countries effect some form of regulation of the industry in the way in which the Government proposes. In the United States of America the Federal Power Commission has jurisdiction over the interstate transportation of natural gas and over the sale of natural gas in interstate commerce for resale. Although various areas of authority are still poorly defined in the United States, there is the rational desire for Federal control and evaluation of national interest in that country. 
The Japanese and United States energy crisis has been canvassed widely. It has been estimated that United States imports of oil and natural gas will be worth of the order of $30 billion in 1985. Japan's consumption of oil will double from 300 million tons in 1975 to 600 million tons 10 years later. Japan and the United States are combining to develop Siberian oil and gas in their own long term interest and, one assumes, that of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It is clear that Australia and Canada will be heavily involved in the requirements of the United States and Japan. There is a case to say that Australia and Canada cannot be too unwilling or indecisive about supplying natural energy resources because their very lucrative markets may be lost to more agreeable energy resource suppliers, to new energy technology or to energy rationing programs and these markets may be hard to redeem. But there is no urgency. The price of these commodities must increase. All this reinforces my belief that the Commonwealth must be involved, that we must develop policies, that we must identify our own interests and that we must do our sums. 
The international scheme of arrangements with respect to the oil industry, which is the biggest industry, must be more fully understood. Some writers are now suggesting that the United States may not face an energy crisis for 15 years and that there may not be a major foreign policy problem for the United States if that country follows less inept policies. For example, Adelman, writing in 'Foreign Policy No. 9 1972-73', builds up a case to the effect that the interest of the State Department in stability has maintained a monopoly price for oil some 10 to 20 times higher than the long run incremental cost of producing oil. If the United States and the other major consuming countries achieve a rationalisation of international oil trade, perhaps we will have another set of facts to deal with. 
Our own foreign policy must be subservient to domestic policy, but first we must have a domestic policy. This matter needs our earnest consideration. A continuance of a laissez-faire policy, which our opponents proclaim, would leave us like babes in the wood. What the previous Government did not do to look after its own natural resources would make the hair of any self-respecting Australian stand on end. The mistakes made in the coal industry would have continued to be made in the natural gas industry.  Dr Joseph  Barnea. director of the United Nations resources department, recently stated that what the United States faces now is 'not a crisis of resources, but a lack of planned development'. Instead of placing too many eggs in the still problematical nuclear energy basket, Barnea urges recourse to a variety of long term alternatives, from refineries for low sulphur coal to research into solar and geo-thermal energy. He says: 
The lesson to be learned from the United States' problems is that every nation must pursue a carefully planned program for energy development. Failing that, the crisis will be all too real for every country. 
Now other countries are waking up to the magnitude of this problem. Thankfully we have a Minister who is aware of and determined to identify Australia's interests. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What is the composition of the staff servicing the Royal Commission into the Post Office. 
Have any people other than public servants been recruited to service the Commission. 
If so (a) what are their qualifications, (b) from where were they recruited and (c) what salary and allowances do they receive. 
What are the salaries of the public servants who are servicing the Commission. 
With a name like 'Kerin', I too must confess to not being a Dutchman. I seem to recall studying political geography for a post-graduate degree at a university during which I studied at one stage the whole problem of boundaries and frontiers and all the sorts of problems which go with definition and which the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has just outlined. I still do not think that those problems are beyond resolution or negotiation with the States. As I understand it, the Bill does not preclude such negotiation and cooperation. What this Bill is about is the concept of sovereignty, and little else. I think that co-operation and all the small legalisms and definitions can be resolved quite easily once we resolve the big point of sovereignty. 
It would appear that, after 3 years of sustained intelligent policy protection, the day of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  finally has come. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has been only too happy to be able to give substance to the policy, as it always has been the policy of the Australian Labor Party. The present Bill incorporates the 2 Gorton Bills of 1970 and adds some provisions with respect to royalties. Examination of the record of the debates on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and the Press reports of the time reveals that nearly everything that could be said on this vital matter has been said. The attitude of the Opposition to the Bill is now largely a national one. It is a pity that the nettle was not grasped sooner. 
It is important that doubts as to sovereign control with respect to the seabed, resources, the territorial sea and fisheries be resolved. All fishermen in my electorate and on the coast of New South Wales generally are vitally interested in this Bill. Put succinctly, in an age when the law of the sea is undergoing challenge and development, when there is a pressing need to speak with one voice at international conference tables, when nations are expanding their commercial interests and spheres of territorial control and hegemony, when archipelago nations are making even more complicated claims and when technology is opening up potentials in resource discovery and extraction which hitherto have been impossible, it is simply intolerable that doubt as to sovereignty between the Commonwealth and the States should persist. The Minister has stated that all existing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States will persist but that the Government is of the firm belief that ultimate control should reside in the national Government for the benefit of all Australians. 
Despite the engulfing legality which surrounds the point of contention, I believe that the State governments are not at all concerned for the legal rights of their States but simply for the revenue that may accrue from the royalties consequent on any discoveries off their coast. With respect to coal in particular, the States have not acted as national commercial maximisers of the royalties that would and should be available, and often have neglected their duty in the quest for funds. The question of adequate royalties is of staggering complexity. Only recently has it been apparent that the United' Kingdom has made far from optimum arrangements with respect to royalties for natural gas. This is not always simply a function of ineptitude; often it is more a reflection of the problem of Commonwealth-State financial arrangements. Our States have boundaries chosen largely by the accidents of history. Although I believe that industry and population should locate at points of the most optimal economy, I do not believe that States should be allowed to be at too great a disadvantage due to the fact of having no off-shore resources. 
The national Parliament has the charter to govern for all Australians, not merely to adjust regional inequalities due to the particular consequences of varying rates of economic growth or economic endowment. The Queensland Government has shown that it is not prepared to act nationally or responsibly with respect to the border with New Guinea and although I do not challenge its right to contest what we see as the national position on this question, what we are saying is that the legality needs to be cleared up and we believe that the High Court is really the place to clear it up. My opinion, of course, is that Australia should negotiate with New Guinea over this boundary. 
All that this Bill is about is sovereignty. Commonwealth and State laws are in conflict. But even with respect to revenue, this Bill does not seek to oust the States as far as revenue is concerned. What it does is assert the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to these resources and to police, protect and exploit them - in terms of royalties - in the interests of the nation. Compromise, negotiation and agreement are not excluded and in most instances 1 believe that the States will accrue greater revenue. The agreement between Australia and Indonesia on the Timor border was reached after negotiation which involved the Western Australian Government. But at all stages of that negotiation doubts persisted and the previous Government was limited in its ability to negotiate. Other nations with which we compare ourselves have had their law clarified, for example, Canada, and in its case this has been of particular importance as far as fisheries have been concerned. In Australia no one is sure which laws Australian or foreign fishermen may be breaking. The Gulf of Carpentaria is still a. major area of concern with, respect to fisheries and the Great Barrier Reef is of particular concern with respect to fisheries and territorial Some LI, 000 ships visit our shores every year and with increasingly large oil tankers the risk of massive pollution, increases, yet we are. still uncertain as to which authority is responsible .for thepolicing or interpretation of Australian law and international law. 
My speech can only be a summary at this stage. I am alarmed that some divisions exist among honourable members opposite, particularly with respect to State rights. It is only these that we wish to clarify. Although I can profess no great understanding of some of the legal points being made, I cannot help but feel that if all problems are not solved by this Bill it will at least be a massive leap forward. I cannot really see what the problems of the courts of other countries with different constitutions have to do with us. We do not think the problems are unsolvable. I support the Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the size and composition of the staff servicing the Vernon Committee of Enquiry into the Economy. 
Were any people other than members of the Public Service recruited to serve the Committee. 
If so, (a) what were their qualifications and (b) from where Were theyrecruited. 
What were the classifications of the public servants who serviced the Enquiry. 
The Bills before the House amend the principal Wool Industry Act and declare the necessary provisions to incorporate financial arrangements for wool promotion, research and the cost of administering the Australian Wool Corporation in 1973-74. lt has been decided to continue the involvement of the Government in this matter for one year only rather than the expected triennium so that the feasibility of longer term commitments by the Government can be examined. As a former economic research officer on wool marketing I am of the definite opinion that research programs must be given a longer guarantee than the present 3 years and that assessment of the value of promotion of wool must be looked at critically and constructively. The years 1971 and 1972 saw the loss of many scientists and research officers in the rural industries where research was dependent on industry funds. It is important that the skills and services of such highly qualified people be fully utilised and that the future of such people be given a greater degree of stability. 
There has been criticism that the Government should not have raised the level of wool growers' contribution by one per cent but the tax will be now at the same level as in 1970-71. The Commonwealth contribution last year amounted to $27m and I know of no other industry where this sort of money is spent on promotion by the Government. It is equivalent to the amount spent on the subsidisation or stabilisation of the entire Australian dairy industry. Forms of primary production that I was engaged in raised all promotional funds from the farmers themselves. If estimates of the receipts for wool for the present season hold, the wool cheque will be more than double that of last year. It will be the second highest cheque on record even with a staggering drop of one million bales in supply and the receipts of many individual wool growers are quadruple that of last season's depending on what time in the season they sold. 
I was delighted the other night to meet a friend from the electorate of Wannon who received an average of 300c per kilo for his wool this year, compared to an average of 75c last year. Although some organisations have expressed concern at the Government's move all growers I have spoken to can see the reason for our action in asking growers to contribute partially to the promotion of their own product. Given that wool will continue to possess a diminishing percentage share of the world textile market - and hereby will be subject to continuous fluctuations in price - and given that it will probably always be feasible for government to place a floor price under the market and given that it will be near impossible for government to place a ceiling on the market price I believe that most growers appreciate the need partially to finance promotion and research in the industry's interests. 
The only thing that can be said with a degree of certainty about wool prices is that they have been and will continue to be random. We know something of the factors governing demand but the best description of future market behaviour is that as fashion is one of the major parameters, the future demand may ultimately be given by the whims of the weather and the woman's mind. As fluctuations in price will continue it seems to me that it would be better for government to guarantee a percentage of promotion and research funds and to adjust its further contribution according to the fluctuations in the contributions of the producers, and it seems to me that this should occur in definitional terms for periods of 5 years. It may be appropriate to make a few comments on price projections for wool. The projection for wool prices involves 2 main operations: (a) the determination of the quantitative structure relationship within the market and measurement from historical data of the impact of various supply and demand influences on wool prices; and (b) the projection to the future of the changes in this structure and in these influences and the consequent calculations of the net impact of these changes on price. Research has analysed many aspects of the world market for wool and has identified many of the major elements influencing changes in the level of wool prices. Most work has centred on attempting to quantify the impact on wool prices and changes in factors such as wool supply and demand influences, tastes, population, competition from substitute fibres, industrial activity, size of wool stocks, movement in future markets for tops, end use of fibres, inter fibre competition, wool industries in consuming countries and aspects of the international wool trade including such matters as the United States tariff. 
More sophisticated econometric studies have also recently been carried out but no matter how sophisticated and general in coverage all projections of price suffer from a number of limitations. As a result any price prediction of the world wool market must inevitably include a substantial component of subjective assessment and this all probably boils down to the simple fact that the market is still so complex as to defy accurate analysis due to the demand for wool being a derived demand and that wool as a durable industrial raw material typically undergoes a long and complicated manufacturing process. Some work has been done on the value of wool promotion to the industry but I am still not convinced that we are spending wisely, and this view is shared by many in the industry. I often think that money spent on marketing research would pay greater dividends than promotion and that the promotional budget thereby could be better spent in this way. It is all right to say that people now recognise the wool mark but recognition is no guarantee of a desire or ability to purchase. Perhaps a pair of socks for every Chinese is more important than for wool to be identified with high fashion. In the current period of high wool prices it well may be valid to say that promotional money is being wasted. Although this situation is difficult to avoid, given the need for an ongoing program there does seem some need to ensure that surpluses arising out of increased industry contributions due to a rising market in one year should not simply be spent for the sake of advertising. Such funds would be better placed in reserve for the next annual budget and mention of this matter has been made by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  in introducing these Bills. 
The Bills of course are part of the decisions of government with respect to the wool industry which are of a continuous and parallel nature in adapting to the changing rate of innovation or possibly the opportunities for innovation in the industry. For too long innovation was stymied by just about every group within the industry - growers, brokers, buyers, rural organisations and governments and a vast system of alibis developed whereby each group blamed the other for lack of progress. As a former public servant I will not betray information gleaned by virtue of my job other than to say that I was often sympathetic to the problems of the Ministers of the day in trying to effect change but at other times very critical of them and other groups within the industry. The collapse of wool prices in 1971-72 coupled with the disastrous drought made growers and buyers very much aware of the need for change, and this plus the spur of private buying induced the brokers to accelerate adaptation, innovation, and flexibility in selling systems based largely on objective measurement. Flexibility or choice must remain at the core of the wool selling systems but even with accurate specification of all wool parameters the auction system, to my mind, has a fair way to go before it can be totally replaced. The current situation of the world wool shortage points to the advantages of auction whereby scarce supplies of wool can be allocated to the world requiring it. The Australian Wool Corporation is the most powerful organisation the industry has ever had by way of a marketing authority. It has the power to acquire the clip given the concurrence of all State governments. Although I critically contest the past Government's action in appointing the board of the Corporation immediately prior to the election and although critical of some decisions since, particularly with respect to testing contracts and the relationship to IWTO, I believe that the strength of the Corporation will ultimately depend on the strength of the administrative divisions within it and the quality of its advice and research. Now that it has the power, it is no sense running to government or the industry through the Australia Wool Industry Con ference every time it has a problem. This is only getting back to the alibi approach and the situation whereby previous governments could fob off decisions. 
The Corporation will soon be making some specific recommendations on marketing and a broader statement of desirable goals. The Corporation is still a very conservative organisation. I can see little by way of a specific recommendation to Government other than with respect to a lot building plan. It is this and other unknowns in the market that lead me to believe that the Corporation does not currently have the desire or the ability to acquire the entire clip and that as far as acquisition is concerned that it should proceed in stages, possibly voluntarily, where technical feasibility is present giving proven cost benefits to growers and where the Corporation can back its buying with confident marketing techniques. 
Acquisition, if seen as feasible in all ways can be gradually introduced and to my mind gradual introduction would be way ahead of premature action. But 'gradual' could mean only a couple of years. Objective measurement has proved to be a catalyst within the industry, and even if the potential cost savings were not great it is essential for rationalisation of the industry in specifying its product on rational, modern and scientific criteria. There is need in Australia for an independent standards laboratory or authority so that at all times buyer confidence in the accuracy of wool specification can be maintained. It was my pleasure to work in several areas of experimentation with respect to objective measurement and, despite the tactics of some brokers to protect what they saw as their legitimate commercial interest, their co-operation in the main was excellent. Large firms such as Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd, Dalgety Australia Ltd and Australian Mercantile Land and Finance Co. Ltd, and smaller firms such as Grazcos Co-op Ltd, and the Southern Farmers organisation were a pleasure to work with and it is good to see that they are now innovating and seeking to provide flexibility in marketing systems. 
All Queensland wool will be sold on certificate in Sydney in the coming season. Interlotting is being carried out between brokers in the Brisbane centre and many of the co-operative brokers have combined to provide more efficient services to the grower. 
The firm Economic Wool Producers continues to experiment widely and innovate. It has introduced a computer sale by tender system and has shipped from other than the main ports. Grazcos and Compagnie d'Importation de Laines in Western Australia are handling bulk classed wools by more efficient mechanical means and various systems are being tried with respect to lot building. There are moves to amalgamate the rehandling facilities of all firms in each of the storage centres. Although there are still many problems associated with lot building by visual appraisal, the development of portable sonic fineness wool testing equipment will facilitate objective appraisal. I believe that the results of a recent trial at Goulburn have been most encouraging. If driers of wool samples are in situ, a fineness tester will be able to give results within half an hour, lot building will be extremely rapid and the cost will be cut. It is in these areas of wool handling that acquisition - that is 'acquisition' defined as where there would be typing on receival, valuation and 100 per cent payment in a short period, of, say 3 weeks - is both technically feasible and economically desirable. Lot building in some recent trials in Western Australia has increased the average lot size from  5i  bales to 14 bales with 35 per cent of wool being able to be interlotted Experimental results have been much higher. 
There is still a lot of work to be done on the transportation, handling and storage of wool. There may still be one problem with respect to feasibility inasmuch as lot batches may limit the flexibility of mills, but I doubt whether this will be a major problem. The potential for economies in regional handling, transport and storage has not yet been fully explored although the Bureau of Transport Economics did one study and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has some work in hand. The mention of the port of Portland and its difficulties prompts me to state that I consider that this port should be more closely examined for the shipment of large parcels of wool, a necessary precondition for the calling of a ship. There are approximately 560,000 bales of wool produced in an area surrounding Portland which is closer to Portland than to the Adelaide or to Geelong-Melbourne markets. Wool is mainly sent to Melbourne from this district due to the situation of continuous sales. With objective measurement this would not apply. Regional handling in other centres depends on economics and/or the accounting techniques used by existing broker firms but the picture is less clear than it is at Portland where I think a real opportunity exists. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took the opportunity to make several statements on the Government's rural and general policies, I think for political purposes to feed the rural Press with alarmist statements. He has alleged hostility where there is only an attempt at a balanced approach. He has spoken of doctrinaire outsidetheParty views as having influence when the opposite is the fact. The previous Government relied almost entirely on Public Service advice, despite the claim of the Country Party, whereas in this Government it is the members who are given every opportunity to discuss the options before Cabinet. I resent the fact that the Opposition should cast so many aspersions on the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  because he is a senator. The former Government had Senate Cabinet members and to criticise the Minister on these grounds is petty and shows contempt for the Senate. I do not want to be accused of dragging politics into this House of all places, but it may be of relevance to point out to the situation that we have inherited. The rural scene was not perfect despite the presence of a specialist party in Government. Nor could it really have been expected to be so. There are short term problems and long term problems in agriculture that bedevil all governments. But clearly some measures in the past have not worked and need to be reexamined. 
It is natural that with a change of government every group in the industry wishes to consult the Minister and ask for a definitive statement. Once the general priorities, assumptions and studies have been done the Government can map out its outline. However, this is not to say that industry leaders have not been able to see the Minister. He has made it one of this main purposes to see as many national organisations as possible. What the Government inherited in many areas was a series of patch-up jobs caused by he need to act either in a crisis situation or as a result of other pressures. The previous Government was committed to measures with respect to retraining and reconstruction but many of the 8,600 farmers and their families who left the land over the 5 years up to 1971-72 were virtually forced off their land. Retraining schemes have been virtually useless. The percentage contribution of rural industries to the gross national product has been dropping and was down to 5.9 per cent of the gross farm product in 1971-72, and the percentage of Government support has been rising and represented 18 per cent of total farm income in 1971-72. But happily in some rural industries this situation has changed. The reason why blacksmiths and real estate agents do not receive Government assistance is because they can manage without socialistic subsidies. 1 am pleased that the honourable member for Wannon still says that self help is the best way today. 
We claim no great credit but the weather has got a lot better since December, the drought has broken, wool and beef prices have risen dramatically and the prospects for wheat have never been brighter. There was a lot of talk of revaluation compensation and allegations were made that the Government had departed from the principle of compensation for demonstrable and unavoidable losses due to currency movements. However, the critics conveniently forget the fact that after the 1971 devaluation of the United States dollar the then Prime Minister, now the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  made it clear that the dicey system of compensation was out and would be replaced by assistance for industries in difficulties. This is similar to the method we have adopted. In this period of fairly frequent exchange rate alterations it is not feasible to keep up a system of compensation based on rough arithmetic. lt would not only be costly but also endless. The Government believes that the best method is by helping industries in difficulty to adjust to market realities, and that industries enjoying sound returns should be able to bear the consequences. Compensation of the applicable percentage would have had little effect on net grower returns given the return to profitability. To have considered such a small percentage of the total economy as the reason for not revaluing would have been reckless and would have caused even higher rates of inflation. 
Much has also been said about rural reconstruction money being cut in half. When rural reconstruction was commenced in 1971-72, the aim was to provide SI 00m to the States over 4 years, but in 1972-73 it was decided to pay the full amount in only 2 years. We do not dispute the wisdom of this, because the conditions were at a crisis point. When the scheme commenced and into the second year, prices were low, costs were rising, drought was widespread and credit was difficult to obtain. When Labor this year committed S36m to rural reconstruction for 1973-74, the situation was very different. Prices were rising strongly, especially for wool and meat - more than 80 per cent of applicants for rural reconstruction are in the sheep, wheat and sheep and beef areas - the drought had broken and credit was much easier to obtain from commercial sources. In addition, applications for assistance under the scheme had declined significantly, especially for debt reconstruction. This was a reflection of improved conditions in the rural sector where incomes have been rising strongly in 1972-73. 
Part of the problem of reconstruction is that each State agency is semi-autonomous. I have a lot of sympathy for the position of New South Wales; but if that State had spread applications at an even rate until June 1973, as promised by the New South Wales Minister for Lands to the past Government, or if the average amount granted per farmer had been able to be a little less, more assistance could have been given to more farmers. lt is not competent for this Government to say how the State agencies should determine the allocation of moneys, but some people are saying that New South Wales may have been too generous in paying off hard core debts. As I understand it, the New South Wales Minister did not ask for an increased percentage of the funds but simply for more funds. If he wanted $22m for New South Wales, then some $72m would have had to be advanced- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Grants Commission Bill is an element of the Government's policy to restructure the finance of local government and the development of our urban and regional areas. The proposal to have the Grants Commission make 'equalising grants' to local government bodies must be seen in the total context of the Government's proposals in urban and regional affairs. All these measures are due to our basic belief that me Australian Government can no longer ignore the problems of the cities and regional towns. Far-reaching reforms with respect to local government are beyond the financial capacity of the States and local government finance is in a state of stress in most areas. There is a tremendous need for co-ordination of development and administrative programs within the cities, towns and regions. Australian Government directed programs are being implemented in the States in a great variety of. functions such as education, roads and transportation, and health and social security, but hitherto there has been no overall policy attempt that seeks to co-ordinate the work of 
State and local government in urban and regional development. 
The councils that are struggling financially with an inadequate rating base, a booming population - not many of these people, proportionately, are ratepayers - a backlog of unmade streets, inadequate social services and pressure for facilities due to the influx of tourists or unplanned industrial development all need assistance in the way of general purpose revenue grants. Single purpose initiatives by the Commonwealth and State governments in works such as national estate proposals, the sewerage backlog and transportation services will only marginally alleviate the situation of the local governments. The solution to the problem must be found in the best ways available. The Australian Government could make straightforward allocations based on criteria such as population. But this would not distinguish between the various degrees of need. The Grants Commission is a quasi-judicial body that can investigate needs and resources and make recommendations on the level of financial grants that should be made. The Commission, since its inauguration in the 1930s, has proved to provide a sensible and fair way to restore financial equality and, in principle, there seems to be no reason why it should not work equally well with respect to local government. However, the Commission cannot be expected to handle the 900 or so local government bodies and thus the powerful idea of requiring regional groupings or a regional context within individual local government areas is put forward. Although this may be said to make for better administrative ease, there is much to recommend a regional approach to the problem. It is the regional approach which will allow us to help and give local government a wider appreciation of its role. The States are adopting a regional approach as a means of encouraging decentralisation. If the Australian Government is prepared to invite local government to join the partnership and to share in the fiscal responsibilities that are largely controlled at the Australian and State government level it seems not unreasonable for it to seek, insofar as this policy initiative is concerned, an administrative regional organisation of local government bodies that will look at needs unconstrained by what are often irrelevant boundaries. 
The Australian Government realises that it has to pay respect to the existing historical organisational structure of local government. In fact, for statutory reasons there is little alternative, but that should not preclude the Australian Government from asking local government bodies to acknowledge regional groupings. This should not be offensive to local government bodies because many of them are already grouped in a variety of ways, for a variety of functions - for example, regional libraries, social security, administration of justice, refuse disposal and so on. The idea of regional groups is not new to local government people. It has simply been extended for the purposes of the Grants Commission scheme. The requirement for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to approve regional organisations is a discretion that will be exercised democratically and in the light of the Australian Government's concern for the ordinary citizen. 
How the Grants Commission will, in fact, go about its business is simply up to it. The element of patronage simply does not apply. All honourable members must surely be aware of the way many people identify government with local government. The biggest file in my filing cabinet is on local government matters. Local government is the level of government closest to the people and many of the services that are of most immediate concern to the people we represent can be satisfied by local and semi-government bodies, such as the Water Board. My electorate of Macarthur contains 13 of these authorities and for too long they have been crying out for Federal assistance. In many ways the success of this Government will be determined by the success it has in giving local government the means to carry out its many important jobs. This Bill will not be the immediate solution to every local government area's needs, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  clearly stated in his second-reading speech. 
I do not claim that this Bill and the instrumentality it will allow local government to have access to will be without many problems. If a government waits until every problem can be resolved before legislation is introduced I am afraid little legislation will ever be introduced. All legislation is subject to amendment and review and this Bill represents a first attempt by the Commonwealth to grapple with the problems of local govern ment. It may not prove the very best way to help. 
At the outset I said that this Bill related to a range of measures in urban and regional affairs. All of these represent new paths of government endeavur to solve social and economic problems. Innovation in social affairs is a very complex and demanding process and we are all well aware of the problems. There are 4 natural regions in my electorate - but the word 'natural' should be avoided in any definition of a region. There is really no such thing as a definitive regional boundary. It simple depends on what function one is describing as a feature of the region. One can say that the Illawarra region possesses special disabilities with respect to it being a low income region with a poor tax base for the collection of rates and where expenditure per head on services in nearly every public area is below that of the rest of Australia. The south-west corridor, as defined in the Sydney regional outline plan, . is another area that commends itself for definition as a region due to the factors of a booming population and a necessity for increased loan raising at a time when its population is young. The Shoalhaven Shire is a very large shire having all local government services combined in it and possessed of a very competent planning body. It is a regional government in microcosm. Local governments can certainly carry out a good job here. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Does the ABC's 'Guidelines for Current Affairs' stipulate that (a) controversial subjects must be treated with due impartiality with a view to assembling as much information as possible on the subject so that a balanced opinion will be achieved which will better inform the general public, (b) contributions to the discussion of most controversial issues must be balanced over a reasonably short period of time, and on some occasions, depending on the nature of the subject, within the same program, and (c) the achievement of a balance of views must be planned for; it should not be left to chance. 
If so, on how many occasions between 2 May 1972 and 2 December 1972 did the refusal of someone or some organisation prevent coverage of a controversial subject? 
What were the circumstances of each of these occasions? 
Will the Minister ensure that in future these guidelines will not be applied in such a manner that public coverage of a controversial subject is prevented or hindered by a refusal of one party to participate in a program? 
Prior to the interrupting of this debate last night I had been saying that I could see some problems in this Bill but that we are all agreed that local government desperately needs financial assistance. I had spoken on the regions in my electorate that could be proposed for a regional approach to the Grants Commission. Transport links are one of the main problems of the Shoalhaven Shire which are regional in nature. The 4 tablelands councils in Macarthur could also be regarded in a regional context as they have special problems with respect to the pressures of the nearby urban areas and the need for better roads, particularly to the coast. One of the objections some people have had about central funding, that is, from the State or Commonwealth, is the 'he who pays the piper calls the tune'. But this cannot apply, particularly in New South Wales, where councils are used to making approaches to the Local Government Assistance Fund. The council on which I served and those that I know very closely have no objections to making applications for supplementary funds, and in many ways I see the funding of local government assistance funds as an alternative solution to this Bill. 1 also see problems of regional definition, and I would like to make a case for the employment of geographers. Geography is a synthetic discipline well used to handling the various elements of the multi-disciplinary social sciences. If nothing else, geography is concerned with the spatial context of the range of social sciences. There are many geographic techniques that allow definition of regions to be made in terms of functional integration. For example, Riley's law of retail gravitation can define the break points between the spheres of influence of central towns. Analysis of nodes and networks allows the tracing of the patterns of movements of people, goods and information. Studies carried out in Tasmania defined 3 clear regions with respect to most functions of human habitation. Matters taken into consideration included retail gravitation, transport links and even matters such as newspaper circulation and football playing. It is these things that give a regional impression to the areas in which we live. I support the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development whether it is a fact that Taiga Ltd has gained a controlling interest in the Camden Park Estate situated south of Campbelltown. Does the Minister know of any plans to develop this area or any other area south of Campbelltown outside the existing areas defined in the Sydney regional outline plan? If this matter is confidential and of potential embarrassment to the New South Wales Government could the Minister make a special statement on the principles he envisages for the future development of land south of Campbelltown other than that already planned? 
As an ex-chicken farmer I have been very interested in the comments of the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  I am pleased to advise him that quite recently I took to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  a delegation of all the State's broiler growers. We are looking at quite a few areas very seriously. The honourable member accurately described meetings which have taken place on the Mornington Peninsula. I was also very interested in the remarks of the honourable, member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond),  who referred to the future of the smaller ports around Australia. I am quite sure that eventually he will be told what we are being told about the problems of the Conference lines and concurrent loading. At some of the small ports a lot of cargo can be picked up but it is very hard to get much cargo to put down at them. With the advent of objective measurement of wool there is a good case to say that we will be able to assemble large parcels of wool at some ports. However, this will be over a period of only four or five months a year and cargo loading is given no continuity. 
I want to speak tonight about some basic philosophical issues. There are 2 rather large elements in .the debate that is constantly waged between the major parties in this House. One view is that we need a larger economic cake to look after the people in our society who are least able to cope with their problems. Our side wants to redistribute the cake. Both arguments have a great degree of validity. The Church of England Diocese of Sydney has stated in a report that about 2,215,000 people are living in poverty. This is rather a crushing indictment of our society. The figure, calculated by the Reverend Peter Hollingworth, is the sum of a statistical breakdown of the under-privileged into numerous categories - civilian and service pensioners, unemployed, chronically ill, widows and single parents and many thousands of families whose total income from gainful occupation or from assistance schemes is below $50 to $60 a week. The extensive activities of the Church of England in alleviating human distress make it a competent witness to talk about the nature, degree and causes of poverty. A further report recently issued showed that one in five of Sydney's inner city primary school pupils is mentally disturbed; one in 10 is not getting enough to eat; and one in 12 is poorly clothed. These are the figures that I say make a shocking indictment of our society. It is the reason why honourable members on this side of the House say that we must redistribute the cake, as a basic philosophical point. 
I would like now to refer to something closer to my electorate; that is the activities of the Wollongong branch of the Smith Family. This year the Smith Family will be looking after about 7,000 people in that area. Those people are helped when in a crisis situ ation and are not those who are sometimes termed 'professional bludgers'. They are people in a crisis situation and in dire need. I will cite some of the figures illustrating the activities of the Smith Family in a period of 6 months from December 1972 to May 1973. The figures are as follows: New cases 258; number of adults 1602; number of children 2373, making the total number of persons helped 3975. The composition of the cases in the area is as follows: Deserted wives 335; unemployed 193; people on sickness benefits 51; husbands in gaol 11; temporary crises 174; pensioners 302; unmarried mothers 64; advice only needed 273; referrals from other agencies 28; home visits by Smith Family welfare officers 111; migrants 870; food parcels as family hampers 206; food parcels as small hampers 98; clothing issued 694 families; furniture issued to 86 families; and food vouchers for perishables issued to the value of $146. 
The Smith Family organisation meets crisis situations. A while ago I was lucky enough to get $87,000 for a nursing home in Bowral to look after about 26 additional people. While I do not knock that, I point out that because an agency was set up to help people who need social welfare $87,000 was obtained for 26 people. The Smith Family, which will look after something like 7,000 people this year, would give its back teeth to get its hands on even $5,000 in the present situation. The Smith Family in Wollongong runs a white elephant auction every Saturday at which it sells off the goods people donate to it. In this way it is cutting down its overdraft. But virtually it leads a hand to mouth existence going from one week to the next trying to get enough money to help those people in a crisis situation. This is why I say, just getting back to the basic philosophical point that I raised, that we must redistribute the cake. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are interstate travel concessions on trains now available to recipients of social service pensions. 
If so, is it a fact that the concessions do not apply to sleeper facilities even when people are prepared to pay the difference; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Has he recently initiated a review of the DDL program. 
Was the DDL only compared with alternatives such as the Dutch DDG, the United Kingdom Type 42 destroyer and various United States patrol frigates. 
Was any comparison made of an overall nature as to total naval requirements. 
Is the size of the proposed DDL mainly determined by the need for range. 
Is there a Naval air power study under way. 
If so, when are the results likely to be available to his Department. 
In terms of overall naval procurement, is there a relationship between the DDL review or requirement and the Naval air power study. 
What studies are under way with respect to the future role of submarines in our defence. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What was the completion date of each school in the Belconnen area of the Australian Capital Territory. 
What was the date that children's crossings were placed on the streets adjacent to each of the schools. 
Werethe crossings placed on the streetsimmediately on completion of the schools; if not, why not. 
What criteria are used at present in deciding the tuning of the placement of such crossings. 
-I would like to say at the outset that I resent the implications made by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  that the proposals under this 
Bill represented bribes. I think that these implications parallel the insults he has already served on many officers in the armed forces and the insults in his recent speech of 30 May when he implied that the Defence Forces Development Committee was currying favour with the Government. He referred to the members of this Committee as the Secretary of the Department of Defence,2 sailors,1 airman and1 solitary soldier. I am sure that people in the armed Services do not like such insults being poured on them. The honourable member for Barker and all other members of the Opposition still have an ideological commitment to conscription. The honourable member for Barker quoted freely in a previous speech on this matter, now I should like to quote from his speech to the Returned Services League National Congress in Hobart which was held just before the previous Government introduced conscription in 1964. In speaking on the purely military disadvantages of conscription, the honourable member for Barker said: 
First, even a scheme which provides for a 2-year period of service does not provide the people we most need, that is, experienced officers, NCOs and specialists. These are the people we are short of now. The deficiency would be even greater if conscription were introduced. Secondly, conscription is wasteful in the sense that you only get about 1 8 months service out of each person you train compared with5.5 years service from most regulars. Thirdly, conscription would have a marked effect on the efficiency and availability of the field force. This is partly because scarce officers and NCOs would be required to train conscripts and partly because of the frequent turnover in the personnel of field force units which contained conscripts. An army composed entirely of long term volunteers is a better one than one based on a mixture of volunteers and conscripts. 
That speech was made in 1 964, and of course I concede that any man of substance may change his views in time. My electorate includes many serving members of the armed forces, particularly the Fleet Air Arm and the Army, and it gives me considerable pleasure to be able to commend this Bill to the House. I will not say much by way of explanation of the benefits to be conferred on servicemen because the second reading speech of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Barnard)  made these clear and straight forward. I do not regard the proposals as being incentives or bribes, as they have been described, so much as a measure of compensation and justice. During the recess I was privileged to engage in a tour of Service establishments with my colleagues on the Government's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. We saw training establishments for the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force, and active bases of the 3 Services. We were impressed by the dedication exhibited by officers and men and, where equipment was up to date, a large measure of job satisfaction. However, I was concerned by some of the problems posed by condi- tions of service, particularlywith regard to amenities such as housing. World War II huts still suffice as buildings in too many establishments and it is obvious that many decisions regarding building programs have been put off for too long. Married men and their wives and children face disadvantages with respect to housing, education and shifting of postings. There is a general backlog in the provision of married quarters at some bases. The disadvantages faced by servicemen and their families are not widely enough appreciated. As a result of the tour, the Committee has raised many matters with the Minister. As the benefits to be made available were already allowed for national servicemen it seems to me that in some ways this Bill merely corrects an anomalous situation. It has certainly been so regarded by many servicemen in my electorate of Macarthur. 
In the Minister's second reading speech mention was made of the $1,000 re-engagement bounty. This matter was largely covered by regulation, and there has been some dissension among members of the Navy as the bounty is available to them after 6 years with subsequent re-engagement being for 6 years, whereas the reengagement period for the Army is only 3 years. As the re-engagement bounty is a once only payment, there seems to be no way of avoiding this situation. It is regrettable that there seems to be a higher resignation rate in the Army during peace time owing to a somewhat natural decline in job satisfaction, particularly among professional positions in the Army. One advanced policy enunciated in the Minister's second reading speech concerned war service homes benefits for men who were continuing in service, given that they were committed to serving beyond 3 years initial service. 
The establishment of an additional training scheme to be known as the Former Regular Servicemen Vocational Training Scheme will be of benefit to people wishing to re-establish themselves with a greater degree of security. Many serving members at present do not re-enlist because they are concerned about their situation in civilian life if they remain in the Services for too many years. Trainees who will be eligible for these benefits and who commenced training on or after 7 December 1972 will be able to claim the benefits which this scheme will provide. 
Part IV of the Defence Re-establishment Act is very wide in its application, and this is desirable as it enables the Minister to make arrangements for post-discharge vocational training where it is considered necessary or desirable for effective re-establishment. I am of the opinion that greater consideration should be given to serving professional officers in specific disciplines, such as engineers, so that they may have easier access to educational institutions for their further education whilst serving. 
Although the $6,000 for agricultural loans and $3,000 for business loans will not enable men to buy a farm or business, these loans certainly will be of value in buying into existing operations and, again, could provide some compensationnot a bribe- for any disadvantage servicemen may suffer during their period of service. Provisions in this Bill delete means test provisions for regular servicemen where the Social Services Act 1947-1973 already applies to national servicemen under the existing Defence Re-establishment Act. Although the means test provision of the Social Services Act will still apply to former national servicemen, pursuant to Part V of the Defence Re-establishment Act, it is not considered that this will disadvantage former national servicemen in practice. In the first place, the few persons eligible for benefits under Part V and Part V/A of the Defence Re-establishment Act will almost invariably be eligible for invalid benefits available under other legislation anyway. Secondly, a person would have to have quite substantial means before he would be subject to a means test, and I am advised that no such case has occurred. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
6an the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry assure the House that the strictest measures will be taken with respect to the prevention of the introduction of black wart and golden nematode disease, in view of the announced importation of 800 tons of potatoes from New Zealand for processing? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received by each State Agency for Rural Reconstruction under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971. 
How many applications have been accepted and' how much aid has been given by each State in the same period. 
What has been the average amount of reconstruction and build-up money advanced by each State to successful applicants. 
How many applications have been received in each month in each State since January 1972. 
Did the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture express the need for greater assistance for New South Wales at the February 1973 meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. 
Did the New South Wales Minister for Lands ask for an increase in the percentage of available funds for New South Wales at the recent meeting which reviewed the Rural Reconstruction Scheme. 
Did the New South Wales Minister for Lands enter into an agreement wilh the previous Government whereby the Agency in his State would expend available funds evenly until 30 June 1973. 
As a reduction of, say, $4,000 to $5,000 per application granted would allow New South Wales to extend assistance to more applications, is there any way that other States are devising to stretch funds further which could be used by New South Wales. 
What criteria are used by each State Agency in assessing viability of farms for reconstruction. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Royal Navy recently took delivery of a guided missile warship of 6,000 tons, namely HMS Bristol. 
If so, can be also say whether the cost of this ship was $50m and whether it is powered by both steam and gas turbines. ' ' 
If the details are as stated, what would be the main items of expense that would lift the projected cost of the Australian DDL design sp much above the British design. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What is the present situation with respect to FM radio. 
Does he accept that FM radio should be based on the UHF band. 
Will receivers using the UHF band be more expensive than if the VHF band was used. 
Can he give details of the comparative costs of UHF and VHF receivers. 
Is the only objection to the VHF band that one television channel would have to be re-allocated. 
If not, what other objections are there. 
If technical reasons limit the use of the VHF band, can he say why the United States of America with a large number of broadcasters, and most other countries, can cope with the use of the VHF band. 
Can the Minister for Defence explain his proposals with respect to the new disciplinary code for the armed services, so that those prepared to seek publicity but not knowledge may be reassured? 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Can he say how many people have committed suicide in high rise, high density flats in capital cities in Australia during the last 5 years. 
What studies have been undertaken on the social effects of high rise living on people in Australia and overseas. 
Will he commission a study on the sociological and psychological effects of high rise, high density living. 
The first Labor Budget for 24 years is better than I thought possible, not for what it does - although this, too, is more than I expected - but for what it sets out to do in terms of new policy initiatives and priorities. The measure of a national government is whether it tackles national problems. The measure of a member in the Australian Parliament is whether he sees the need for policies beyond his own particular parochial interests and in the interests of Australia as a whole. We have a government that is prepared to govern for Australia. No longer do we have a compromised coalition which sees its role as a government of supervision, the protection of privilege and catering for sectional interests - a government of perverted pluralism. This is a Budget of reconstruction and of social justice and one which is designed to increase the efficiency of our mixed economy. Many minorities have been provided for at long last and the philosophy of this was evident in the report tabled by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  this afternoon. 
The major criticism of the Budget has been that it does little to cure inflation. Those criticising it on these grounds overlook the fact that the Government does not regard the Budget as the only tool for the control of inflation and that other measures can, and will, be taken when the time is opportune. The critics also ignore the forces acting already carried out, for example, revaluation, within the economy as a result of actions capital inflow measures and tariff cuts. We would be very obliged if the Opposition or anyone else could give a quick cure-all to inflation. The only intellectual source still as yet untapped systematically is our newspaper editors. Should they be able to agree, I am sure that we would listen. The Opposition says: 'Cut Government spending'. But anywhere that we have, there is a wail. What they are saying really is that we should have the same priorities as did the Opposition. Where should we cut Government spending? Should it be in the area of education, health, urban affairs or primary industry? The Opposition should come out and say so if this is what it believes. The demand is for more public expenditure. 
A Treasury case now being praised - the same Treasury which the Opposition blamed for its loss of office - probably still reflects the hard-headed technical view that 3 per cent unemployment will knock 2 per cent off inflation. This, the Government rejects. The past Government had inflation and unemployment. We could have raised taxes but we undertook not to do so and it is better to wait on the tax inquiry before looking at this area. Too many people assume that we can carry on in the same way as the past Government and, at the same time, achieve much more. Those who say we are doing too much too soon are opposed by those who say that we are not doing enough soon enough. The pressure is on us for increased public expenditure, but the backlog is so great that new programs will take time to put into effect, particularly in the affairs of urban matters. The past Government would not adapt policy to new conditions and demands quick enough or tackle major underlying problems in our economy. 
I accept largely much of what the monetarists say on inflation. Australia had inflation under control until about 1965 when the open door policy on overseas investment began. The percentage increases in money allowed into the economy from our 3 major sources of money supply - banks, fringe banks and overseas - rose as a percentage of gross national expenditure from 27.6 per cent in 1965 to 33.8 per cent in 1971. The percentage increase in money supplied in real terms from 1965-66 to 1970-71 was of the order of 7 per cent to 8 per cent annually. In 1971-72 it was 10.5 per cent; in 1972-73 it was 25.5 per cent. The major part of this was in the first half of the year as capital inflow has slowed dramatically in the first 6 months of this year. This is one of the processes I mentioned earlier. 
Overseas investment rose by 109 per cent on the previous year 1966-67, fell by 27 per cent in 1969-70 and rose by 59.2 per cent in 1970-71 when $l,514m came in. In 1971-72 $1,9 18m entered the country and it is estimated that in this current year the inflow will be of the order of 5339m. The consumer price index traced the expansion in the increased money supplies that I have outlined. For a while we had our cake and could eat it too and at this time the psychology of inflation based on rising expectations became entrenched. The cake is now starting to choke us. 
The situation of the late 1960s and early 1970s has been compounded by external factors such as in the price of imports - a product of world-wide inflation - and rising overseas prices for most of our primary commodities. The channels of external pressure are well understood and there are measures that can be taken. However, measures are difficult to effect in other areas. Food prices are a major problem at present and food represented 50 per cent of the rise in the consumer price index in 1972-73 compared with 14 per cent in 1971-72. Beef is a major item but I can see that there is little that we can do about it. At the same time, I think that the $7m we pay in export incentives is a little misguided. We are hooked into the international economy and rather than saying that our main problem is that we are too rich, we should be saying that now is a time to redistribute income. I believe that the most equitable way to do this is by a fundamental change in the taxation structure whereby persona) deductions may be replaced by rebates. This Budget did not do enough to redistribute income but, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has said, we were 95 per cent committed. 
I do not want to raise all the arguments in terms of cost-push and demand-pull inflation but would comment that profit inflation has never been looked at seriously in Australia. I would define profit inflation as when prices increase even though marginal costs have remained unchanged - that is, pricing on what the market will bear. I hope that the Prices Justification Tribunal and more effective trade practices legislation may remedy this situation. There is a complex of interacting forces that contribute to inflation. Therefore, there is a need for a range of monetary and fiscal policies to be implemented, but it is desirable that shifts in policy be not too sudden or, if they are sudden, that they should be consistent. In this regard, a monetary policy that has facilitated an expansion in the volume of money in 1972-73 at about 3 times its trend rate of growth was an example of an inappropriate policy that exacerbated an inflationary situation. This is what we inherited. In the current situation it seems appropriate to restore the growth in the money supply to a rate in line with the rate of growth in real output and to implement a neutral budget. These requirements imply a rate of growth in the volume of money of around 7 per cent and a Budget deficit not exceeding $700m. The Budget, with a deficit of less than $700m is in my opinion, responsible. 
I have referred to my contention that the previous Government did not act quickly enough or adjust to realities. This was particularly so with respect to adjustment to our greatly changed balance of payments situation and reserves. Recognition of the significance of external inflationary forces on the Australian economy, either directly on prices or more generally on domestic demand, means that greater emphasis should be placed on policies to insulate Australia from these external pressures. It is possible to isolate- the domestic economy from overseas influences by more frequent exchange rate adjustments, tariff cuts, export taxes, import subsidies and capital controls. This Government has acted in some of these areas. It seems clear that Australia should have revalued the dollar well before December 1972 so as to avoid the huge build-up of international reserves and the resultant expansionary impact on domestic liquidity. Perhaps a floating exchange rate would be a good measure but we really would have to set up a market. 
The prophets of doom have wailed long and loud at our decision to revalue in 
December and recent tariff cuts. Perhaps it would serve some purpose to outline once more the reasons and purpose of revaluation. The role and purpose of trade is, in the final analysis, to increase real income in Australia. As such, the piling up of export surpluses, which represents an allocation of real resources to foreigners, does not increase but on the contrary diminishes real income in Australia. There is no point in export for exports sake. But of course, we cannot turn exports, particularly manufacturing exports, on and off. The prices we receive for our farm products are largely beyond our control. Those were among the considerations that led to the Government's action on the exchange rate. 
The point was made explicitly in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that 'the foreign exchange earned from the proceeds of exports is of no value to Australians unless it can be used to enlarge the real resources actually available for use within our economy.' Revaluation can play a part in various ways in enlarging the real resources available. Similarly, our decision to cut tariffs was also made in this light. The reduction announced on 18 July 1973 will have a direct restraining effect on the rate of inflation by reducing the prices of imported goods subject to duty and by increasing the degree of competition in import competing local industries receiving tariff protection. The tariff reduction also moderates inflationary forces by easing the pressure of demand for domestic goods that are available for imports. The Treasury has estimated that the 25 per cent tariff reduction is equivalent to a revaluation of about  2i  per cent although, clearly, its effects are concentrated on those industries which are subject to tariff protection. More than 50 per cent of imports still enter Australia duty free. I have only one other comment to make on reserves. I believe the situation should be investigated more thoroughly with respect to procuring weapons out of reserves. 
I should like to turn my main attention to the rural sector and ideology. The Australian Labor Party in government is becoming more a party of government while we see more and more the Opposition Parties becoming parties of ideology. 'Socialism' and 'free enterprise' as catchcries are getting a new lease of life. Yet we have the Opposition advocating the socialist prices and incomes policies while decrying competition-inducing measures such as tariff cuts. Socialism has never been an issue in 
Australian politics to the degree it has in the United Kingdom or Europe or most democratic countries. It has been the experience that Australia has involved governments which have always spent largely in the public sector or intervened publicly. This goes back to the 1860s in the railway boom of that time. The post-war policies of the Labor Government put a base under the economy which allowed private enterprise to thrive and there was little policy initiation until the mid-1960s when the previous Government started to run into trouble. The simple fact is that there is a need to put a floor of public expenditure under the economy so that private enterprise may thrive. 
The past Government engaged in union bashing and now we see the Opposition parties trying to construct a myth that we are engaged in farmer bashing. It is rather significant that members of the Opposition give no credit at all to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  with respect to the polices he has advanced for children in rural areas which will provide $304 un-means tested for each child 10 miles away from an appropriate school, the same amount if living more than 4 miles away from transport to a school and up to $1,000 a year for isolated children. The Country Party members in the House I find to be a good mob of blokes individually, but their Party has real policy formation problems and has always had problems with respect to being in coalition. The latest evidence of this, of course, is the Country Party's flirtation with the Democratic Labor Party. I believe that there has been a failure by some honourable members on my side to understand the farming community and its problems. But this lack of communication and understanding is more than compounded by the Opposition's failure to understand and sympathise with urban dwellers and wage earners. I get particularly annoyed at the constant gibes of some members opposite that no Labor member has ever been a farmer. Some of those accusing us and passing themselves off as farmers, of course, probably either inherited their position or married into it. I was born and bred on a farm and worked and lived there for 33 years. I admit that my enterprise was based on the humble chook and apple tree and not the aristocratic sheep and proud wheat crop, but a primary producer I was and the lurks I know. 1 have said that this Budget is a reconstructing budget. The Government is interested in cures for the long run problems of primary industry and not the band-aid approach of the Country Party. But let us look at the ideology. If socialism in Australia is defined as government interference in market forces and subsidisation then the Country Party has been the most effective socialist party in Australia. 
I want now to talk only of consistency and not the measures themselves. I largely believe in all the measures. It is not that I disagree with what has been done, but I want to refer to the consistency of the Country Party wailing about the supposed socialist Labor Government. The major primary industry in my electorate is dairying. The area is safe climatically and most of the farmers are on whole milk production but some of them are producing for manufacturing. The measures of government assistance or interference include the following: The Dairy Industry Authority, quotas, co-operatives, which are supposedly socialistic, subsidies to industries overall, restrictive legislation on margarine, import restrictions, in certain circumstances flood relief, bush fire relief, drought relief, special credit facilities, reconstruction aid, the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme, domestic price support for products for manufacturing, and subsidies on fertilisers. There are also tax concessions, including 5- year averaging, a range of special concessions, drought bonds, etc. 
Farmers are disadvantaged in many ways but there are also many hidden benefits which I will not go into, lt was my experience that you simply did not have to pay tax if your farm was expanding, and I got into 3 figures twice. But if this is a free enterprise industry then 1 do not know what a socialist approach is. As I have said, I am not against these measures in any categorical way but I hardly think that this is a sterling example of free enterprise. In fact the late Jack Ferguson, who was  Chairman  of the Australian Milk Board, instituted many of these measures to the benefit of the dairying industry. Even more importantly, despite the loss of farmers in this industry and despite the industry's own efforts to adjust itself and the various government approaches, the approach still has not worked. It is symptomatic that the only area of real rural poverty in Australia is still represented by the Leader of the Australian Country Party (Mr Anthony) - this after 23 years. I am not blaming him for the situation that he faces in that area but I simply say that the approaches have not worked. Of all dairy farmers 65.9 per cent have a net income of less than $5,000 a year in New South Wales and 85.9 per cent of all dairy farmers in Queensland have an income of less than $5,000. The average income in the manufacturing sector is still only $3,177 in New South Wales and $1,547 in Queensland. 
Measures for assistance in restructuring have been advanced in the Budget, but more importantly I hope that the Protection Commission can put forward measures that will reconstruct primary industry in a more sensible way. We need to get farmers out of the butter economy and into the milk manufacturing section in those areas which are still locked in the butter economy and there needs to be more encouragement to go into beef. We may face a surplus of 45,000 tons of butter in 1975. At present Japan is being trumpeted as a market, but I doubt very much that returns will cover cost of production. I doubt very much that returns will exceed 30c per lb. I think there is some evidence that butter and cheese are both being dumped. 
A plan for the industry was put forward in the early 1960s and nothing was done. We had 10 years warning of the European Economic Community and nothing was done. We are proposing not only more money for reconstruction but more measures on marketing and long term policies. As I see it, there are 3 main policy choices open to a govenment in respect of primary industry in Australia - kill, cure or strangle. Strangle is the traditional approach with measures such as subsidising upwards farmers' prices received on a unit production basis and subsidising downwards farmers' prices paid, infrastructure projects, legislation for monopolistic marketing and against alternative supplies and substitutes, concessional tax and related measures. The kill philosophy is: 'Get big or get out*. This is the unstated policy of the Liberal Party and some Liberal members, but not the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who has just sat down. Cure is  a  policy of adjustment and reconstruction. It is this policy we have embarked upon. It is an approach based on economic rationality and the need for welfare assistance. 
The sort of premises that a policy of adjustment can be based on and should include are: That the cost-price squeeze will continue; that an increasing volume of total farm production is consistent with fewer farmers; that economic efficiency of farming is more important to Australia than the number of farmers; that neither the economy nor society needs every farmer as a farmer if over-production of unsaleable products is taking place and better marketing cannot help; that fewer farmers will not mean the end of family farming. The best guarantee against corporate farming is viable family units. I do not accept that you have 2 choices - peasant farming or corporate or collective farming. The premises for such a policy also include: That get big or get out is inadequate as a policy for all farmers; that there is no once and for all size of farm business likely to ensure all time viability; that drought, flood and other natural disasters should attract realistic, not confused, financial assistance; that the welfare needs of rural communities and towns must be accurately perceived in social terms separate from handouts; that society, through government, has the responsibility to ensure employment opportunities for every man to earn or to have a minimum income but not to guarantee every man security in the occupation of his choice. 
In my opinion, the emphasis has to be on the income, not on the product, to provide justice. Perhaps a negative income tax may be by far the best way to assist rural industry in areas of poverty. But any form of assistance must take into account the varying types of farm economic situations. This is particularly so with respect to rural credit. We have a wide range of credit facilities, few of which are long-term enough, most of which are confused in the farmer's mind with reconstruction aid. More identification of the problem of long-term rural credit is needed. 
In the remaining time I would just like to speak on the phasing out of the butter bounty. The decision to phase out the bounty was made primarily because the Federal Government believes that all expenditure must be purposeful, and the dairy bounty did not meet this criterion. On the surface, the bounty had only marginally improved the welfare of the small dairy man, when it is considered that the bounty has been a factor pushing up the price of land and other inputs. The lion's share of the bounty has gone to the richer farmers and the richer dairy States. Last May  Mr Ken  Sillcock,  Deputy  Chief of the Division of Dairying in the Victorian 
Department of Agriculture, stated that any benefits dairy farmers ever received from the bounty had long ago been cancelled out by unrealistic land prices and other capital gains. He then urged the industry to take the initiative and call for the phasing out of the bounty. Overall,  Mr Sillcock  said that the bounty means higher land and input prices; it had provided ammunition for critics of the industry and allowed the Government the upper hand in negotiations as it could use the threat of reducing or removing the bounty. The end of the bounty, he claimed, would give the industry more strength in dealing with the Government and a far better public image. Of the total $27m bounty allocated for 1972-73, it is estimated that Victoria will receive $ 18.2m or 67 per cent of the total. On the other hand, Queensland should receive only $2.4m or 8.7 per cent. Since 1967-68 Queensland's share has fallen from almost IS per cent while Victoria's share has risen from 55 per cent. 
A survey by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics covering the 3 years 1967-68 to 1969-70 shows that the annual payment of bounty to individual producers averaged $993 in Victoria, compared with $544 in New South Wales and only $424 in Queensland. I think that these figures I have given prove that the bounty is most inequitable in its impact, favouring the wealthy producers and the wealthier dairy States. In my opinion this is a strange policy. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether it is a fact that  Sir Robert  Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, stated on 30 August 1973 that his Government had no power to stop  Mr Alexander  Barton from leaving Australia. Is it a fact that the New South Wales Government made no approaches to the Australian Government to have this man stopped from leaving the country? If both these propositions are true, can the Minister assure the House that the Australian Government will act at the request of the New South Wales Government to prevent other directors of the Barton group of companies from leaving Australia? 
Has the attention of the 
Minister for the Environment and Conservation been drawn to a recent newspaper article alleging that since the Budget was brought down by the Treasurer with its provisions against land clearing for tax purposes, the cost of uncleared land has not risen, whereas the cost of cleared land has increased? Whatever its environmental implications, does not the Minister agree that the altering of section 75 and section 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act is a form of discrimination against Pitt Street farmers? 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Capita] Territory been drawn to any complaints received concerning the availability of cars belonging to the Commonwealth car pool in Canberra? Is there any cause for concern about the condition in which the cars are received from the manufacturers and the system whereby the cars are serviced by agents of the manufacturers during the initial period after their receipt by the Australian Government? In the interest of consumers generally, will the Minister compile a list of defects, on delivery and in the first 6 months, of all vehicles, by makes, purchased for the pool? 
The first after dinner  speaker  on this Bill, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who is  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, made a good thumping speech. This was in contrast to the usual sullen anti-rural mumblings of his colleagues. However, I take some exception to the reference to  Dr Patterson,  who is not at present overseas for 3 months but is in Geneva negotiating on international sugar agreements. He will be in attendance at that conference until mid-October. I thought that the Country Party would have regarded that conference as a serious matter and well worth the Minister's time overseas. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party made some mention also of schools for meat inspectors. Unless I misheard him he said that these schools were being stopped. I can say quite clearly that that is not so. 
This Bill is straightforward, as stated by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  in his second reading speech. I will allow the Minister to answer some of the charges made. The purpose of the Bill is to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia in order  ta  recoup the cost to the Government of inspection of meat for export. The charge of lc per lb will be paid by exporters and is designed to cover only the cost of inspection. There is no sense working out figures and tables and saying that more than the cost of inspection is to be recouped unless the matter is viewed over a 3-year period. The amount is to be recouped over 3 years - in fact in 33 months. Again, I believe that matter will be explained in full by the Minister for Immigration who is at present at the table. I believe that producers will be a little more proud and independent of spirit and not take much notice of the opportunistic approach of the Opposition or the political moves of some people who have a vested interest to maintain. The Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt,  has spoken on this matter with meat industry leaders. As far as I can understand and as far as I am assured, the meat industry leaders have in no way criticised the imposition of this levy. 
When I was a primary producer I thought it was sensible and logical that charges on the products I produced for export were a charge to the industry. When I was a producer producing livestock and wanted to clear up a disease, I thought it was fair enough that I, as a farmer, should pay for it. As far as I am concerned this is the philosophy that should be put forward. I think that there is no automatic justification for assisting industries just because they happen to export products. Is the Government expected to pay for the inspection of cars which are exported by car manufacturers? Does the Government have to help every industry regardless of the conditions the industry is experiencing? What is the sort of philosophy behind always grizzling about any change to the status quo? If blacksmiths had been subsidised at one stage, would there be any need to continue the subsidy until 1973? This charge has been in operation since 1927 and I think now is a reasonable and sensible time to impose this levy. I cannot understand why the Opposition maintains that taxpayers should subsidise exporters. I think that the rural industries are in a better position to absorb this cost than ever before. 
Well, even so, this is a justifiable charge in my opinion. As I said, I have faith in this industry and I think there is a lot of confidence and stability in the meat exporting industy and in the meat industry overall. 
The total income of the rural industry has risen by $756m to a record $ 1,880m in the current year and will be a lot higher next year. The total impact of all charges and the removal of subsidies in the Budget amounts to about 2 per cent of the projected net income in the coming financial year. Australia is now the world's largest exporter of meat and the world's largest exporter of beef. There is a fair amount of evidence of the health of the rural economy at present. I think I should emphasise 'at present'. This is not simply a climatic factor with respect to beef. The supply has been rising for a long time and there has been much transfer of resources into beef. Land values are booming and the profit of major rural companies is rising. This is a damned good thing considering what the industry has gone through recently. 
A table of price rises of meat, movements in the consumer price index and the indices of the components of the meat group from the December quarter 1966 to the December quarter 1972 show that the rate of increase in the price of all types of meat, with the single exception of beef, in this period had been significantly less than the rate of increase in the consumer price index. However, the change between the December quarter 1972 and the March quarter 1973 in the consumer price index and the meat price indices showed a dramatic jump. The consumer price index was up 2.1 per cent. All meat rose 8.6 per cent; beef 6.2 per cent; lamb 15.7 per cent; mutton 23 per cent; and pork rose 3.6 per cent. There was an even larger jump from the March quarter to the June quarter. The consumer price index rose 3.3 per cent and compared with the previous quarter meat was up 1 1 per cent; beef 9.3 per cent; lamb 12.9 per cent; mutton 20.8 per cent; and pork 4.4 per cent. I think this is fair evidence of the rising prices of meat and is related directly to the United States price. A recent Bureau of Agricultural Economics study showed that for every lc rise on the United States market local prices rose by 0.5c. Wholesale prices for meat in the United States have risen 215 per cent since 1971. The price of boneless beef was 50c per lb on 2 August 1973. Three weeks later it was up to 75c per lb. This is why I believe the charge is justified. I mink the industry is always better placed to approach government in future when it is not obtaining unrealistic and unnecessary subsidies. The situation does not look like changing in the immediate future and I think we all hope that it does not. 
I wish to make only a few simple points on the Bills before the House. Despite the great and growing appreciation of the prospects and problems of Papua New Guinea by the 2 major parties in this House there still remains in the community at large too many stereotyped and simplistic views on the country. I am often amazed by what some of my constituents say to me about Papua New Guinea. Many still assume that unless Papua New Guinea is identical in form to Australia that country will not be ready for self-government and independence. I think that all of us in this House appreciate that this is an absurd point of view. I wish to direct most of my comments to some of the simplistic views about the country. 
Despite the mild criticisms expressed by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  I think he largely agrees with what the Government is doing and the Opposition is not opposed to these Bills. The die was cast when the honourable member for Kooyong was the Minister for External Territories, and I think the casting has resulted in this collection of Bills, particularly the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) 1973. As the honourable member has fairly stated these Bills are a progression of policies initiated by the previous Government. However, I want to point out that letting her rip is a different task from seeing it through. This Government in the months that it has been in office has seen the matter through. I think we all appreciate the clever way in which the honourable member for Kooyong has put forward some criticisms and we appreciate that he has given the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  ample opportunity to reply to them and to trace out the progress that this Government has made. 
During the recess I had the privilege of being a member of the first all party parliamentary delegation that has made an official visit to Papua New Guinea. I think that this in a way is a reflection on the Australian Parliament. I want to pick up something that was said by the honourable member for Kooyong about the interest shown by Prime Ministers in Papua New Guinea. I point out to the honourable member that the previous Prime Minister did not go to that country and that the present Prime Minister who has a great interest in Papua New Guinea was there within 2 months of gaining office. In many ways the interest in this country on the part of the present Prime Minister has been one of the catalysts which has brought these Bills about. The Prime Minister before the previous Prime Minister, of course, only went up there with a gun on his hip. 
I do not suppose that all members of the delegation agreed on the background of everything that we saw but I am sure that we all agreed on the beauty and the potential wealth of the country as well as the intelligence of the people. I believe they are possessed of enough talent, ability and skills to handle selfgovernment and independence. There may be a lot of problems but Australia has plenty of problems and I am quite sure that we do not envisage that Papua New Guinea will be faced with anything like the problems of such a sophisticated nation as Northern Ireland. I think the stage simply has been reached where there are few problems which cannot be solved better by the people themselves. I would put myself down as only a 6-day expert and I do not know anywhere near as much on this matter as one of my colleagues in the delegation, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who was a great guide to us. But I did form many opinions. 
The reason why the honourable member for Morton  (Mr Killen)  often alludes to the ancients in regard to politics is, of course, that political attitudes are pretty general and have been that way through the centuries. In our tour of New Guinea we visited many local councils. There, in the members of the Council, one could sec just about every political attitude that is exhibited in this House. There seemed to be a Country Party in microcosm, with the attitudes towards the land. There was a mutual suspicion of Port Moresby as a sort of central power. Everyone wanted more money for local government and a lot of people, of course, wanted the localisation process to give more autonomy in setting up budgets to the regions themselves. The only difference was that the opinions being expressed by the Council members tended to be more overt, more open and perhaps less subtle than we have in our own parliaments. But every political attitude was there. The people knew what they wanted and they knew what they were about. 
I think there were about 155 local government councils in Papua New Guinea. Some of them go back many years. Many of the councillors are very skilled men indeed, particularly in committee work. I went there possibly a little more pessimistic than I came back, because certainly I came back feeling optimis tic, despite some of the problems we saw. One is dealing only with elites in developing nations. Of course there are a lot of tensions. But many of these tensions can be very creative as well as potentially destructive. I came back with two major impressions with respect to the so-called troubles and the way of the highlanders. I felt that the recent troubles had little to do with the coming of self-government and more to do with the change in the degrees of control and changes in the basis of authority. There is the constant problem of land, but this again would be best solved by the Papua New Guinea people themselves. 
We were privileged to see also one of the land commissions of inquiry in action at a village level trying to work out what recommendations it would make to its own Government. The other thing is the problems of the highlanders who supposedly are opposed to self-government and independence. I do not think this was an opposition in any sort of traditional conservative terms at all. It seemed to me to be just a hard-headed appraisal of the situation. The highlanders worried mainly about money and a continuance of Australia's role in providing funds and the wherewithal for what they have seen in their own lifetime. Many men there could remember seeing the first European coming into the valleys. Since development has accelerated since about 1966, they have seen roads, hospitals, schools and all those things come in. They simply do not want to take the risk of the provision of these improvements ceasing in any way. I think that we have to assure the people of Papua New Guinea as much as possible that Australia is committed to continuing finance in the future. The present Budget was a record Budget and much of the various allocations were negotiated between the Papua New Guinea Government and the Australian Government. 
I thought also that there was a much greater need for dissemination of information. Communications are still poor in most areas, as many people realise, with problems of language. There still has to be a lot more communication, I think, and there should have been a lot more communication from the Australian Government to the people to prepare them for changes. They are in a society that has been enmeshed in change for a long time. It is pretty reasonable to expect that there will be over-reaction to some changes when they are in a society that is so much in flux. 1 do not think there has been so much a problem of law and order as a problem in specific areas - great problems caused by the diversity. 
As the Minister said, this Bill is historic. I should like to make just a few blunt and rather didactic statements. I think there is much value in speeding to self-government and independence as soon as possible. I think we need to have a situation where those who actually take a decision are legally responsible for it. I think that delay means shadows, a shadow line, grey areas, uncertainty as to who has the power and who has the responsibility. This must be avoided. Law and order have been trotted around Australia as well as in Papua New Guinea, Law and order is a cliche. Law is a social device and I want to speak more of it as a social device. There is a need to seek public order and harmony within the community. But I think that the Papua New Guinea Government, the Australian Government and the Australian people must not ignore the underlying social tensions. I think there is a great need for the Government to be magnanimous. I do not think that police should be used simply to alienate some of the community problems that the people may or may not have. The police must not enforce unjust laws when the laws are seen by the people to be unjust. I do not think that the constabulary and the Army should be assumed to be the first and only answer to problems. I think that there should be a lot more emphasis on funding of the police rather than the Army. 
I agree with Professor J. B. D. Miller, who said in a recent issue of the 'Australian Outlook' that Australia has been gravely at fault in the past in delaying the separation of the armed forces of Papua New Guinea from those of Australia. The Army and the Police Force in fact are at best only short term expedients. We all agree, I think, that the future will be one of turbulence and excitement. This is natura! and to be expected; it would be curious if it were any other way in a new nation which has such great vitality. I think the country needs now a vigorous assertion of legal power. The power of a foreign derived law, as it has had, could itself precipitate an anti-Australian movement within the country. I think it must get its own laws as soon as possible which would be more in keeping with the mores of society. There have been a lot of headlines in the Australian newspapers and in papers in Papua New Guinea about certain riots. A brigadier - I forget his name - when giving evidence to a Senate committee spoke about a possible bloodbath up there. I think that these headlines and these generalisations are not desirable. One heard a lot about the Port Moresby riots following a football match but not too much about the fact that the Mt Hagen show, which was attended by an enormous number of people, went off without any incidents whatsoever. We heard a great deal of publicity about Josephine Abaijah and the movement she leads, and that is fair enough; attention should be paid to her ideas. However, it seems that emphasis was not put on the fact that the death of Matthias Toliman had united the people in their grief for one of their leaders. 
I think we have to examine what evidence there is in reality of a breakdown in law and order. I shall quote from the most learned article on the subject which I have read recently. It was written by Nigel Oram and appears in the journal 'New Guinea', Volume VII, June 1973. He traced some of the evidence that is available and quoted from the Commission of Inquiry into Alcoholic Drink. He certainly could point to evidence that crimes associated with drunkeness had increased dramatically but that this was more a problem of the town and migrant populations and not of the villages. Some of his conclusions were that nowhere in Papua New Guinea has public order ever broken down completely but that there are distinct problems in different areas. What is needed is an analysis of supposed crime or of law and order in the social context of the society and an analysis of social control. Administrative control or administrative action is concerned with authority whereas political action is concerned with power relations and decision making. We have to define the 2 problems - the dichotomy of legality and legitimacy. It is very hard to say that the colonial regimes had any legality; but when one talks of legitimacy, one is talking of a wider matter. Legitimacy really gets down to the socialisation of the society itself, the mores and the values of the society. Societies depend for their existence on the presence in the minds of its members of a certain system of sentiments by which the conduct of the individual is regulated in conformity with the needs of the society. Customary values, beliefs and techniques of society grow up over centuries. 
I have little time in which to describe the clan society of Papua New Guinea and the kinds of leaders with which it has grown up; one could possibly describe them as ascribed leadership and achieved leadership. But the society itself did evolve means of settling disputes, and probably one could boil this down to saying that the big men talk the problems out. With the European administration came direct rule by Kiaps which largely meshed into the traditional system in some way; but imposition of the English legal concepts and European concepts was always poorly understood. I would, if I had time, try to trace the progress of legal administration in a society which largely went along as if it were along colonial lines until 1965. Since then there have been great changes in legal administration in the country. And, of course, the great change in the impact of European administration also has to be understood in terms of the way in which the patrol officers and district commissioners and others set up the administration. This, of course, went back to the 1880s. Great changes have been made in the society by the impact of Europeans, monetary economy, Western education and Christian religion. 
I think the attempt to introduce the Australian legal system was not a matter of replacing chaos with the rule of law but of replacing one type of social control with another. The Western concept of abstract justice and punishment for offences is not uniformly accepted in conceptual terms - and why should it be? The Papua New Guinea Government is now developing its own ideas about laws which will have country-wide applicability. While I was in Papua New Guinea a report was brought down in the Parliament on the first thoughts about the development of these laws. I think the old certainties of village life have disappeared and the Papua New Guinea society is in a constant state of trying to adapt to changing conditions. The roles of the luluais, tultuls and village constables have changed in the space of a few short years. The Native Village Councils Ordinance of 1948 provided for a situation where the councils themselves were responsible for the maintenance of order in their areas. But in 1963 the powers in a local government ordinance relating to law and order were removed as a result of recommendations made by Professor Derham in 1961. The Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary has filled this gap. I often think in sociologi cal terms about whether that was any great advance. I think it could be argued that the old council kin relationship was possibly better than the police as a means of enforcing law and order. 
I think the same sorts of stresses and changes have occurred with respect to the administration of justice, as I said before. Unfortunately I have not time to go into this aspect. To sum up, I do not think that there is so much a law and order problem in Papua New Guinea as a number of specific fields in which stresses within the society threaten public order. Tensions have developed throughout societies in Papua New Guinea as a result of rapid change. But I maintain that if they are recognised by the people in those societies they are often socially and economically productive. I am optimistic about this occurring. I have great faith in Michael Somare and his Government and in their perceptions of their own society. As the honourable member for Kooyong has just stated, it is the people of Papua New Guinea who have to make up their own minds and we have to let them go ahead and do so. When they do get independence it has to be total independence. I think the so-called law and order issue is best handled by the people of the country itself. This Bill goes part of the way towards making the power formal. This Bill will allow Papua New Guinea to have its own home-grown constitution. It will not in any way pre-empt any of the decisions of the Government of Papua New Guinea or of the committees working out these things at present. 
To sum up my attitude, I think that there is a need for Australians - the people to whom I addressed myself at the beginning of this short speech - to understand the society sociologically. Alarmist statements by newspapers and the media do little to help but only serve to disguise the real issues. Attitudes of Australian politics have little to do with the underlying factors and the qualities and initiatives of the Papua New Guinea people and their past, present and future leaders. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Health to the Budget proposal to phase out the issue of free milk to primary school children. Can the Minister inform the House of the health and medical reasons behind the decision, the views of State Health Ministers on the proposal from a health and medical point of view, what criteria will be used for a continuation of the scheme in some areas and whether the decision was in any way prompted by waste of milk involved in the scheme? 
Debates on defence in this House are rarely centred on the defence of Australia or national security. In fact, prior to this Government taking office, no study had ever been carried out on the defence of Australia. Emotion and precedent, the lessons of history, no matter how erroneous, rule and any analytical rigorous thought on what forces we should have and their disposition was always lacking. Every time a shaking up has taken place in the defence establishment there have been loud wails about morale, without any definition or analysis. I refer to the 'Australian Financial Review' of Friday, 5 March 1971. In an editorial headed 'A Neurotic Shambles in Defence' it states: 
Partly through an unusual concatenation of circumstances and partly as a by-product of the almost unstoppable force meeting the almost immovable object, the state of morale in Australia's defence establishment at the moment can only be described as a shambles: 
The historical factors for this range all the way from the inflexibility of the rather simple military tradition in the face of modern social and technological change to the discontent of military men over pay and conditions. The clash between military and political realities is most vividly seen in Vietnam where nervous political direction from Canberra is putting Australian soldiers in the field in a situation which not only offends against all military precepts but is also (in a military sense) shameful. 
This appraisal was of course followed by the 1972 Budget when the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was Minister for Defence. He had his estimates reduced by S50m, to an allocation of 2.9 per cent of gross national product. The defence chiefs fought the Budget. Fifty million dollars was cut from defence expenditure. This was when we had our forces committed to Vietnam. It had followed the dramatic times of the resignation of the then Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Army had been in uproar and generals' names were being bandied about in the Press. The moves the right honourable member for Higgins tried to implement within the defence establishment - I agree with much that he said at the time about pay and conditions^ - were unsuccessful. It is for this reason and others that we inherited a shambles, with many decisions having been put off. If the assessment of the honourable member for 
Higgins that there will be 'no threat for 10 years' is accepted, I want to know why we inherited a situation in which nearly every major procurement decision had to be made immediately. As a recent detailed publication has outlined, we are virtually designing our future defence on a blank canvas. When we look at the shocking position that the Defence Department has been put into we see that we are faced with a situation where we need to double capital expenditure in the budget for the mid-1970s and early 1980s. Some rationalisation is necessary. We are looking at ways and means whereby we can use our reserves to buy equipment overseas. Given the time factor, why did the honourable member for Wannon not go ahead with the Mirage replacement program? The fact is that the Liberals had painted themselves into a corner on the DDL project. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has said that we will get destroyers, and we will. 
Foreign affairs forms a major part of our defence policies. In big power terms and stating the position baldly, I expect the next few years to be marked by a fairly stable equilibrium between the 3 major nuclear powers - the United States of America, the Soviet Union and China. The small states of Asia and the Pacific will be handled rather gingerly by those 3 powers. Such a situation would not preclude the existence of informal spheres of influence operated by the major powers, though these would be much less rigid and exclusive than those to which we have been accustomed. 
In general I think we shall see a more stable world political system involving something of a downgrading of military considerations. This will mean that while nuclear arsenals continue to mount and most states continue to preserve and sometimes enlarge conventional forces, the equilibrium between the great powers will produce less emphasis on strategy and leave more room for international economic negotiations. Even if that is right, the defence situation can never be certain. So in this situation we need a capability to meet the range of situations possible. The important fact not realised by the Opposition is that in the early 1970s we are a watershed. The United Kingdom and the United States of America have pulled out of South East Asia and we now have to support what we put in the field. The United States itself is cutting back on defence. In its' latest budget it cut $3.5 billion from defence expenditure, shut down or nearly shut down 274 bases, of which 40 were major bases, and sacked 40,000 people in the Services and the civilian elements in its defence forces. 
The Government has decided to rationalise its defence structure administratively and to review critically all procurement programs. We now have a 5-year weapon buying program being drawn up. When it is presented it will represent the Government's and its defence advisers' priorities in terms of the defence of Australia and not outmoded myths that haunt honourable members opposite. 
In foreign policy and defence policy in the 1970s and 1980s Australia must satisfy at least 3 criteria. Firstly, it must satisfy national security. Secondly, it must allow Australia to satisfy other national objectives such as welfare and quantitative advancement of our national life. Thirdly, it should allow us to contribute to humane purposes beyond Australia. But let us look at national security. I want to make the point very clearly that we are not necessarily better defended if we buy equipment immediately without any thought for the future. We have bought so much equipment already that has been made measurably obsolete - for example, the Red Eye missiles. Other countries such as Canada and Sweden, which do think their defence situations through, are not thinking of making the mistakes that the Opposition would have us make. 
 There have been a lot of words about morale. Admiral V. A. T. Smith said in relation to morale that the answer lies in providing sophisticated techniques and in some broadening of military activity into the community help field. I do not think there is any difference between this peacetime role and that of any other peacetime period. I believe that we can accept the passive role over a long period, and there would be nothing new in this. Admiral Smith went on to state that even in the Vietnam commitment we had only a small proportion of our forces committed to the field. We do face a morale situation in the Army, mainly because this high level of skill and expertise developed in Vietnam cannot be preserved for any great length of time. I do not think we should apologise for not having the Army at. present committed to war. What we have done in our first defence budget is spend more on salaries and on housing, and this was long overdue. The previous Government would not even bring in the Defence Forces retirement benefits scheme. 
Let us look at the defence situation apart from as it is as stated in the motion. As I said, no study on the defence of Australia has ever been done. Unless we intend to establish all our equipment overseas it is clear that we could handle any attacker of Australia at present and into the near future. I have had figures taken out and these show that no country in Asia, including China, today has a capability to invade our continent, nor is any of these countries likely to have the capacity to do so in under 5 to 10 years. If any of them did we would know about it. No country in history has ever invaded a continent over water with any skerrick of success. Sweden, which does think its defence policies through, is a model for much of what we should do. Sweden has 500 to 610 planes available at any one time and it has an air force of 11,700 men, which is about half the number that we have. We have one aircraft to 75 men, but the Swedes are 3 times as efficient. They also have 1,000 tanks because they have used their heads in thinking out defence policy. Just as we necessarily are no better defended by buying all equipment now, our defence is not necessarily guaranteed by having large numbers of soldiers just for the sake of having large numbers. Soldiers in my electorate grizzle because of the dullness of their duties. 
Let us look at our defence situation. I am not stating that we will not order in this term of Parliament a replacement for the Mirage, but let us look at the capability of the Mirage aircraft. Critics argue that it is dangerous to delay the decision to replace the Mirage fighter by one year because the aircraft is becoming obsolete. The reply to this argument can be in 2 areas. Firstly, is the aircraft now seriously outperformed by potential enemies, and secondly will the aircraft be able to remain airworthy until a replacement comes into service? In relation to the first point, in order to maintain the charge that the Mirage is obsolete critics must be able to establish the context in which they see the aircraft operating. In other words, against which air forces and which types of aircraft is the Mirage likely to be committed? Secondly, they must defend what parameters of aircraft performance they see as now making the Mirage obsolete. In the period up to 1980, where is the Mirage likely to meet a superior fighter aircraft? In our area of immediate strategic interest Indonesia is operating Avon Sabres which the Australian 
Government provided that country's Air Force and which were phased out in this country to make way for the Mirage. 
Singapore has no air superiority fighters in the usual sense of the definition.  Her  most usual fighter type is the Hawker Hunter which was manufactured in the 1960s. These aircraft have a performance equivalent to that of the Sabres and are nowadays employed in the ground attack role, as are the refurbished United States Navy A4 Skyhawk fighter bombers which Singapore is also buying. The A4 aircraft has little air to air fighter capability - this being mainly for self defence - because it lacks the avionics and weaponry as well as the performance for offensive counter air operations. To find technologically comparable fighter aircraft one would have to go as far abroad as either North Vietnam, China or Japan. The 2 former countries operate variants of the Mig 21, whilst the latter country operates F-4 Phantoms. Both of these aircraft have been shown in combat, either between the Israelis and Arab countries, India and Pakistan, or the United States and North Vietnam, to be roughly comparable. The outcome of any fight between them usually depends on the skill and dedication of the pilots involved. When one speaks of Australian Mirages having to go as far abroad to meet a technologically equivalent threat, this is a quite literal statement since fighter aircraft are characteristically short ranged and have to operate from bases only a few hundred miles apart. 
 I intend making a few theoretical points on the very complex issue of power. The Australian Government, in its foreign policy actions and announcements since December 1972, has placed Australia's standing in the international community as one of having accorded to reality. There are initiatives that we well may make and in our enlightened self-interest in dealings with other nations that we will continue to develop and advance. We are not drifting into anyone's orbit and our approach and actions on some recent matters have reflected maturity more than independence. However, in the future for the most part we will find that we are one actor among many and that more importance will be attached to even our minor moves with respect to issues as they arise by others rather than by people in our own country: 
In short, I believe that our foreign affairs can now be run more by professionals and that some political moves will be more often postures for diplomats to use in their slow, constant task for negotiation, compromise and pursuit of international harmony. But I do not underrate the purely political moves. The slowness of foreign affairs is demonstrated by the way in which slogans attach to a world condition. If the condition changes quickly there is a long time before the change is perceived by the general community. Of more importance is that a certain stance by a major power or powers dictates events far beyond the time of the policy's currency but this also can be exploited beneficially. 
The latest slogan attaching to world conditions is that we have changed from a world strategic situation of bipolarity to one of multipolarity. The accepted version of this is that the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics alone no longer dictate the pattern of events, and that China, the European Economic Community and Japan are now significant in the ordering of world affairs. I am not sure that Japan yet fits into the league of America, Russia and China. At the same time I am of the opinion that forces other than military strength will be of more significance in the future. I do not believe that we have true multipolarity. We are certainly in a period of great flux. I think it can be said that this political flux displays on its diplomatic surface 3 interacting trends at present. Firstly, there is a breaking down of cold war coalitions; secondly, the rise of non-security issues to the top of diplomatic agendas, and thirdly, a diversification of friendships and adversary relations. These surface movements are evidence of very significant economic and social forces which, if successfully exploited by statesmen and diplomats, may change the ingredients of power itself in the future. 
Both the United States and the Soviet Union are not as concerned today if smaller countries formerly in their orbit in the 1950s and 1960s move to non-alignment, neutrality or even to other coalitions mainly because military technology has limited the need for forward bases, not only for strategic deterrents but also for combat and reconnaisance. The impact of technology on strategy is of fundamental importance, as I see it. Although Eastern Europe is retained by Russia as a wall, this is more for ideological and political reasons than for military reasons. Smaller nations have been allowed to pursue more pragmatic independent lines in economic negotiations, and freer play has been given to conflicts in this area. When previously protection against a military threat was the main concern, coalitions of nations held and the subordination of special economic, political and cultural interests to the requirements of common defence was readily accepted. Although these requirements have not passed they are and have been breaking up for a considerable time, and I even see this process extending to the Warsaw Pact countries in the future. 
The disintegration of global bipolarity has allowed greater interchange between countries formerly in the common defence bloc as before the superpower was always heavily involved. Previously non-aligned countries such as India and Indonesia played the field without the hope of the long-run success that they now have. Thus more and more divergencies in world view or differences in social systems are insufficient to bar cordial relations among countries. If these tendencies continue to mature along the lines stated, an international system whose characteristics are grossly different not only from the bipolar world but also from previous balance of power relations could emerge in the 1980s. It is possible, but always recognising the possibility of unpredictable contingencies at the same time, that the nature of international power itself will change. If power is defined as the capacity of a country to influence other countries to accede to its objectives, then in a system characterised by multiple and cross-cutting coalitions formed around a variety of issues, mainly economic, the political currency of international power will be promissory notes on the lines of a wheeling and dealing operation - 'We will support you on this issue if you support us on that'. The power maximising country would be the one that could most successfully negotiate a situation where its pledges always would be honoured and valued. But such a system would allow poorer countries to have increased bargaining strength in terms of their own ability to form coalitions. 
Although hitherto power has been in the form of promises to apply or withhold military capabilities - this still would be paramount in vital security issues - this will have little utility compared with other forms of power, even a negative effect, in bargaining over non-security issues. The threat of the use of military power may debase one's bargaining currency. 
Although America and Russia still will be best placed to be the most powerful, due to their control of resources, it will be constructive co-operation with smaller countries that will win them more votes in global and regional forums. The European Economic Community could well emerge as an equally powerful unit due to its techno-economic capability, cultural ties, geography and diplomatic skills. For example, the EEC can form a better bridge with the Eastern European countries and is well placed to develop its former colonies in Africa. Japan will remain behind the bigger three as it is resource dependent but the gaining of military capability will not help it. In fact, Japan is maximising power in future terms as I see them by skilled resource diplomacy. Japan has not the advantages of the European Economic Community in terms of historic community ties. To escalate a dispute over economic matters would surely alienate a larger number of her suppliers. 
China also will have to rely on skilful diplomacy rather than an exchange of material assets. It may be able to champion third world countries and be their nuclear leader, but the limits of this will be the degree to which the other 4 great power blocs provide assistance to them. China can be expected to try to drive wedges between East Europe and the USSR for world communist leadership. But China will never be a large enough market or source of products to exceed most other regional groupings which will arise. I do not think that we will have a five sided balance of power, because the usable kinds of power are not commensurate. China and Russia pose the only serious military threat to world stability at present. In nonmilitary terms, the USSR and the Comecon countries are more in need of commerce than vice versa. Yet socialist countries may be able to manouvre more quickly in many commercial matters. There will be an enormous need to settle questions of access to space, ocean environments and ecological standards. 
So rather than multi-polarity which implies hegemony, I believe we shall see a full blown system of multiple interdependence where power is exercised largely in the form of constructive exchanges of valued resources. The threat to this proposition, of course, is still the flashpoints present in the world's trouble spots, for instance, the United States of America in South East Asia, the USSR in Czechoslovakia and the Middle East - all of which are well known to us. Great responsibility rests on the 
United States and the USSR to exercise self restraint in their future demands, otherwise Japan, India, Brazil and other countries will go nuclear. The wealthiest countries will have to refrain from establishing competitive spheres of economic dominance in the countries that they will influence. Leading economic countries will have to allow more interdependence to develop amongst lesser countries. The world's rich will have to do a little more about the world's poor and new sets of international laws on environment and conservation issues will be needed. 
All that I have said sounds rather idealistic. But the stark alternatives and conditions to which I referred earlier give some reason for hope. If we cannot break away from the anachronistic habits of the past 300 years of international politics all we face is more bloody wars with the final conflict merely forestalled for 20 years. It should be obvious from what I have said that Australia has a place in the world community where it can act constructively without assigning itself a role which becomes fixed. We are now exercising our diplomatic skills in attempting to form new coalitions. We are aware of the resource diplomacy game and our mutual interdependence with Japan. We are trying to extend more aid to developing countries. We are taking a lot more notice of the use and benefits of the United Nations. We are now in a better position to influence the United States of America, as a sympathetic and constructively critical friend. We simply do not want the United States to kill people in our region for the sake of our own too easily developed sense of reactionary ethno-centricity. It is for those reasons that I am so hopeful for the continuing success of our foreign affairs, our policy initiatives and Australia's future in a hopefully more peaceful world. 
-Although, after the shocking performance of the Oppostion in yesterday's censure motion, my comments are not as current as they were last week, I rise to express my complete disgust and contempt for the vote of the Australian Country Party in its party room to deny the Government the Appropriation Bill and the actions of various Liberal members who are advocating denial of Supply. I am sickened by the rumours I have heard in this place over the last 2 weeks about the deals that are being attempted. Any move to deny Appropriation or Supply would be one of the gravest steps ever taken in the Australian Parliament. It would be one of grossest irresponsibility. If the 3 Opposition Parties were to agree on either of these measures and if numbers were used in the Senate - where all Australians are not even represented - to deny funds, the effect would be felt by all Australians and would cause much suffering, mainly to those unable to afford any loss of income. 
If the processes, customs and traditions of our parliamentary democracy were to be overturned, we would have a vacuum created in the way the affairs of the nation are run, and the processes of disbursement of money would be stopped. A chaotic situation could develop, and the income of thousands of pensioners, public servants and servicemen would be threatened. The Opposition says that to cut inflation we must cut Government spending, but it will never say where. The only other measure the Opposition proposes in respect of inflation is a 90-day wage and price freeze - something which honourable members opposite would never have done in government - which by itself would do nothing. What else do they think about - 200,000 people unemployed or the bankruptcy of industry? In fact, everywhere the Government has cut public spending there has been an uproar. No matter how justified some of the Government's measures have been, we have seen massive campaigns by the articulate and powerful in our community being orchestrated by the Opposition. 
To be consistent, they had better say where they will cut Government spending if they are re-elected. Similarly, if they intend denying Supply they had better say where. Which area are they going to single out for cynical reasons so that they may flirt with the electorate at a double dissolution? Are social security payments to be stopped? Are the Government's new programs to cease? Are the child care centres and pre-school programs which are to commence in 1974 to cease? Is the twelvefold increase in expenditure on public schools in 1974 and 1975 to be put at risk so that the genius of the per capita system can be reintroduced? Are the new cities programs to be sabotaged after all the planning work has been done? Do I have to tell the people in my electorate that nothing is certain while we have an election? This is the sort of thing that the Opposition proposes. Any move to deny the passage of the Appropriate Bill or the Supply Bill would be an assault on democracy. The British system makes it clear that the popular House is paramount in matters of Supply. There has never been a suggestion that the Upper House should exercise such powers, and the proposed action, if successful, is against all the traditions of our British system. It shows how intemperate the Opposition is when it discussed such matters while the monarch was in Australia. The Upper House is elected on a fancy franchise, is only a House of Review and has no power to deny Supply, morally or historically. 
What the actions of the Opposition amount to is its total gutlessness born of an arrogance perpetuating its view that it alone has a natural and divine right to govern. It should remember that in 1966, when we were slaughtered at the election we did not give up. Democracy, the will of the people, accepted practice, the law and order of our society are to be overturned so that the Opposition may attempt to regain power simply because the opinion polls are with it and it has plenty of money. The Opposition now exists by malappointment or gerrymander. The number of seats it wins in this house depends on the allocation of Democratic Labor party preferences. The House of Representatives is the only House in which a Government can be formed. Twenty-two Liberal members and 6 Country Party members sit in this chamber because of DLP preferences. Almost the majority of the Opposition's representation has been elected not on No. 1, not on No. 2 but on No. 3 votes in many cases. Some honourable members opposite have only 17 per cent of the popular vote. So it is no wonder there are those who would attempt to deny the democratic wishes of the Australian people. Last December the Australian people voted for a change of government. Of 6,642,627 votes cast in the 6 States only 2,718,684 went to the Liberal Party or the Country Party. The Australian Labor Party had to win some 505,042 votes above that figure to govern. The Australian people knew that any new government would inherit massive problems. The main reason the last Government was thrown out was its lassitude in tackling the problems it faced. I estimate that it takes one year to undo 3 years of conservative laissez-faire government, and all Australians with any sort of realistic view know that it will take the Australian Labor Party at least 2 terms in government to get the country back on the rails. 
The past Government's major initiative was to involve Australia in the Vietnam War and to try to keep the United States involved in our region. Any intelligent observer would realise that to effect any real changes for the better in the many areas of crisis and the mess we inherited as a result of a lack of sensibly directed public programs would involve some unpopular decisions. Policies from 1944 and beyond have never been re-examined, and our foreign policy was totally out of accord with reality. Good government is not necessarily popular government or the pandering to every sectional interest. The Opposition, urged on by opinion polls, forgets that at any time during a term in office a government's support may drop. 
How much support was there for the Liberal Party during the traumatic days when it sacked its own Prime Minister when in office - cut his throat in mid-term - because of the ambitions of those who sit on the benches opposite? How many Cabinet changes were there in the last Government? There were some 66 in 2 terms. In May 1971 there were 7 deposed Ministers on the back bench, as Ministers were chopped and changed as the power struggle went on within the Liberal Party. The back stabbing was intense, and even today the scars remain. It must be reassuring for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to know that there will be no move to depose him in this term. It is clear that all the animosities still remain; the suspicion held by the older members of the relatively newer members remains. The Opposition's is the same bitter Liberal Party and the same compromise coalition of disparate forces. We have the Liberals versus the Country Party in Victoria; shy friendship between the Country Party and the DLP in Western Australia; the Country Party in love with the DLP in Queensland and at arm's length in New South Wales. These are the men who wish to deny the Government trying to run the country and cause great suffering and disadvantage to the Australian people in their wish or hope for power motivated only by unprincipled opportune political gain. 
How prepared are the Opposition parties for Government? I was amazed by the sanctimonious views of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  I have always regarded him as the most capable member of the Opposition and even wrote to him personally at the time my predecessor so brutally cut his throat. But if you take the reasons he states for an election and denial of supply and look at them consistently you see that he should be the last to raise such a question of machiavellian proportions. Because he himself was destroyed by the newspapers and his colleagues, he is mistaken in thinking that the tables can be turned. If he thinks that his Party can capitalise on the Press campaign being waged in a few quarters, I think he is mistaken. We do not believe that a handful of journalists have such power. But this is the man who when he was Prime Minister had his own Minister for Defence resign and who provoked massive rows with the generals. This is the man who had $50m peeled off him in the 1971-72 Budget when he was Minister for Defence. That was about 2.9 per cent of the gross national product. This was when we were committed to Vietnam. This is the man who went to Papua New Guinea with a gun on his hip and who shot down plans to take over MLC Ltd. In this latter action he at least roused decent emotions and tried to prevent the sell-out of our resources, not even necessarily to the highest bidder. This is still in contrast to his colleagues who still want the open door policy even if we cannot use the reserves we pile up, even if our economy gets completely distorted. 
What is the Liberal and Country Party's foreign policy? In a speech at the University of Sydney the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said that he still sees the threat of communism as the main threat. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  sees Japan as the potential threat, and the Leader of the Opposition wants Japan to be more involved in the region militarily. Of course he now admits that even his Party would have recognised China eventually. The official Liberal Party spokesman agrees with all we are doing but does not like the way we are doing it. On other issues the Liberal Party and Country Party are trying to provoke hysteria. There are only a few members with the courage to state the facts as they see them and attack the Government on policy and principle as they see them. For example, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  attacked some of the doctors' campaign tactics with respect to the proposed national health scheme. A report on what he said about this matter states: 
But in its present form it Is not nationalisation of doctors. . . . But cliches are dropping out of mouths all around in the hope that people are idiots, will believe them and hate the national government and the Labor Party.' 

 Mr Chipp said many doctors' associations were opposing the Government's scheme because they claimed it would destroy the doctor-patient relationship. 
We allowed pensioners to be regarded by the medical profession and other professions as second class citizens,' he said. 
At the same time he attacks the Government where he sees the deficiencies in our scheme but he does not attack us just to add to the hysteria. The Fairfaxisation of our defence policies was recently spelt out in articles- 
I have a poem for honourable members, with apologies to John O'Brien. It reads: 
We'll all be rooned' said Anthony 
In accents most forlorn, 
Outside the House ere Question Time, 
One frosty Tuesday morn. 
The Country Party members stood about 
Coat-collars to the ears, 
And talked of stock, and crops and drought, 
As they had for twenty years. 
It's looking crook', Mac Holten said, 
Bedad it's crook me mate. 
For never since the banks went bad,  
Have seasons been so great' 
It's wet all right' said Brucey Lloyd, 
With which astute remark. 
He rolled right over on his soid 
And chewed a piece of bark. 
And so around the chorus ran, 
It's keepin' wet no doubt, 
We'll all be rooned' said Anthony, 
Before the year is out'. 
The crops are big, you'll have to work, 
To get them harvested and stored. 
From here way out to back o' Bourke, 
They're wanting bigger Fords. 
The cockies want us' Kingey said, 
But not one dam is dry, 
The Country members scratched their head 
And gazed around the sky. 
There's too much grass in any case, 
Too much for sheep and cows, 
There's too much grass on Sinclair's place. 
As I came down just now. 
The rain must stop soon' said McVeigh, 
And cleared his throat to speak, 
We'll all be rooned' said Anthony., 
If the rain don't stop thi' week.' 
A heavy silence seemed to steal, 
On all at this remark, 
And each man squatted on bis heel 
And chewed a piece of bark. 
We want a drought we do,' 
O'Keefe observed at last, 
But Nixon said they wanted two, 
To put the danger past. 
If we don't get drought and locusts. Bracey, 
Or behave like Samin' louts, 
We'll all be rooned' said Anthony, 
Before the year is out.' 
The reason I have just burst into verse is that I am overjoyed to learn that the farmers' income in the coming year is to rise by some SI, 000m. The thought of this strikes gloom into the hearts of honourable members opposite, but I am very happy. On a serious note, I know there are many qualifications one can put on this but coupled with figures now becoming available of changes in the structure of rural debt, it simply cannot be denied that things overall are a lot better than they have been for a long time. 
That is right. Estimates put gross income in the rural sector up by SI, 201m in the coming year with net income up by S986m or an increase of some 52 per cent. As honourable members opposite say, the big change is mainly due to the seasons and the markets overseas. This looks good on the surface but it is not evenly distributed and we accept that; it is only representing short term stability. Flexibility in rural industries is very desirable but exceptionally hard to achieve. But again talking of the overall situation - talking more in the macro - in an article in the latest Australian 'Quarterly' written by  Mr J.  B. Paul that is largely critical of the Government, the writer states: 
The Cabinet's ready adoption of the 25 per cent tariff cut contrasts oddly and rather sadly with its watering down of the recommendations on reduction of assistance to rural industry put forward by the task force headed by  Dr H.  C. Coombs to appraise critically policies inherited from past governments. The two decisions taken together amount to a redistribution of income in favour of primary producers on a scale which Country Party Ministers were unable to match while in office as coalition partners of the Liberals; though with McEwenite policies in the ascendant there was Utile likelihood of such policies being adopted even if favoured by the Liberals. Hence the political reactions to these decisions, especially to the tariff cut, provided a great deal of amusement. In their unaccustomed role as revisionists of Australia's high tariff orthodoxy, the Labor Party could claim to have become more truly a free enterprise party than its avowed free enterprise opponents; yet  Mr Snedden  accused them of implementing a socialist policy. Of course his situation was awkward: it was not so much as if the Labor Party had stolen the Liberals' clothes while they were bathing, for the Liberals had never bad the guts to wear those particular clothes; Labor had simply taken them unworn from where they had been hidden from view under a protective layer of moth balls. 
The major primary industry in the electorate of Macarthur is dairying and there are very few dairy farmers who are actually ecstatically happy with the Budget. They are worried mainly about the phasing out of the free milk scheme for school children which will cause a 4 per cent drop in sales which will not be regained for at least a year. However, there are some countervailing factors. They are not so concerned about the dropping of the investment allowance and the accelerated depreciation allowance because, quite simply, they have never been allowed to produce all the milk they can in the safest area of the State. 
The main problem they face is with respect to arrangements within the State which at present the Liberal-Country Party Government of New South Wales is poking down their throats. Ja a situation where their farms are becoming too valuable to farm in any case, they are alarmed that negotiability of quotas is to cease and that transferability will not be allowed. They were conned at the time of the extension of quota arrangements to take in the whole State. The deal was that they were to get one-third of the increase in the basic milk quotas from an increase in overall demand, with two-thirds going to the new zone. Due to the genius of the Country Party in New South Wales, the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Crawford,  recently admitted in the New South Wales Parliament, in answer to a question from  Mr Maliana,  M.L.A. for Campbelltown, that. New South Wales actually imported 3 million gallons of milk last year, some 700,000 gallons going to Canberra. He also admitted that spot checks had shown that there was added water, bacteria and antibiotics in the supplies. 
This is the situation dairy farmers face in my electorate. They are not allowed to produce all they can or to have access to a fair increase of the metropolitan market close by, and yet they must tolerate imports of milk from Victoria. Farmers are completely dissatisfied with their organisation which has become a political tool and recently 35 out of 55 members of one local branch of the New South Wales Dairy Farmers Association resigned at one meeting. Before I leave dairying, I should simply like to say that I thought the butter and cheese subsidy should have been phased out over 4 years and not 2 years and that the 2-pool plan will be the best plan for dairy products in general, so long as more positive incentives can be provided for the production of other products. The Australian and South Australian Governments at present are co-operating in a project in this regard and the process being developed will flow through to the Dairy Produce Board. The project concerns a butter vegetable oil spread which will be patented. 
The allocation in the Budget of $47m for rural reconstruction was particularly welcome and before people swallow too much of the gloom opposite, it is instructive to learn that interest rates are still at 4 per cent with 6.25 per cent being charged for farm build-up loans. Of this finance, 60 per cent will be used for farm build-up in the coming year and recently there has been no rush of farmers for reconstruction money. Since its inception 2 years ago, some 3,433 farmers have been assisted for reconstruction and 1,485 have been assisted for farm build-up. Some $154m has now been voted towards the scheme and it is essential that this scheme should continue. I hope that the Government will continue to concentrate on schemes of this kind and the Industries Assistance Commission Bill with which the House dealt the other day was further evidence of this. I am sure that the Australian Country Party will find that it is as out of step with some rural organisations in opposing this Bill, as it was in opposing the tariff cuts. At least the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  the official Opposition spokesman on primary industry, has realised the potential advantages of the plan. 
I am pleased to see that the allocation of money to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been marginally increased, not only because I may need to get a job there again one day but also because of moves within the Bureau to establish an enlarged marketing analysis function. 
 No, it will be about 1990, I think. Producing primary products is not the major problem in many industries so much as selling them. Marketing is not just selling and there is an enormous amount of work to be done in respect of classification of products, responsiveness of market demand and the need for market information. Too much of the work of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at present by necessity is devoted to out of date statistics, and valuable as such work is, I believe that its move into marketing analysis is very praiseworthy. Time will not allow me to speak on some of the economic matters involved in trying to minimise price movements, but the costs of marketing immediately are apprehended by all primary producers. For example, only 2.7 per cent of the price of a $70 wool suit sold in 1971-72 went, to the producer. 
One primary industry that will be affected by the decision to wipe the 20 per cent investment allowance and the accelerated depreciation allowance will be the broiler industry. At a time when we need to produce all the meat we can, it is absurd to say that a 3 per cent depreciation rate is realistic for broiler growers. To a broiler grower the shed is his farm. Given the requirements of the integrators there is no way that a shed will last for 33 years. I can only trust that the Treasury will give sensible consideration to my submission for a more realistic 6 per cent to 7i per cent rate of depreciation. The broiler industry is still trying to unite to gain the protection of the government. I am afraid the States will still not be sufficiently in agreement with the Australian Government to act at the next Agricultural Council meeting. 
The Trade Practices Bill which, I suppose, will be rejected by the Opposition in the Senate, will provide a decent basis for broiler growers to negotiate contracts that are real contracts and give equity to the grower to allow him to have his investments protected. Integration is a process of primary production that probably is here to stay for quite a while and has aspects to recommend to the overall community. But the basic element of distrust that is inevitably present in the arrangements means that some form of agreement arising out of negotiations needs to be established. If agreement cannot be reached, there is need- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Scholes)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My electorate at present is absorbing most of the southward growth of the cities of Sydney and Wollongong. In 10 months, electoral enrolments have risen by nearly 13,000. Most of this growth is in the Campbelltown and DaptoKiama sub-divisions. With this sort of growth, obviously there will be enormous pressure on land for building purposes, and land prices have been rocketing not only because of the demand but also because of speculation and inadequate action at the State and local government levels. There are only 1,000 acres of land left in the area immediately south of Wollongong in my electorate which is not now owned or spoken for. 
As honourable members are aware, at present the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is negotiating with each of the States with a view to forming land commissions whereby Australian Government money can be spent through the States for the purchase of land so that land may be developed and leased or sold at cost. The New South Wales Government has wisely placed a freeze on land prices in the southwest sector of Sydney and some stabilisation of the giddy spiral may be effected. However, unless the State Government nominates an area there is no way the Australian Government can desirably affect land prices. It goes without saying that there is much more that State and local government can do if they use their powers or their heads. For example, section 10 of the State housing advances legislation now allows the States to do something with respect to even their housing commissions. 
There are few local government areas in my electorate where there are not constant rumours and alarm about alleged land deals and corruption, but rarely can anything be proved. I heard recently that land to be sold at Nowra at 6 o'clock in the morning by the Lands Department of New South Wales was all sold by 6.10 that morning. Many allegations have been made in the Shellharbour Shire Council by a councillor about an estate known as Nob Hill at Albion Park. I do not wish to comment too much on the allegations because I have no proof one way or the other. The issue has been canvassed widely on television and in the local Press. But I have a pretty firm idea about what is happening. 
My colleague in the New South Wales State Parliament,  Mr George  Petersen, the Member of the Legislative Assembly for Illawarra, made a speech on this matter on 20 September 1973. He pointed out that a firm known as Fender Management, on the application of a  Mr Moclair,  received approval in principle from the Shellharbour Shire Council in October 1972 to develop 295 blocks of land at Albion Park over an area of 75.5 acres with 14.48 acres of open space. But a strange thing happened: Without changing the title, without providing a bit of kerb and guttering, without obtaining a certificate of availability of water from the Water Board and without obtaining a guarantee of electricity supply from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, the land is being sold by  Mr Peter  Wilson to unsuspecting home buyers  -  311 lots now - at prices ranging from $10,500 to $14,000. By the previous map issued to the Council, he was to reserve 14.48 acres of open space; but on the map now available to the Council there are only 3 tiny lots of open space that appear to be about 5 acres altogether. 
Who approved this? It is alleged that it was not the Council. There has been no approval of the Council although it now has a copy of the revised map. The 'Illawarra Mercury* of last Saturday quotes  Mr Wilson  as having said: 
I attended a meeting at the Council with the Mayor, engineer and town clerk. The whole subdivision has been approved. 
As I have said, by 28 August some 119 of 311 lots had been sold at prices ranging from $10,500 to $14,000 and averaging $12,000. What sort of set up is it when that type of trafficking takes place? If it did take place in that way, one must take serious account of local government and the way in which it acts. Surely there is a need for tightening the legislation. Surely such matters should be investigated. If it is found that these matters are being handled in that way and that no regard is being had to decisions of democratically elected local government, and if speculators can go their own merry way without getting approval from the local planning authorities, it is time that the Housing Commission and other authorities took up all land development. I used to think that the State Planning Authority held the whiphand too much, but these sorts of things alarm me greatly. If we take, for example, the average cost of a block of land at $12,000 and consider that all the developer has done. is to knock a few trees over, a 10 per cent deposit on that block would amount to $1,200 and the development costs would average $3,000. So it looks as though the so-called developer is using deposits to finance the development of the blocks. 
I put it frankly: These developers were granted approval subject to the guarantee of water availability, and they did not get that guarantee. It is unlikely that they will get it because some areas are so high that a reservoir would be needed before water could be piped to them. The developers were granted approval subject to developing some areas as high rise areas. Normally that is an indication to a land developer to write his own ticket and to make his own bank, but the developers in this case have not done that because obviously they are short of capital. As far as I can see, they simply wanted to use the purchasers' money. They are not interested in providing facilities for people. I do not want to go into this matter to a great extent, but I have here an advertisement for Nob Hill which sets it out. It is typical of many of these real estate advertisements. They contain nice drawings. I think there is a good case for saying that much of this is dishonest and untruthful advertising. 
It has been stated that the Shellharbour Municipal Council had approved the development in principle subject to certain conditions. The Council admits that certain conditions have not been complied with, but officers of the Council maintain that it is not altogether the Council's fault and that nothing has been done illegally. A 34b certificate from the Water Board has to be obtained before final approval can be given but, as I have said, it has not been obtained. All this is subject to much local controversy and I have no intention of commenting publicly on it as the situation is obvious for all to see. The  Mr Wilson  whom I named said in the 'Illawarra Mercury' of 15 September 1973 that he had offered people their money back. I do not know what he means by this. I believe that this practice has commonly been described as 'gazumping' The point I make is that if these sorts of operations can go on where land is not developed before it is sold under rather strange conditions, then surely governments should be able to enter into land deals on the same basis. At least if developers are to be allowed to develop land after they have accepted money on it, a government could give more stable guarantees and security to purchasers. I think that local government could well act as agents for this process, and as much funds would not be needed it seems to me to be obvious that a lot more could be done. I think that one of the greatest blights on the present Government in New South Wales is its failure to act on land prices. In fact, it exploits the market itself ruthlessly. I think that  Sir Robert  Askin promised a royal commission on prices in 1971. He has not kept that promise. People in my electorate feel that the Commonwealth will involve itself in land dealings but it will concentrate on only a few selected areas. They realise that money cannot be spent all over the State and that land prices cannot be brought under control everywhere, but when these sorts of deals are going on the people cannot understand why Commonwealth, State or local governments cannot act on their behalf. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. As it has been alleged by some State governments that money has been taken away, will the Minister inform the House on the situation in respect of grants to the States for tertiary education? 
In the remaining time available I wish to make a few points on behalf of the Illawarra Regional 
Health Committee with respect to the report of the Committee on medical schools to the Australian Universities Commission. As honourable members are aware, the Committee recommended that in New South Wales the existing 2 schools should either increase or maintain projected output of graduates, that the University of Newcastle should establish a school in 1977 and that the question of a school at Australian National University in the Australian Capital Territory should be deferred for 3 years. This decision was a bitter blow to members of the Illawarra Regional Health Committee, as a wide cross-section of the community had participated in forwarding its submission. People from industry, government, the University of Newcastle, hospitals, and medical and nursing professions made submissions. The Committee had the services of  Dr W.  Corlis from the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and  Dr John  Stevens who is familiar with the ramifications of the content of the submission and who has had experience in the universities of Birmingham and London. 
The Committee's submission concentrated on the regionalisation of comprehensive health services and the integration of medical education with the delivery of health care to be achieved by services to be delivered to the community by an integrated health care team. The Illawarra region is typically a densely populated industrial area with every social problem in clear focus. To cope with modern conditions and to give a lead in medical training in areas where everyone is affluent the Committee felt that a new type of medical graduate trained to deliver personal medical care should be produced. It maintained that a new type of doctor was needed - a person trained as a clinician of the highest order, sure of his role in society, willing to learn and teach and capable of working with other health personnel. The involvement of the trainee in the community from the commencement of his undergraduate program was to be an essential feature of the training period. 
Due to my constant petitioning of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  - I think he takes it as persecution sometimes - I am now known as the member for Campbelltown telephones. Before I get on to that subject, as the Post Office is now undergoing an inquiry into all of its activities - I am sure it will touch on many of the areas that honourable members on both sides of the House have been raising - I thought it might be a proper time to speak briefly on the Post Office as an institution. The Post Office is a service and it is easily the biggest enterprise in Australia. Historically it has been a government operation because no private organisation could run postal services at a profit. It is proper that the Government should be involved in central operations of the nation's communications whether they be post, telephone or telecommunications. The real value of communications cannot be assessed simply in terms of profit and loss. The criteria for efficiency in communications, especially in a land where distance is the central fact of life, must be service. That is the ultimate product. Communication is something in which the whole community shares and from which the whole community benefits. It is too important to be thrown into the market place where standards of right or wrong, adequate or inadequate service, cannot be determined simply by profits. 
There are many fallacies behind the criticisms of the Post Office and these are often based on the view that it should be run as a business. Certainly we should strive, as I know the Postmaster-General's Department does, to run it efficiently. The service provided should be at the lowest cost and it should involve the minimum number of people. There is a need to ensure that we do not spend money foolishly. It would be absurd to establish an automatic telephone exchange to service a few homes. Nevertheless, communications in this nation are too important to be left to businessmen. Businessmen are profit oriented. That may be all right in its place. However, the principal communication systems of this country are run by the Post Office. They meet needs and requirements, the importance and significance of which are unknown to a profit oriented organisation. Service oriented management is very different from profit oriented management. I say quite firmly that in my view the Post Office, by its nature, should maintain a direct and clear responsibility to this Parliament. It would be a fundamental error, in my opinion, for us to be deluded by slogans about running the Post Office efficiently or on a proper business basis. 
We must recognise clearly that the communications systems in this country serve many social purposes, so obvious that they go unnoticed. Communications are the central infrastructure of our social, economic and business systems. Unfortunately, in my opinion the composition of the inquiry into the Post Office suggests that there is an over-emphasis on business notions as opposed to the social objectives which should and must underlie a proper national communications system. The idea that the Post Office should be removed from politics is very old. As to the question whether the Post Office can be removed, this has been tried in the United Kingdom and the United States of America without many noticeable effects. In fact, in the United Kingdom the Conservative Government found it necessary to sack the head of the so-called independent postal authority because he proposed to levy postal rates at a level that even that Government considered to be unacceptable. Overall, Australia at the present time compares well with other countries in relation to the cost of the postal services which it provides. But I would like to say as a matter of philosophy that if the commission of inquiry supports the setting up of a statutory corporation there will be immense problems. 
In analysing the Post Office I believe that there are 2 central factors to be considered: Firstly, it is a service organisation of the highest significance and the ordinary profit and loss notions of efficiency are simply irrelevant and inapplicable in a nation of great distances. 
Secondly, we must ensure that in our search for more effective organisation of postal and telephone services we keep clearly in mind that it is a community service of such importance that this Parliament cannot abdicate either its responsibility or its control. I think one could almost say the worst crime we could commit in this area would be to establish an independent, supposedly efficient, authority which later was shown to operate as a gigantic Government underwritten monopoly. I think if we had this situation we would have an authority that would become contemptuous. Already there are too many unions in the PostmasterGeneral's area of operations. I think we could get a worse situation if we had a Post Office statutory corporation. This is only my personal opinion but I think there are great problems in whatever recommendations come out of this inquiry. 
Our role - the role of this Parliament - is to ensure that the Post Office gives good service at minimum cost.  We must see that it remains genuinely responsive to the communication needs of the country. I believe that the political process is the best way democracies can deal with non-rational matters and that as the Post Office cannot perform on totally rational criteria it should remain under ministerial control. But I look forward to the recommendations of the commission which is working assiduously on the matters that many honourable members have raised. I also point out that some people are criticising the Post Office because courier services, for example, are supposed to deliver letters more quickly in cities. This seems to be a matter of confusion in the minds of many because the Post Office has to provide a service to all of Australia. If organisations can come in and simply skim the cream off the top, then they are not providing a service. I am not saying that the Post Office remaining under ministerial control should not aim at efficiency, cannot be improved or that the structure itself cannot be made more efficient. It may be essential to separate the postal departments from the telecommunications area. 
But the Post Office - I think we all must acknowledge this - faces immense problems. The demand for telephones is running at an all time record level and growing exponentially. Last year some 322,000 new telephones were connected, and some 263,000 were installed the year before, making a total of 580,000. Last year $392m was spent yet we find that at 30 June this year 89,617 telephones still remained unconnected, and that is an increase of 24,000 on last year's figure. This year an amount of $454.6m will be spent on telecommunications plant and equipment. Delays in connecting telephones are great and in this context there has been a need for a second look at some of the practices of the previous Government. I believe that .the average household telephone connection costs between $1,500 and $2,000. Most household telephones do not yield a profit during the life of the telephone or the life of the household. What are the alternatives? Should we put up the connection fee immensely, abolish rental charges and increase telephone rates slightly? Should we aim for an overall tariff throughout Australia such as we have with postal facilities? All these things are under constant review. I am sure that the Postmaster-General has officers in his Department working on them. 
I must compliment the postal and telephone managers in the electorate of Macarthur. The electorate is growing fast. One area, Campbelltown, will have nearly 250,000 people by the end of the century. There will be about 500,000 people in 3 towns in the district. The services are getting better even during the nine or ten months I have been privileged to be the member for Macarthur. They are getting better in the Shoalhaven area, but again at great cost. It has been estimated that it will cost between $80,000 and $100,000 to connect 40 new subscribers. There is a problem in some areas of the electorate of Macarthur where people have sold out in the city areas at great profit and have installed themselves down on the coast with a low priced block of land and immediately demand a telephone service. There is also a problem in regard to a lack of planning, a lack of phasing planning and a lack of co-ordination between the Australian and State governments. For example, in the Narellan area there was industrial subdivision without any consideration of whether telephone facilities would be available. 
As I said at the beginning of my short speech, telephone services in Campbelltown are my biggest problem. At the present time Campbelltown is just on the edge of the Sydney telephone district. The fact that it is in another charging zone causes constant dis sension among people in the Campbelltown area, particularly business men who find that their telephone bills are virtually double what they would be if their telephone installation was a mile closer to Sydney. If the straight lines which at present delineate the Sydney telephone district were replaced with a circle Campbelltown would be just inside the Sydney area. But Camden, Appin and the other major growth areas, the other major extensions of Sydney which are presently in the Campbelltown district, would be left out. 
The problem that the Postmaster-General faces is that if he extends the Sydney zone call rate to Campbelltown it would have to be extended to all the marginal areas of all capital cities, and this would cost at least another $llm. If the call rate were made cheaper in all these areas the immediate demand on the telephone facilities would be such that the lines would jam. Campbelltown is one of the key areas of the Government's planning in the south-west sector, and I think that the Department of Urban and Regional Development must give the matter I have raised special consideration. A small concession has been given in telephone call rates but yet rentals have gone up. It may be reasonable that rentals throughout Australia should be the same, but this is causing real problems for pensioners. 
Again I must thank the Postmaster-General for the measures he has undertaken so far with respect to the undergrounding of aerial telephone lines. This also is a matter that has caused immense problems in the Campbelltown area, but in Campbelltown the council is able to phase in telephone lines underground with the electricity lines, and the flat development code has allowed this service to be carried out much more cheaply than in other like areas. I thank the PostmasterGeneral for the concessions he is now making and the way in which he has been able to work with other authorities. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Can he say how many persons sponsored by volunteer organisations were employed in Papua New Guinea in (a) 1970, (b) 1971 and (c) 1972. 
If so, from which countries did they come. 
What was the contribution of the Australian Government towards the agencies sponsoring the volunteers. 
What is the basis of this contribution. 
Who employed the persons referred to in part (1). 
How many of them were employed by the Papua New Guinea Administration. 
Last Thursday night I spoke for 2 minutes in the adjournment debate, mainly in support of the Illawarra Regional Health Committee and its contentions regarding the report of the Australian Universities Commission Committee on medical schools - another Karmel committee. I was debating some of the findings of the report of this Karmel Committee. The main reason why I raised this matter was that some very good principles were inherent in the scheme which the Illawarra Regional Health Committee put to the Universities Commission for evaluation. The Committee suggested a community based medical training scheme. Under this scheme people in the various medical areas could receive training for 4 years and then they could receive a higher degree of training for a further 4 years. This applied particularly to general practitioners. 
Since that time the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has announced that certain grants will be made to the States to develop mental health, alcoholism and drug dependency centres. I am pleased to say that much of what the Minister said regarding the aims and objectives of these various centres supports very much my contentions and the contentions of the Illawarra Regional Health Committee with respect to the sort of medical training that it proposes for the Illawarra area. 
I shall refer briefly to what the Minister proposes for the Illawarra area. In the field of mental health, for Wollongong he proposes the establishment of a main community centre which will provide front line community service for assessing and treating areas of psychiatric morbidity. It is proposed to establish at Warrawong a community-based psychiatric facility to relieve the extreme stresses on the Port Kembla hospital. In Warilla-Shellharbour the objective is to provide facilities for a rapidly expanding area with sparse health and welfare facilities. In Cringila it is proposed to provide psychiatric facilities in association with other services. Probably no other area on the South Coast, or no suburb of Wollongong needs this facility more than Cringila. In Dapto it is proposed to establish a shop front centre which will initiate a mental health service in a rapidly expanding area. In Corrimal it is proposed to initiate a mental health service in the social centre of a large area. 
In the field of alcoholism, in Wollongong the proposal is to provide a major central ser vice for the assessment and treatment of alcohol problems. In regard to drug dependency, it is proposed to establish a 'drop-in' centre in Wollongong for counselling, evaluation and diagnosis, and program treating, The total amount of the grants for the Wollongong area is $2 13.000. The reason why so much emphasis was placed on the Illawarra region in the Minister's announcement was the degree of the problems that exist in the area. This is why I am so pleased that further emphasis is being given to my contentions with respect to the very detailed and vigorous work that has been carried out by the Illawarra Regional Health Committee. The schemes which the Committee suggested were similar to those that are operating in Leiden in Holland and in Nottingham in the United Kingdom. 
The Committee recommended the concept of a 4-year course for a diploma of medical education. It was to provide a common training ground for general practitioners, specialists, nursing teachers, hospital administrators, health officers - both public and industrial - teachers college lecturers and various paramedical staff. The course was to have introduced the concept of co-ordinated community health services, such as geriatrics, mental health, rehabilitation, industrial health, community nursing and minimal care, drug dependency and alcoholism centres. A bachelor of education degree in health services could have followed from the diploma of medical education, but for general practitioners a further 4 years of in-depth vocational training selected by the diplomate would have followed, and it would have been to world standard and science based. 
The autonomous University of Wollongong was to have been the academic centre for the 3 local hospitals, for industries and for community organisations and it was to provide training facilities. The populaton in the area is sufficient to provide all the raw material, if I can put it that way - the people needed to train others in these medical areas. I have always been disturbed to find that the Wollongong-Port Kembla area, which is the seventh largest city area in Australia, seems to miss out on so many governmental measures. Honourable members cannot understand the problems of the area unless they have been there. It is a cold, blunt fact that there has been less expenditure per head on most public services in this area. 
There is always heavy unemployment in the area, poverty is widespread, industrial accidents are common, migrant and youth problems are acute, public transport is woefully inadequate and roads are hopeless. I join with the Illawarra Regional Health Committee in its contention that insufficient attention was paid to its submissions. There would have been a unique opportunity for the proper integration of health education with the health service needs of the community. The involvement of the trainee with the community from an early stage and the type of curriculum proposed would have ensured that the great majority of trainees would have entered general practice. The undergraduate course for the training of community nurses and clinical psychologists which also was proposed would have had common aspects with the medical course so that all people in it could have worked as a team. These innovatory projects would have made the proposed medical school of world interest. 
The particular needs of the region were carefully considered, and ways to offer appropriate migrant health centres and other community services were proposed. The probable amalgamation of the University of Wollongong and the teachers college offered an exciting possibility to involve teachers more in the health needs of the community so that effective health education and meaningful human relations leading to better mental health could have been fostered in all of the schools. The Karmel Committee identified a need for more general practitioners, yet I think it ignored the advice of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners which, because of the better community orientation of the Wollongong hospital and the nature of the proposed curriculum, supported the Wollongong submission over that of Newcastle. The policy of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners is against extensive hospital out-patient departments which have tried to replace general practice. Research done over the last 7 years by the Research Fellow of the New South Wales Faculty of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners has indicated that the replacement rate of general practitioners in Australia needs to be more than 400 per annum - approximately 140 in New South Wales. In Australia at present there is an overall shortage of 1,200 to 1,500 general prac titioners - approximately 400 in New South Wales - and this is further accentuated by maldistribution. 
The Illawarra region is undoubtedly a growth centre. It is lacking in many health and other services because of its rapid growth, and it is likely to become a disaster area. Already the savage crime rate is 50 per cent higher than the rate for the rest of New South Wales. The large migrant population and the problems of industrialisation offer a special challenge. The fact that Townsville is also a growth centre, that hospital facilities and health services are needed to be developed there and that some tropical diseases are endemic were the 3 main reasons given by the Australian Universities Commission why Townsville should have a medical school, and I do not dispute the reasons. But surely those same reasons, with migrant, urban and industrial problems substituted for tropical diseases, exist in the Wollongong area, together with a far larger population, and this justifies the case for Wollongong. 
The failures of the medical profession today are largely human failures - substitution of drugs for proper consultation; over-use of operations; unwillingness and inability to become sufficiently interested in prevention, rehabilitation and chronic care: not sufficient interest in the great social issues of our times: and unwillingness to work with other people. There is also an unwillingness to practise in the areas of greatest need. To overcome these problems we need a new approach to medical education. This applies not only to medicine but also to nursing and other members of the health team. 
In the final minute remaining to me in this debate I would like to refer to some of the specific objections raised in the report that I and the Illawarra Region Health Committee disputed. The report said that at one stage obstetric services were not large, 40 per cent of deliveries occurring at Port Kembla. In fact there were 3,598 deliveries from July 1972 to June 1973 in the 2 hospitals, Wollongong and Port Kembla. Both of these obstetric units will be used as a complex for undergraduate training in obstetrics. With the expected rise in population of approximately 70,000 in the region by 1980, obstetric deliveries should rise significantly. 
Another finding of that Committee was: 
While there is a similar range of services for a non-teaching hospital, there is a general lack of related sophisticated specialist services. Considerable development would be needed to bring the hospital to teaching hospital standard. In general, hospital services are not yet developed to the extent necessary for an undergraduate clinical school. 
To my mind this is good reason for investing money there to make sure that it does come up to standard. That Committee said that consistent with evidence given by representatives of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, most modern thinking favours the community type of hospital. 
I shall not debate the fact that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  quoted from inaccurate newspaper articles but I should like to make 3 points on some matters he has mentioned. Firstly, the new defence cuts, so termed by the newspapers and others, are not new at all. I was well aware of them. They have been filtering through for some time. Secondly, expenditure was greater in the second half of 1972-73. Although the abolition of conscription did save funds at the time, the increased money spent on pay and conditions more than took this up. The third thing is that the 15-year strategic basis, the no-threat period, has been widely misinterpreted. All we are saying is that in this period increased emphasis on pay and conditions is logical, plus the fact of a need for reassessment of the weapons area. 
There are many important points one could develop in detail when reviewing the progress the Government has made in developing a coherent defence policy in little less than a year. Given .the regrettably short time for the estimates debate, it is impossible to do justice to more than a fraction of the Government's moves in this area. The need for, and the potential to develop, a logical defence policy has in the past been clouded by the unfortunate rhetoric of the scare campaigns run by the Opposition when it was in government. This threat-mongering, linked with the occasional purchase of a few items of flashy hardware, was allowed to pass as an excuse for defence planning. In contrast, in the time since the Government came to power we have witnessed the beginning of a period of basic investigation and planning of defence needs and capabilities which is without precedent in the peacetime history of this nation. 
I hope that we have seen the last of red threats and snap purchases of Fills, as a means to delude the public into thinking that an Australian Government was really concerned about the security of the nation. The cynicism with which these ploys were used in the past for crude electoral advantage is quite staggering, especially when it culminated in the tragic death of so many young Australians in Vietnam. In my opinion, one of the main things for which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  is to be congratulated are the steps he has taken to restore sanity to the discussion of defence matters in Australia and thus create a situation where fear and deception can never again be used to mislead the Australian people for the narrow interests of a conservative government. I think the honourable member referred to the need to have strategic base locations published. That would be absolute nonsense and would be irresponsible. Such a document should not be made public. This Government is 100 per cent ahead of the previous Government in making available defence information to the Opposition. 
This is, of course, an unspectacular thing and therefore an occurrence which is not recognised until it has been accomplished and has become part of history. Nevertheless, what the Minister for Defence has been able to achieve even in the last 10 months may be looked upon in future as a watershed, not just for defence policy and planning, but for Australian history in general. For the first time in many years we have a Government which recognises that the totality of this nation's security lies in the complete integration of its foreign policy, defence planning, international trade; indeed all aspects of our relations with the outside world, lt is in this totality of how we see the outside world and how the outside world sees us, that the true security of Australia must be planned. I hope we will never again see a spectacle such as that where some Minister's grave warning of the threat of Russian naval vessels in the Indian ocean whilst other Ministers of that very same government are engaged in trying to increase the volume of our trade with the same country. The same goes for China. 
The overseas visits made by the Prims Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  have shown that we can open genuine friendships with countries once caricatured as aggressive enemies, whilst at the same time maintaining our links with our traditional friends. This has done much to destroy the old hysterias and set the background in which a more sane and rational analysis of Australia's defence problems and requirements can take place. The calm and rational defence analyses instigated by the Minister for Defence and his explanation of these to the Australian public has done much to consolidate the awareness of these developments amongst the Australian people, although its long term importance has been overlooked. Of course, there are elements in the Australian community which react with uncertainty andfear to new ideas they do not understand. The old shibboleths die hard and some people will never see the way in which the new realities have left their preconceived ideas, formed a quarter of a century ago, far behind. However, I believe that the bulk of the Australian people are fast coming to see the difference between sane and logical argument, and hysterical outbursts. 
It is obvious that the present Minister for Defence has been able to do a great deal to foster this new awareness amongst the Australian people. In two major statements to this House and many other speeches around the country he has explained not only the strategic situation but has done much to show the Australian people the means by which the current situation and possible future developments are assessed so that our defences can be rationally planned. In this regard the speech the Minister gave to the RSL National Conference of the 29th October has a significance beyond what was said since, for the first time, the Australian people were taken into the Government's confidence on basic matters of defence planning. The hollow rhetoric which in the past has been delivered as an excuse for defence policy will never again be acceptable to Australian people, and future governments, of whatever colour, will have to explain far more fully the reasons which have led them to adopt defence policies. In future, only such carefully reasoned arguments will be acceptable to the Australian people who have, under this Government, witnessed for the first time what defence policy debate is really supposed to be like. 
It is simply because defence policy must now be, and be seen to be, based on logical arguments developed from accurate informa tion that the Government is pushing ahead with more basic studies of defence requirements than has ever been the case in the past. To give them their due, the importance of logical and accurate information was something which the Opposition was slowly coming to realise in the last few years of the previous Government. The Central Studies Establishment of Supply is only one example of the machinery which was starting to provide much of the hard information needed for sound decision making in defence. However, the process had not gone much further than analysing and comparing different types of equipment. For these types of studies to be truly effective a coherent overall defence policy framework is needed, if only to determine what type of equipment is relevant. 
To provide this necessary framework the Government commissioned a new paper on the strategic basis for defence policy making and has since initiated further work to refine thinking about the areas shown by this document to be crucial in the development of the nation's defences in the future. For the first time a detailed investigation of the requirements for the defence of the continent itself has been ordered so that the force structure needed for the defence of the nation can be determined, should it ever come to be required. From this the Government will be able to estimate what capability will be required at different levels of threat, should they ever eventuate, the types of equipment, force structures and so on, which are most relevant to our basic security needs. With this knowledge the Government can plan for the type of forces we should be developing now, to give us the capability to expand at the rate required, and to have available the military skills needed if this nation should ever be unfortunate enough to need them. On the basis of such firm guidelines, ad hoc equipment decisions, such as that for the Fill or the development of a DDL, should be a thing of the past. The new situation is that we have to support what we put in the field. 
As a further part of this effort to define the real defence priorities for national security, the Government has ordered other studies to find the most efficient locations around Australia for the various defence facilities required by the armed forces. This work will involve not only the assessment of purely military requirements but will also evaluate the need of units of the Services for industrial and technological support, ways to facilitate the closer joint operation of the Services, and the best possible access to amenities for servicemen and their families. Similarly, the Government has commissioned a study of the Citizen Military Forces as a basis for the development of policies which will allow this essential element of our armed forces again to play the significant role in national defence policy which it once did. 
Of course, these studies will take time to complete. Much detailed work has yet to be done to complete them and further time will be needed to assess the implications of their findings and combine them all into a coherent reality strengthening the development of the nation's security. This painstaking process is the inevitable consequence of the general paucity of the defence debates sponsored by past governments in this country. What is now significant is that for the first time an Australian Government is prepared to ask for, and listen to, cold, rational analysis of the defence needs of the nation. It is also significant that for the first time a Government is prepared to reveal these arguments to the public. What a stark contrast this is with the previous situation, where a degree of secrecy which was completely unnecessary totally shrouded defence debates in this country in a cloak of ignorance. I hope this situation has gone forever. 
Certainly one thing which will make a return to past habits difficult, even under the most reactionary of administrations, is the Government's decision announced in March this year, to endow 2 fellowships in the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University. The stimulation of public debate on defence policy in ways such as this will make it very hard for any future government to masquerade the emotionalism of fearmongering as sane defence analysis. Significantly, honourable members opposite should benefit from the Government's determination to pursue rational, logical analysis in defence policy-making. Unlike them when they were in power, this Government has no fears of giving the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  or his relevant spokesman access to defence planning documents if they have the wit to request them. One can understand the way these men used secrecy- 
In the few minutes available to me on the adjournment debate I want to speak on matters relating to economics and business. Prior to last Saturday's New South Wales election the Australian Country Party candidate for the seat of South Coast inserted in a local newspaper an advertisement which stated: 
Render your protest. The Labor Government in Canberra is crippling your district, your job, your future and your business. 
Significantly, as at 20 November 1973 he had received 1,371 votes out of 20,358 voters en rolled. But he was only repeating the statements of his leaders, and tonight I wish to take the opportunity to rebut some of those statements. I do not wish to raise again in any great detail th: debate on the revaluations and the tariff cuts that the Country Party opposed so much, but I would point out that in opposing tariff cuts the Country Party was cutting directly against the rural sector, as the cost of tariff subsidisation is borne largely by the exporting sector. 
The benefits of revaluation were stressed in the Treasury publication entitled "The Australian Economy' of August 1973. It stated: 
While a strong growth in exports adds to gross domestic product and therefore to the potential for a higher standard of living, this potential will not be realised if the receipts from export sales - which involve a transfer of Australian resources to the rest of the world - are not used to finance a higher level of imported supplies. In short, production for export is a means to an end rather than an end in itself. 
Continuing current account surpluses when reserves are already excessive are not only wasteful of resources that could be used to meet internal demands. By adding to domestic liquidity they can, in conjunction with capital inflow, pose considerable problems for ' economic management. 
That Australia had a high level of international reserves compared with other countries, even in 1970, is clearly illustrated by referring to a table which was prepared for me by the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service. It shows Australian international reserves as a proportion of annual imports. The annual average for the 5 years ending June 1969 was 46 per cent. It was 43 per cent for the year ending June 1970, 60 per cent for the year ending June 1971, 99 per cent for the year ending June 1972, and 114 per cent for the year ending June 1973. This sort of excess of reserves and the effect that it had has recently been enlarged on by  Dr Porter.  Reference to this matter was made in a debate in this House last week. But even in May 1973  Dr Porter  estimated that this excessiveness led to a total speculative inflow of $ 1,500m for the period from January 1971 to September 1972. This implies that about 43 per cent of net apparent capital inflow during this period was based on speculation and that the Australian dollar would have to be revalued. 
I return to the statement by the Country Party candidate in the seat of South Coast at last Saturday's New South Wales election. The fact is that the business and rural sectors are undergoing an almost unprecedented boom with record profit levels. Gloom mongering and fear have become the only tactic of Opposition parties, and their negative approach is somewhat summed up by their advocacy of a no' vote to both the prices and incomes referendums. Recently I asked the Parliamen tary Library to prepare a list of the profits of companies by sectors. 
Tonight I shall continue the speech which I was making last night. I was at the point of seeking permission to have incorporated in Hansard the table which I have in my hand. I ask for leave to have it incorporated. 
I always admire the way that members of the Austraiian Country Party loyally come into this House whenever their leader or  deputy  leader speaks in here. This is somewhat contrasted by the interests in wheat displayed by members of the Liberal Party of Australia because at present only 2 members of that Party are in the House. One is the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who takes a genuine interest in primary industry and the other is my friend  Mr Graham  who has one of the bigger wheat growing electorates of Sydney. The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  made great play on uncertainty - uncertainty in primary industry at present and uncertainty in business. This is a rather common theme. If I were still farming and growing beef, I would continue to grow beef at present. If I were in farming and growing sheep I would continue to grow sheep or wool at present. If I were in farming and growing wheat I would continue to grow wheat at present. 
It just does not seem to square with me that one can say we have reached a position of uncertainty because the wheat stabilisation plan is to be extended for only one year. Growers are in exactly the same position now as they were in at this time last year. That is about the worst that one can say. We all accept that the main reason all along for the wheat stabilisation plan has been to take out the bumps and hollows, the rises in prices, the drops in prices and the problems caused by seasons. We are all aware of these things. These sorts of problems caused the previous Government to introduce quotas into the wheat industry. This has been regretted by honourable members opposite, I think, and it is regretted by us and by the wheat growers. But this is the way that the wheat industry works sometimes. I do not think it is time now to debate the whys and wherefores or the ins and outs of wheat stabilisation itself so much as when the next plan is to be brought into the Parliament. 
The main Bill we are discussing today, the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill, centres mainly on an extension of the stabilisation scheme for one year. As such, the Opposition largely does not disagree with what is proposed. 
Already Press speculation has occurred on the next wheat industry plan. I think everyone knows that another wheat industry plan has been drawn up already and is at present being discussed. In due course it will be introduced. A lot can be said about wheat stabilisation. With the new plan a great deal of work has been done in the last year or so. I mention  Mr Callaghans  report and the fact that a great deal of work has been done in universities and various other places. 
The honourable member for Moore maintains that academics are a bit of a menace. 
I am sorry. It is a paradox for the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  to say that wheat sales when his Party was in government were a non-political event and to demonstrate now that there is a heck of a lot of politics mixed up in the matter which also has a potential for divisive attitudes in the country. 
I point out that even though this plan is an extension for one year only the government has embellished the wheat plan for this one year extension. I am always most happy when people on the other side of the House get stuck into the Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt,  because I take the long term view. I think that in 2 years or 3 years time much of these words, in black and white in the Hansard report, will be used against honourable members opposite by the farmers themselves. 
On 23 February of this year the Minister for Primary Industry announced the addition of 10c a bushel on first advance payments. This is the first time that the first advance payment has been changed in some IS years. At the same time, the Minister accepted the proposal by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation for a national delivery quota for 1973- 74 of 514.4 million bushels, plus 20 million bushels on a special pool basis at any stage when there was excess. On 24 May 1973 the Minister for Primary Industry announced that there would be a second payment for growers from the 1969-70 pool. These measures largely were designed to help stimulate more plantings. Even then the belief was that there would be a growing and better market for wheat. 
I think all honourable members are now distressed by the fact that, although there were good wheat plantings and those plantings were going well and the seasons were good, the outbreak of rust has caused some problems to the wheat industry. I was distressed to see only in the last few days, that the estimate for wheat production in New South Wales this year has been reduced from 155 million bushels to 130 million bushels which is a drop of 16 per cent. The Australian Government has committed $500,000 to the locust problem. The weevil affair, if I can describe it in that way, is still the subject of more discussion. But even in this area we are doing something positive as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, through its laboratories at Black Mountain In the Australian Capital Territory, is now investigating other ways of combating the weevil menace in terms of storage in situ. 
I am sure that the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  will speak about the long term wheat contracts. These are certainly the best measures that the Government can take for the industry to try to introduce greater certainty into this area of activity. Another long term wheat stabilisation plan will be introduced and together with long term wheat contracts, we can guarantee more certainty. I do not think that anyone would state categorically that the present world wheat prices will continue to hold. If we are looking at the politics of this matter, I think it can be said also that Canada attained better contracts than we did with China, for political reasons, especially the fact that we knocked at the door at a later time. 
There seem to be 2 versions of the problem with respect to the United Arab Republic. One version is that the Australian Wheat Board was not attempting to repudiate the contract with the UAR at all. But I think we can say that the move for cash payment was a repudiation in fact. Alternatively, we can adopt the other version in which people say that the Government was interfering. If the Government did interfere by providing a 75 per cent guarantee to maintain the viability of the contract, this is by far the highest amount in respect of which an Australian Government has ever guaranteed such a contract. That contract provides for the supply of 1.02 million tonnes of wheat each year for a 3-year period, the conditions of sale, including terms if any, and 'the price to be negotiated at the beginning of each year. Even if long term wheat markets can be guaranteed, there is no guarantee that they will be held. In 2 or 3 years time we could need the wheat contract with the United Arab Republic. I think that it is reasonable for the Government to move in this way. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party has foreshadowed an amendment to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill which will seek to deny to the Minister for Primary Industry the right to issue directives to the Australian Wheat Board. The honourable member will do this when the Bill reaches the Committee stage, later today I suppose. The amendment relates to section 13 (3) of the Act, which provides: 
The Minister may give directions to the Board concerning the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers and the Board shall comply with those directions. 

 Senator Wriedt used this section to direct the Board to bear 25 per cent of the recent credit sales to Egypt. The Governnent, as I said, is bearing the remaining 75 per cent. I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party will find it somewhat embarrassing to move that amendment, however, as the power of direction was first inserted in the Act in 1954 by his predecessor,  Sir John  McEwen. The Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  now says: 
I do not believe that the purpose - 
He is referring to section 13 (3) of the Act: was ever intended to be to allow the Minister to direct the Board as to how it should carry out its duties. This section was inserted in the Act to protect the industry - not to allow the Government to tell the industry, through the Board how to manage its affairs. 
These views, however, are not borne out by research. The section was inserted not to protect the industry but to protect the taxpayer. On 20 October 1954 the then Minister for Defence,  Sir Philip  McBride, introduced the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1954 info Parliament on behalf of the then  Mr John  McEwen. Explaining the new provision to give the Minister power of direction, he said: 
It is far from the Government's intention that this should open the way to Government interference in the wheat selling operations pf the Board, but it will be obvious to honourable members and it has in fact been clearly stated to the Wheatgrowers Federation that, as the Australian Government assumes the financial responsibility of guaranteeing the plan from public revenue, then, in the interests of the taxpayers generally, it cannot be indifferent, for instance, to the price at which the Board may be willing to sell wheat at some particular time or to some particular market. 
Thus,  Sir Philip  was saying that the taxpayer had to be protected and, if necessary, the Minister could interfere even on a matter of price. There was no demur from either side of the House. 
It is difficult to see, therefore, why  Senator Wriedt  was not entitled to issue the directive he did to the Board.  Mr Anthony  had his chance to put things right himself when he introduced the Wheat Stabilisation Act 1968 into the House of Representatives on 23 October of that year. But section 13 (3) remained unaltered. Neither in his second reading speech, nor at the committee stage, did the then Minister for Primary Industry make any reference to the section. There are many people not only in Government but in the industry who believe the Board acted irresponsibly in trying to wriggle out of the Egyptian deal. 
The Board welcomed the market with open arms when the China market went bad. Now it says that, unless the next sale is in cash or the Government picks up all the risk, there should be no sale. As I said earlier, the wheel must eventually turn again and the day may come when we go begging to Cairo to buy on terms. I repeat, incidentally, that the 75 per cent of the risk that the Australian Government will carry is the highest percentage that has ever been carried on any wheat deal. 
A great deal has been said about politics. I refer to April 1971 when  Dr Rex  Patterson, who was then Labor's shadow Minister for Primary Industry, directed a pointed question to the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  on political interference in the wheat trade with China. I do not think that I should outline all that went on at that time. The political nature of the wheat deals going on at that time was very well demonstrated by  Dr Patterson  at the time. Allegations were made about interference by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. These allegations were never properly denied or discussed in this Parliament. I think it was pretty well established in the minds of everyone that wheat sales have been a large part of politics in Australia. It is a little naive when talking about wheat to say that politics are not involved. I am not saying that this is a good thing, but I am saying that it is something that we all should be mature enough to be aware of. 
When the next wheat stabilisation plan is introduced into this House, I hope that we will have a chance to talk about the real deficiencies of other wheat stabilisation plans and that constructive criticism will be offered of the plan that will be brought forward in some attempt to give the industry more assurance of the long term stability which it has at present, I maintain, and which it wants in the future. 
In speaking on the Bill I would like to say how interested I was in the comments of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who went into a fair amount of research and detailed the way the rural reconstruction scheme had been working since its introduction in 1971. The Government accepts the continuing need to facilitate the adjustment process in rural industry, and in terms of debt adjustment it is much the same as ' providing means for adjustment overall to the rural industries. You can lead a horse to water but you cannot always make it drink. I think what we have to try to give the rural sector is an option of being able to adjust to change to different forms of industry or to different scales of the particular primary industry in which a farmer is engaged. 
My mind goes back to when I was studying at the University of New England and doing some economic history. At one stage I read a book that covered 2 centuries of rural innovation with respect to machinery in primary industry. This woke me up to the fact that adjustment in primary industry has always gone on, and there has always been the impact of technology, and of course there has always been the impact of the way the scale of farming enterprise changes over the periods. 
As the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  said in his second reading speech, this Bill is to secure parliamentary approval for a new agreement between the Australian and State governments. It is supplementary, of course, to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act. As honourable members are aware, with the tremendous demand placed on funds available, 'the allocation for 4 years was used up in 2 years - that is, by the end of June 1973. That was $100m plus the $15m additional allocation. I entered this Parliament at a time when the New South Wales Minister for Lands, whose electorate is entirely enclosed within Macarthur, was seeking to embarrass the new Government. I figure that he gave vent to his pent up frustration with the previous Government for some reasons, and this was a great opportunity to kick us in the head. But there was a hiatus for a while and the New South Wales Rural Reconstruction Board was embarrassed. 
I will not refer too much to the New South Wales Minister for Lands. I just did not think his negotiating ability was particularly good. But I would say that the reason for the hiatus was that New South Wales, in common with the other States, had undertaken at the April 1972 review meeting to try to deal with applications for rural reconstruction assistance at such a rate that approvals and expenditure would have been spread as uniformly as possible throughout the year, within the limited total funds available. Unfortunately New South Wales did not stick to this and subsequently decided to decline all applications for debt reconstruction assistance and agreed to allocate all available funds to farm build up assistance. That was reasonable enough. This step was taken to permit the State to honour another undertaking that it, in common with the other States, would encourage farm build up applications and would approve all eligible cases for that form of assistance. The fact that its rate of approvals was such that available funds were allocated well before the end of the 1972-73 financial year was brought to the attention of the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales and the New South Wales Minister for Lands on several occasions after September 1972 by the previous Government. The Minister in February of this year suggested to the Board that a more cautious approval policy might be adopted. 
It is worth mentioning that the average amount of assistance granted for debt reconstruction in New South Wales had been some $10,000 higher than the average in other States. I would like to make some comment on that in a moment. The second major review of the rural reconstruction scheme which was under way under the previous Government took place in March 1973. It was agreed that this should be continued by all States and by the Federal Government, but by this time things had generally got better in the rural area. By March 1973 there had been 33 monthly applications for debt reconstruction assistance compared with 450 at the peak about 18 months earlier and about 116 applications for build-up assistance, compared with over 200 at the peak. It is not necessarily the level of rural debt at any time which indicates the problems that rural industry is facing. My own experience in fanning was that you are often better off when you are well and truly in debt. Until you can get into debt by way of an overdraft or loans you quite often cannot effectively work your property. So I would not say that because rural debt is at a high level farming is necessarily unprofitable. What does count is the capacity to pay the debt off. The Minister's second reading speech set out the way in which the 1973-74 basic allocation of $36m is to be disbursed. 
I would like to make a few comments on the rural reconstruction scheme overall in Australia. Each State has a very different approach. The criticism of New South Wales in allocating over $10,000 on average to applicants is not valid in my opinion because New South Wales takes a very different approach from that of the other States. It has good justification for doing this. The New South Wales Rural Reconstruction Board is probably the most experienced. It was set up basically in the 1930s and has been an on-going thing since then in some form or another assisted by the Rural Bank of New South Wales. It set up rather sophisticated budget procedures for the farmers who are eventually granted rural assistance. It did have some problems with staff at one time, particularly at the beginning of this year, but by and large the way it determines which farms are eligible for rural assistance is based on a rather sophisticated means. Victoria has had some sort of scheme going since about 1962, but the other States set up their schemes of assistance in 1971, consequent upon the Commonwealth legislation. 
But as I said, the States had very different methods of assessment, and the major problem in assessing viability still remains. What is a normal year? What historical data are relevant? Are taxation records relevant? If there is conflict of evidence, just where do you go? Do you go to the banks? Do you go to the pastoral companies? Just what sort of records do farmers keep in any case? Most of the time the records they keep are either inadequate or certainly not uniform. The problem of future capital expenditure being incorporated into the various budgets set out for the farmers to pay their restructured debt also causes problems. Eventually what the various States come up with amounts to a budget for the farmer who is being assisted, and it is a budget over IS or 20 years, but is on a very different criteria. I maintain that there is need for a conference on ways and means of arriving at a conclusion so the information gained since the start of the scheme can be collated in some way and so that the States can see where deficiencies lie in their own scheme and where advantages can be gained from perhaps following the way other States approach the scheme. 
I am very lucky. The main problem that the farmers in my electorate have is that the land is now too valuable to farm. So far to my knowledge there has been only one application in my electorate for rural assistance, but I have had quite a few cases referred to me from people, particulary people in some of the other electorates in New South Wales, before I got into Parliament. I have one minor criticism of the way the scheme has been working in New South Wales inasmuch as the expertise, the enthusiasm, the ability or the experience of the various branches of the Rural Bank in the first instance seems to vary greatly, I know that on one occasion the Bank took 8 weeks just to process an application in the very simplest basic initial steps. Some of the form filling when there is a delay at the local bank might become excessive. In another case forms had to be filled out identically 3 times over a period of some 8 months. 
Related to this general problem of assessment and varying enthusiasm by branches and the way officers process applications for assistance, I would like to make a few other general observations on the whole scheme. What has struck me can be illustrated by way of drawing a parallel with decentralisation in some country areas. If assistance is given to a new engineering firm setting up in a country town this immediately has the effect of cutting the throat of the local home grown engineering works, which is disadvantaged because the newcomer gets some special assistance. By way of parallel, I have known cases in which farmers on the margin, not eligible for rural reconstruction assistance, have been placed at a disadvantage with respect to those who have just become eligible for it. This causes some problems locally in the area concerned. There are other farms that have received assistance the assets of which have been so large, and which have just run into a genuine liquidity problem, that an unreal advantage has been given when their debt has been reconstructed. Some farmers are as game as Ned Kelly. Others take on money at up to 14 per cent - in one case of which I know - and they have subsequently gained assistance and this has put them well ahead of their neighbours. 
There has always been the problem of marginal areas. I believe that, at one stage, a lot of applications in New South Wales came from around Condobolin in the electorate of the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  which could be generally regarded as a marginal wheat growing area. It causes problems when almost identical farms are treated differently. I think it was largely these factors that caused more emphasis on farm build up which, in my opinion, is probably going to help more. But here again there is another problem: You have the situation in which the big farms tend to get bigger. This gives an opportunity for some people to buy up the place next door which is not doing too well. The problem here is that the ability of the farmer himself is not recognised. If we do not wish to confuse rural reconstruction with rural credit but simply look at this situation with a view to restructuring and adjusting industry and providing the option to move into other occupations or other areas of primary industry, the long term rural credit where the Government or other powers that be have more control in the context of as fully viable a rural sector as possible is more of an answer. 
I was interested to see today in the October 1973 Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics which is put out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics a report on a study which indicated that as far as rural credit was concerned liquidity is of far more importance than' interest rates. I think this is an area that should be developed a lot more by government. There are also the other areas involving the need to secure longer term markets, stabilisation of industries and, of course, marketing information. It is too hard to predict markets into the future but I think there is a great need for marketing information. 
As the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  has just said, these Bills refer to the metric changeover. I am happy to see that under the conversion there is a slight decrease in the charges to be levied on eggs. 1 understand that there is no intention to change the dimensions of the egg delivery devices but I am sure that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the hatchery men will be able to take this in their stride if it comes about. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. I grew up on an egg farm. Before I came into this House from about 1928 I spent my life on a poultry farm or an egg farm. I would like to make a few general comments on the egg industry. 
The egg industry is rather a Cinderella industry in common with many other horticulture industries and as such it really is not of great political significance compared with industries such as wheat or wool. In hard political terms it virtually has no votes. It does not seem to have much lobbying power and therefore it has often been very much ignored. Part of my political training came about as a result of my membership of 2 egg industry organisations at one stage and eventually in one industry organisation where I ended up on the executive; that was the Australian Poultry Farmers Association. The industry has very difficult politics internally as there are rather large migrant groups within it. In the area in which I was living was a large group of Estonians and not very far away was a large group of Maltese. They seem to start from very basic different political premises in respect of the way we should attack problems. I was accused of being a communist by one group in 1958 because I was in favour of licensing. I was accused of being a communist in 1965 because by that time I was against licensing. All the words that are bandied around in politics were pretty well bandied around in the egg industry. Often greed and ignorance of farmers and a lust for power in their organisations caused all the complexities which exist in any sort of political set-up. 
In regard to the Australian industry overall the States have more or less agreed that there is to be licensing. In some ways, I think this will solve many of the problems but I am a little bit saddened because all the people I knew in the industry, all the dominants, the people who fought for years and years and who took all the abuse have just about gone. The industry is centred roughtly around the cities, around some of the major towns and in some of the outlying country areas where advantage can be taken of cheaper feed. 
I ask the Minister for Supply a question concerning the Nomad aircraft project. Will the Minister inform the House on the likelihood of sales and future construction of Nomad aircraft in Australia? What overseas interest is currently being expressed in the aircraft? What are the possibilities of sales or licensed construction in overseas countries? 
 I ask the Minister for Education: What is the situation with respect to the $3. 67m allocated in the Budget for pre-school education for New South Wales? Is there any truth in the statement that kindergartens will have to close and that properties will have to be sold because of delays by the Australian Government? What likelihood is there of the money being spent in New South Wales by June this year? What progress is being made by other States in the expenditure of the $10m allocated for pre-school education? 
Until this debate came on I thought there was a little heat in the foreign affairs issue in Australia. But the debate today has been so waffly and there have been so many adjectives used that I feel convinced that anyone listening to the debate would feel that they were hearing a few old stories over again and that nothing very constructive had been put forward and that, indeed, the heat had gone right out of the foreign affairs debate in this country. We have heard quotes used and we can use counter-quotes. The only test of foreign affairs is the test of time. The Government knows darned well that the test of time in the 1950s and the 1960s showed just how erroneous were the policies of the past Government. However, we are not talking about the past; we are talking about the future. So, we are all here waffling on today on what we seem to think will happen. The Opposition does not seem to be agreed upon whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has done too much in South East Asia or not enough. Members opposite say that he went there last, and they gave some quotations. The first place that the Prime Minister visited as Minister for Foreign Affairs was South East Asia and now he has followed it up with a trip to South East Asia as Prime Minister. 1 think that the confusion that abounds is mainly due to the fact that the debate is based on the documents the Prime Minister has tabled and one simply cannot argue about what is in those documents. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  finished up talking about the energy crisis and quite a few other matters that are of great significance in foreign affairs but on which subject a lot of legitimate debate could take place. What we are really talking about today is the tour through South East Asia of the Prime Minister in February. I think it must be of some embarrassment to the Opposition that this debate on foreign affairs should take place on the Prime Minister's visit when it is this trip that is the main reason for the debate. The documentation of the trip shows, for all members to see, just what a success the visit was. I refer honourable members to what the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has said in the recent past about foreign affairs and South East Asia. I think he is the official Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs. 1 refer to his comments on the television program 'Monday Conference' of Monday, 1 October. He said that he was a bit sorry for what he had said previously about Vietnam when he first came into Parliament. He admitted that the previous Government did not press for a role in the diplomatic search for peace in Vietnam. He agreed with all that this Government was doing, but not the way in which we were doing it. 
This is straight out of the text of the interview on 'Monday Conference'. 
The nub of what the honourable member for Kooyong was saying on the program - I think that anyone who saw the program would agree  with me - was that he roughly agreed with what we were doing but particularly disagreed with the way we were doing it. What the honourable member for Kooyong said was that perhaps we did not do these things in the most diplomatic way. Perhaps he did not like our accent or the colour of our ties or something like that. He also said that the Liberals would recognise China and he mentioned a few other matters. But I think this is about the only element of heat that is now left in the foreign affairs debate in this country, as the honourable member for Kooyong 'himself has admitted. Members of the Opposition, largely do not disagree with what we are doing but simply with the way we are doing it. 
The Government's approach to foreign affairs has been positive and consistent since the first days of assuming office. The Australian electorate is no longer required by the Government to view the world in terms of goodies and baddies, in terms engineered to accord with a Government's own distorted policy, in terms of seeking maximum political advantage and in terms of fear and apprehension. Rather, the Australian Government now seeks to present its policy in terms of the world as it is, in terms of an independent outlook, no longer the shadow image of a stronger power. I think we can elaborate on this independence when we look at our behaviour in the United Nations Organisation, which is a body in which the Australian Government passionately believes, where recently I believe the World Association of World Federalists put Australia, New Zealand and Cyprus highest on the scale they had set up in terms of the 20 most important issues discussed before the United Nations in 1973. The Australian Government is bent on presenting foreign affairs in terms of realistic criteria in trying to make evaluations of our dealings with other nations in the international community. We recognise China and Chile on more or less the same grounds and criteria that the government is in effective control of the nation. We are also presenting our policy in terms of initiating ideas and approaches and in terms of a more intelligent willingness to involve ourselves in a dignified way with our neighbours. 
I am not disputing the fact that the previous Government did establish a lot of strong links in this area. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  said, this fact is not in dispute. However, a myth which grew up with the past Government was that one could not talk directly and bluntly with other governments in case one offended them. I simply do not believe this. The Prime Minister has shown that we can talk directly and bluntly and that such an approach is respected. Governments of the countries in South East Asia have responded in kind and rather than a lot of pleasantries being exchanged we have, as a result of the visit we are discussing, made great progress. The Prime Minister's 4 aims were achieved with resounding success. The documents have been tabled. 
I think that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  took a little more of the steam out of this debate when he recorded in his speech during the Address-in-Reply debate the criticisms of Australia's foreign policy by Opposition spokesmen over the last year and the statements by leaders of our neighbouring governments since that time. Those statements were a pretty fair catalogue of just what the nations in that area to which the Opposition was referring, and which we were supposed to have offended and criticised and put offside, think of Australia. I just do not think that the statements made by the governments of other countries are facts that the Opposition can squirm away from. The honourable member for Phillip mentioned Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. We have already established a special relationship with Indonesia. 
The Opposition continually regards with some glee the fact that the Government's proposal for a broad forum of Asian-Pacific nations has not been instantly accepted - something for the 'never-never', as the Leader of the Opposition is reported as saying in the 'Age' of 2 February 1974. The Opposition has not at any time attempted to assess the value of the proposal itself or the merits of the idea. All it is happy to do is reflect the early misgivings of others. Yet in less than a year since the idea was floated we now see signs of acceptance and discussion is being conducted because the idea is a good one and because the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  believe in its value and are not intimidated by negative arguments. For the Leader of the Opposition to argue that Australia has lost its reputation for reliability and working in harmony with its long-standing friends in South East Asia is garbage and has been conclusively shown to be so by the speeches I referred to earlier. The tour of the Leader of the. Opposition through South East Asia was scantily reported and was a mission set on trying not to establish relationships or to get any ideas but to find ammunition for the domestic party political fray; in other words, back to the past but dress it up differently. 
The Prime Minister actually tries to play down what can be achieved by overseas visits. Foreign affairs is a long term business in gaining understanding. However, by and large in the newspapers throughout Australia - I will not select my favourite quotes - the consensus and the balance of opinion was that the Prime Minister's visit had received overwhelming acceptance. Newspaper comment at the time of the visit that we are discussing was explicit in pointing out that the latest visit was one in which rabbits were pulled out of the hat and a lot was achieved.  Mr Lee,  supposedly a statesman who had doubts about Australia's policies and a man who we all know enjoys a good debate, was quite definite in describing the Government's policies in glowing terms. 
The Opposition says it wants to revive the debate on foreign affairs and defence - harking back to the past again, 1 am sure. I suppose they will kick the communist can and confront us with the yellow hordes once more. The Opposition says that differences remain and honourable members opposite have isolated some of the areas where they believe they do. They have referred to the interpretation of the ANZUS Treaty. We are quite explicit on this matter. There does not seem to be much room for debate on this. We say it is crucial. What about the maintenance of the United States presence in South East Asia? Do honourable members opposite want the United States fighting on Asian soil again? Do they not read the Guam doctrine? I can. see that there is some sense in the United States naval presence and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics versus China conflict, or whatever it is, and the fact that the United States in many circumstances in the future can possibly be regarded as a proxy ally of China. I think there is a lot to be said for this point of view. The United States is aware of the changing patterns of power and strategies without Australian political parties thinking they can make this an internal political issue. One argument on the withdrawal of troops from Singapore is that of morale, that the Army likes being there. But I do not think that there is any military reason for the Army being in Singapore, particularly when we envisage a lot more emphasis on joint training programs in this area. There are economic reasons for having troops in Singapore. This is sure enough. But surely there are a lot more positive ways of giving economic aid to Singapore. 
All I can say about Indonesia is that I believe, and think that most thinking people believe, that relations have never been better. We do not regard the South East Asian countries as buffer states any more, but as countries having virtually the same sort of defence problems as we do and a need for some sort of common defence interest. They are not buffer slates. We do not simply need the United States to be interested in the area so that it gives us protection if there are conflicts in the region. I think to get away from this buffer state mentality towards these nations to our north and to accept that they are independent nations with a common defence interest is making a lot of progress. 
The Opposition tried to make something of the Prime Minister's statements on United States bombers still flying out of Thailand. The Prime Minister has never made any secret of his attitude on bombing. He was asked a direct question in Bangkok on 1 February. We have only to go back to his speech on 28 February 1967 in which he first stated quite plainly the Party's attitude to bombing. Incidentally, in that speech he quoted the United States Secretary of Defence at the time,  Mr McNamara,  who said: 
I do not believe that the bombing up to the present has significantly reduced, nor any bombing that I could contemplate in the future would significantly reduce, the actual flow of men and materials to the south. 
The statements made by the Prime Minister and the statements made by other members of the. Government have been consistent all along. So by and large I just do not see that there is a lot of heat, in the debate on foreign affairs. I emphasise again that. I think that the Prime Minister's visit to South East Asia proved just how good our relations are. One feature of the Australian Government's policy has been in respect to aid to the economic projects of the Association of South East Asian Nations - ASEAN. We are seeking to do more in this area. Another feature of the Prime Minister's visit was the announcement of trade deals, negotiations and discussions being entered into. The programs were put forward to fit in with the development programs in existence in the countries themselves. Hopefully, more emphasis will be put on these sorts of programs. In Thailand the Prime Minister,  Mr Sanya,  welcomed Australian policy on investment and the preferential tariff scheme for developing countries. Official talks were held to speed up the conclusion of a trade agreement. The Prime Minister announced a new aid program including the provision of ambulances and radio transceivers. Lengthy discussions on trade and investment were held in Malaysia. 
The Prime Minister was the first Australian Prime Minister to visit Burma, and again preliminary moves were made to facilitate trade. Burma will be importing 154,000 tons of Australian coal and Australia is making arrangements so that the Burmese Government will be provided with information on how to exploit the Australian market. Discussions on quotas and tariffs were held in Singapore. No one doubts the difficulties in these areas, but the nations visited by the Prime Minister were convinced that our intentions are honourable and that a more vigorous attempt is being made to enhance trade to the benefit of both Australia and the nations concerned and to overcome some of the imbalances that have been present for so long. I think that all Parties in this House are agreed on the need for more aid abroad and the need for more emphasis on trade rather than on aid purely and simply. The test of this will be time and the way in which other nations, and particularly the way in which Australia, react to the policies. But 1 think, as I said earlier, this debate has proved that much of the heat has been taken out of the foreign affairs debate. The Prime Minister's tour through South East Asia was an unqualified success. 
Some of the old hands around this place have told me that Address-in-Reply debates are a bit of a waste of time, but I think all honourable members, on the back benches in particular, of both sides of the House regard the Address-in-Reply debate as being an opportunity to speak on matters on which they do not normally get a chance to speak. The fact that this is the second Address-in-Reply debate we have had in the 28th Parliament has, I think, given honourable members a chance to do quite a few things, but basically it has given honourable members a chance to review a lot of what the Government set out to do on the first occasion. The Speech by  Her  Majesty the Queen of Australia on 28 February set out in precis form what I believe to be a continuation of the policies that were initiated by the Government in its first year of office, the new policies to be initiated in this and the next session and also an assurance that the ideals, hopes and aspirations of the Australian people will be effectively answered by the Government. Few governments in Western democracies have been elected to office after having been in opposition for so long. No government has gained office with such a full catalogue of policies awaiting implementation. That is due not only to the length of time the present Government was out of office but also, and more so, to the lethargy and failure of the previous Government to intitiate policies or even administer in any innovative way. 
I can see little sense, as a politician, in lamenting the actions of past governments as, by and large, it has come through to me that the electorate has a very short memory and that it has forgotten the crisis ridden periods of 1969, 1970, 1971 and 1972. The old English axiom that it takes one' year of a reforming government to undo 3 years of conservatism still holds in my opinion. But the Government simply does not have the time or the temperament to be concerned about its inheritence;. it is committed to action. The Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen made that clear. There seem to be 2 theories in force in the Opposition at the present time. I reject both of them. I reject the theory that is being rather happily embraced by some honourable members opposite that we are doing too much too soon. That is a nice security blanket for them; the theory is that all they have to do is wait for the Government to finish tearing around and implementing a lot of policies and then come back in. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  brought up a new one. He said that the Government is running out of steam, that it was only a bit of wind to disguise the fact that the coal in the fire has gone out. I reject that, too, because it was clearly stated in the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen that there is going to be a continuation of the policies. A lot of these policies are long term ones. 
Of the many programs put forward in the time leading up to the election in 1972 to my mind 2 stood above all others. These were education and urban affairs. The Government has largely won the main education battle with the forces of conservatism. Fortunately no power will ever be able to stop the forces that are now in train in education. Policies on cities, towns and decentralisation - those matters which are now the concern of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  - are matters that are well in hand, but a lot longer gestation period is required for these sorts of policies. 
It will take some years before the Australian public will fully apprehend the benefits and the magnitude of what the Government has done. The Department of Urban and Regional Development took quite a time to get established. It has really been functioning only since June of last year. It is a rather fascinating experience to see the development of this Department; to see the quality and the calibre of the people whom the Department is recruiting and to see a lot of people with a lot of ideas come into the Department and face the practical problem of implementing the policy. By and large, as I will demonstrate later, those people are getting on with the job. But I still think that it is very interesting to look at how this Department is functioning at the present time. 
What I would like to point out today is the way in which the focus and the mix of urban policies already are affecting a large portion of my electorate, and how appropriate this mix is. This is a good time - after the Government's one year in office - to test the applicability of these policies. But before doing this I should like to mention in passing the reasons why I fail to agree with the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Part of his rather rambling speech alluded to the problem of inflation By golly, I reckon that he is right, because we do have inflation running at an exceptionally high rate. But the answers that the honourable gentleman proposes and the promises and statements that he is now making add to and do not subtract from the problem itself. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that our policies have had no effect on inflation, but if the compromise coalition that he seeks to lead to government again had still been in office it would not have been able to get away with 2 revaluations, the tariff cuts or the capital inflow restrictions. It would not have been able to get these matters into the Parliament. What would the rate of inflation have been without these three rather dramatic measures? In a way the Leader of the Opposition must thank his lucky stars that he "was in Opposition at that time. He refers to the projected deficit and bemoans its extent, but then in the next breath he says that taxes should but cut by $600m and that defence spending should be lifted. The Opposition is very diffident about saying what the level of expenditure should be. I can understand, quite sensibly, that nobody should pin himself to a percentage of the gross national product, but the Opposition has put very few dimensions on the increase in defence spending that it would like to see take place. The only thing I can find is that perhaps the Opposition would have opted for an expenditure of 3.3 per cent of the gross national product this year. THat would have increased spending by at least $200m. 
The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  is very cautious in all these areas, but he said that the previous Government was committed to the DDL destroyer program. But I believe that in this area at least the previous Government would have wrecked the future rolling programs; it would have limited too many other options for the Navy. But this is the problem that we face. The Opposition is generally cagey on defence. It thinks that we are better defended if we have more. It promises more - and 'I agree that there should be more - but what of the spending? If the Opposition were to cut taxes by $600m and spend 5200m or $300m more on defence, that would add another $900m to the deficit. The other measures that would not have got through the Parliament - and I include some of those related to the rural sector - would possibly have added another $200m. If we add all these things together we find that we would have had really massive inflation. 
What would the Opposition have done in the same circumstances where rural incomes had almost trebled? A sudden increase in rural incomes has an inflationary effect, and we are not denying this. Would the Opposition have imposed  Sir Arthur  Fadden's supertax on the wool industry, as happened in the early 1950's? Where would the money have come from to implement many of the policies that the Opposition is now promising? At the present time I am engaged in the process of trying to cost some of the Opposition's promises. I suppose that we would have got back to a 50c a week increase in pensions, to per capita grants in education when the system was collapsing and to no increase in funds for Aboriginal affairs or in health or other areas. Perhaps the Opposition would have envisaged an unemployment rate of 2 per cent or 3 per cent. Perhaps it would like to have seen unlimited capital inflow. Perhaps the Opposition thinks that we would have been able to have our cake and to eat it, too. But I do not think that this can happen unless the Opposition specifies the areas in which it will cut government spending and the areas in which it will increase government spending. I think that all of this adds up to the fact that today we would have been  facing  an inflation rate of approximately 30 per cent. 
The Opposition says that it wants more money for housing - don't we all? But the latest figures show that private dwellings under construction are up by 32 per cent. The Opposition would like to see a cut in interest rates. The Government is very well aware of the impact that interest rates are having on people trying to get housing. Many of the areas that we represent are urban areas where people are being hit the hardest. I think that what the Opposition is really saying is that its priorities are different, and that is fair enough, but let us not have any humbug that if the Opposition had been in government it would have coped with the problem any better. I think that the Opposition in government would have faced more compromises than we have faced up to the present time. 
The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the fact that people on fourth floors of buildings in Canberra cannot decide the policy for all Australia. I point out to him that he is on the first floor of a building in Canberra. I think that there are a lot of other areas in which the Opposition can thank its lucky stars that it is not in government. In many areas we have achieved more in one year than the persent Opposition achieved in 23 years. As an example of this I refer to the defence reorganisation. This was an exceptionally difficult achievement; it was something that the Opposition could not have achieved. I will now leave that matter. 
In the time remaining to me I would like to devote my remarks to just what has happened in Campbelltown, Camden and Appin, which are named in the South West Sector in my electorate, and to what the Government is about in its priorities and planning. I concede that some ad hoc decisions have been made in the last year, but the overwhelming emphasis of the Government's policy and administration has been placed on establishing consistent long term trends in those areas where we have implemented policies. Campbelltown, Camden and Appin - these tri-cities in the South West Sector in my electorate - will have a population of approximately 500,000 people by the end of the century. The population of the Campbelltown municipality at the present time is about 42,000 and it is increasing at an exceptionally rapid rate. There are regular sub-divisions for 250 houses. There is one sub-division of 1,400 houses, and another sub-division of 600 houses under way at the present time. Since I came into this Parliament the number of electors in my electorate has increased from 63,000 to 78,000 or 79,000. 
I think that I can point to what has happened over the last few years in order to emphasise the story of co-operation that has been possible between 3 tiers of government and to show what can be done. I am not suggesting that there are no tensions between the levels of government, and I am not suggesting that we have been right on everything. But I am concerned that  Sir Charles  Cutler believes that Campbelltown is a Liberal Party trick. I am a little concerned that  Sir John  Fuller, the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment, does not believe in planning and does not mention the environment. I get concerned when people seem to think that Campbelltown has nothing to do with decentralisation and leave it at that. I think that the Government, quite happily, concedes that Campbelltown is not decentralisation, but it is a rationalisation of Sydney in terms of being part of a program which is designed to assist people living in areas where they are going to live in any case. If we are talking about decentralisation we are talking about AlburyWodonga, Bathurst-Orange and other areas - something that the previous Government did nothing about. 
The State Planning Authority project planning team completed the broad outline plan for the South West Sector of my electorate by December 1972. But the Authority, at the behest of the Australian Government, did not release the plans because it wanted to see what the Australian Government was going to do about the Holsworthy-Menai area. "The Authority's plans were put on public display in October of last year. At that time the Campbelltown City Council expanded its planning division and already it had a rather competent group of people. The Council has reached agreement with the State Planning Authority. The Council itself carried out all the interim development control planning for the Campbelltown area - for the whole of the city which will have a population of 200,000 to 250,000 people. The target date for the completion of this interim development control plan is September of this year. Plans will be released for public exhibition and, allowing time for objections and for gazettal, the total plan will be in. by the end of the year. I think that this has be?n an exceptional example of what local government can do if it is given the go-ahead. Campbelltown City Council is an exceptionally able council. But too many people, I think, at the Australian Government level, do not realise just how much local government can do. They have been a little worried about some of the academic problems, such as how will 40,000 people here plan for 250,000 people coming over the hill. Campbelltown City Council has shown that it can be done. 
There are quite a few problems still with respect to land in the area. The New South Wales Government introduced measures that fixed the price of land in areas which it nominated at October 1972 values. When resumption is effected the land will be acquired at those values plus an allowance for inflation and improvement in value to some extent. Some people are debating whether this can still be made to work. The legislation has still to be put through the State Parliament. It will be introduced this session. Some of the land in the areas nominated has been sold three or four times and no one knows how it will be bought back. I think that is one problem, but the overwhelming majority of the land in the areas that have been nominated is still available at $2,000 to $2,500 an acre. So, the simple step of the State Governments nominating a patch of land and saying that it will be acquired at a set value at a certain time has had the effect of keeping land values down. Land values in the immediate area which has not been nominated run at between $10,000 to $20,000 an acre. I think this shows what can be done if the State Government is willing to go along and co-operate. 
There has been a lot of talk about more community use of school facilities. Here again I think we can say that the Campbelltown City Council, in conjunction with the 2 levels of government, has effected some mighty plans indeed. The Macquarie Fields High School, which forms a central part of a shop development, a business development, a commercial development, a public service development and things such as fire stations and police stations, will be fully involved with community matters. The high school's library will be used. The high school's playing areas will be used. The high school is almost part of a central spine of that shopping centre itself. Similarly Minto High School is being built up in the same way and even better plans are envisaged. An interesting thing about one of the schools at Minto is that the Council is actually coming in to provide heated pools for handicapped children attending the Minto school. 
Plans for a technical college are well under way. Plans for a teachers college are well under way. A college of advanced education has yet to be approved. A university is well under way in terms of planning. The Australian Government intends building an office block there within the next two or three years. Industry is starting to move to the area. Health centres are starting to come. All these things reflect that the 3 tiers of government have been working intensively in the period about which I am talking. Changes are starting to occur. 
I am not saying that there are no problems. There are still massive problems concerning transport and telephones. The price of telephones in the town and the inadequacy of the service are matters to which the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is giving special attention. Much of the backlog in telephone installations has been directly caused because there was not enough planning in the past. Industrial subdivisions have gone on in some areas and it has been found that there are no cables and none available. There are still some telephones to be connected where the cost is about $10,000 for each installation. By and large, in terms of planning for telephones in the area, the problems are starting to be overcome. The major problem is being on the margin of the metopolitan area and having to pay country rates for calls to Sydney. My own office has had delays of three or four hours in reaching Sydney which is only 35 miles away. 
Transport is still exceptionally difficult. The New South Wales Government has built a magnificent road that goes as far as The Crossroads, but more roads will not really solve the problem of this area. Emphasis has to be put on public transport and emphasis has to be placed more and more on the railways. I have painted a picture where things are working. Problems still exist in getting some financial programs moving. I am still concerned that money allocated in the Budget on land acquisition will not be spent in time. I am concerned that there is still a lot of negotiations and discussions going on about the money allocated in the Budget for sewerage. I am particularly concerned that in relation to the money allocated for urban transport a lot of mucking around is still going on. 
These concerns also come over to me in some of my general criticisms of Budget spending or administration. There seems to me to be a problem when the Australian Government is prepared to turn massive sums of money on and off, that it is always easier to turn them off than on. This factor can be seen in some of our policies, where we have seen that we can cut expenditure and we have attempted to expend some money in certain areas and we have not been able to achieve our aims immediately. By and large I am optimistic. I think the lesson that has been learned in Campbelltown is showing that the 3 levels of government can work together. I think the lesson that is being learned there is that thought, will and the intelligence of our people will be able to cope with the problems of urban living. I think that what is happening in Campbelltown is a justification for a very large area of Australian Government's policies. 
I will not reply to all the points made by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  but I would just state that I think it is rational for industries to pay for their own promotion, given that we have a free enterprise mixed economy. I think that if the Government finds that it has to promote one industry it therefore follows that there is no sound reason why it should not promote all industries. I do not think that would be a tenable position. 
When I spoke on a Bill to amend the Wool Industry Act in 1973 I mentioned that I was of the opinion that more than the 3-year forward programming of wool research was desirable, and I mentioned then 5 years. I am still of that opinion. I also spoke of the lack of detailed analysis of the effectiveness of wool promotion. Since then we have received a report from the International Wool Secretariat. Although I am unhappy with the lack of figures and facts in the report, it is some justification for the promotion activities the IWS undertakes. The reason why the report is not rigorous in its arguments and discussion of its achievements - it is rather descriptive - is that promotion is so often in the non-quantifiable area. This aspect of marketing is of prime significance and I will be devoting time later to this aspect, this subjectiveness. 
Officers who have left the International Wool Secretariat informed me that not enough attention is paid to the findings of the men on the ground by London, the headquarters of the IWS. It seems that the International Wool Secretariat calls for more facts and figures from its employees and then tends to justify its own promotion activities without itself using facts and figures. As I said, perhaps we are in a subjective area and there is not much we can do about it. There seem to be many contradictions in the. whole area of wool promotion. One writer,  Mr A.  S. Watson of the Melbourne University - be was working with the IWS for 3 years - claimed that the promotion policies of the International Wool Secretariat have probably made wool prices more unstable because the IWS has concentrated on making wool appear to be different from and superior to synthetics in a limited section of the market. It is this that has made it more subject to fashion swings. It seems to me that the IWS often in its statements has expressed the thought that high wool prices were a bad thing. In fairness, emphasis on promotion of blends is getting away from this factor. I still believe that a lot more scrutiny has to be applied to wool promotion overseas by Australia. 
Another point I made when I spoke on an amendment to this Act previously was that promotion and research should be separated. The Minister for Northern Development and 
Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  spelled out the Government's approach, which emphasises my belief that greater grower contributions will mean more scrutiny on behalf of those paying. As the Government will now contribute only 25 per cent of promotion expenditure, expenditure on research will go up. This is to be welcomed. 
Part of the moneys allocated by this Bill relates to the marketing costs of the Australian Wool Corporation. I would like to spend most of my time on the future activities of the Corporation. As honourable members are aware, the Corporation has recently produced a report on the marketing of Australian wool. The matter has been quietly discussed over the past 2 months. In depth public discussion will take place today week at Melbourne University, and this will be followed by a meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on 10 April. The Conference will be asked, among other things, to decide whether growers will be willing to finance the new AWC marketing scheme to some extent if it is agreed to. Discussion that has surfaced on reports so far has shown that many grower organisations favour it, that brokers are divided and that buyers are opposed. The responses have been largely traditional and reasonably expected. The brokers, of course, still have a massive vested interest in the status quo with some $3 26m at present in advances to the industry from the pastoral houses. 
At the outset I want to say that I believe the report to be the best produced by the Australian Wool Corporation or its direct predecessors. Although I defer to the knowledge and experience of my colleague, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  I did not think the report was quite as bad as he thought. When it comes to governmental decisions on the report I believe we will be left with a purely political judgment and a lot of information will be lacking if a political judgment has to be made, because the nub of the report, to my mind, centres on marketing rather than economics, and here we are back in the subjective area. There is a lot in the report that is not objectively substantiated. For example, it is not established clearly that the scheme would improve returns in the long term. Financial requirements are difficult to estimate and are not really estimated. How would grower equity be maintained in the early stages if growers were required to build up reserves and as a consequence some growers might not see this to their future benefit? 
Most people would have the scheme described as acquisition, but it is best described as an export marketing system, the fundamental aim of which is to increase the influence the Australian wool industry has over the supply and price of its product. The ownership of all wool destined for export would at some stage prior to export pass to a single marketing authority and this authority would also be required to provide a minimum floor price for wool and effectively control the level and rate of upward price movements. While absolute price stability is said to be neither practical nor desirable, the report contends that price variability needs to be contained through regulation of the sale and distribution of Australian wool. 
In broad terms, the operation of the scheme would involve the majority of growers delivering their wool directly to the authority and receiving payment according to a schedule of prices. The authority would be responsible for subsequent disposal of wool and would employ a number of alternative selling methods as well as holding inventories as part of its marketing operations. The need for a change in the existing methods of marketing wool is based on the conclusion that in the 1970s the textile industry entered a new era requiring different marketing techniques. While the report acknowledges that there are many opportunities for improving marketing efficiency without any major restructuring of the industry, it asserts that considerably more influence over the price and supply of raw wool is in the long term interests of wool and is necessary to overcome the main deficiencies in the current system, which are held to be undue price variability from time to time, key users of wool being unable to be assured of the supplies they need at predictable prices, and inadequacies in the transmission back to growers of the types and values of wool needed by the textile industry. 
It is not certain whether the report implies that processors in the synthetic area of the textile business possess the ideal for which wool should aim when wool in fact undergoes many processes, or whether the report is a marketing model for any product in a situation of diverse producers and diverse processors. In my own mind there is this contradiction. I have not made up my mind on the report but I would be inclined to say that there is as much going for it as there is against it - which says very little. Although it can be argued that the late 1960s and early 1970s were a unique period in terms of the disastrous downturn and that too much emphasis cannot be placed on this, it could equally be argued that now with better prices and the need for more stability this is the time to act. 
There are several areas in the report which cause me concern: firstly, the supply and price variability; second, the problem of second markets; third, the concept of key users; and fourth, finance and the subjectivity of many evaluations of issues that the report discusses. I do not think that it is an economic fact that the market by itself is the main reason for variation in price. It should be pointed out that both supply and price have been problems to wool users only in the past two or three years. Of more significance are relative price and supply variability which are directly related to fashion trends and market shares, that is, wool versus synthetics, in the textile market. The scheme will not attempt to defy market forces but will supposedly resist short term variations. This may be OK in normal conditions but when prices are pushed to particularly high levels, there will be problems of both the payments fixed for the growers and the development of second markets. In trying to predict prices for growers, the Corporation will also be trying to predict end use patterns and the success of firms using wool. That will be extraordinarily difficult. It has more or less indicated that it will be attempting to predict prices 12 to 18 months ahead and I have doubts as to how this operation could be done. 
Much of the report is elegantly argued, particularly on inventories, but when questions are asked of it and one reads further, one always tends to get subjective answers. The Corporation would say that it will be able to forestall the possibility of second markets, that the major proportion of price variation is due to the market and that no one will ever eradicate fluctuations. It would also say that there have always been middle men but that wool will remain for the true user in the market. It would say that in asking for proof, one is asking for more than any company does in making a major business marketing decision or a major investment decision. It would say that until it gets into the market place and uses its skill it will never know. The concept of key users in terms of the importance of supply assurance is stressed in the report. Page 77 of the report states:   a case exists to change the present system to ensure a wool marketing authority is in a position to exercise significant control over the supply of wool so that, under all circumstances, key sectors of the industry receive an adequate supply of wool at a price determined sufficiently forward to be known at the time fibre selection is made. 
But if this policy were applied it would be necessary to identify key users. This would additionally require predictions of corporate success and the role of firms as industry leaders as well as predictions of the relative market position of specific wool end users. Furthermore, it should be noted that the report, on page 4, declares that the most significant decision makers with respect to choice of fibres are the fabric and garment manufacturers. It is not clear how the authority would propose making sure that these users, who are considerably removed from the raw wool stage in the textile pipeline, could be assured of the supplies that they need. It also needs to be noted that the statements concerning allocation, on page 8, and key users, on page 77, seem confusing and, to some extent, contradictory. In particular it is unclear whether it is proposed that in times of allocation key users would continue to get their requirement or be rationed along with all customers. Again we are faced with subjective answers to hypothetical questions if we subject the report to a lot of scrutiny in this area. 
In terms of finance, I cannot really see why the Treasury should be all that concerned, but I suppose it will be, as it is already funding a large amount of wool being held by the Corporation. All that really will be needed is government guarantees for the Corporation, and then it may be able to fund itself from the domestic or possibly the international money markets. The allocation of wool and the concomitant inventory of wool that will be needed in any other than normal periods of supply and price will mean that the Corporation must always be able to give the impression that it is in a strong position. It cannot ever be seen to be placed in a weak position because this would put the buyers in a much stronger position. 
I think it could be argued that the Corporation will have a low probability of both' excessive gains and losses and that other than in exceptional periods contingency funds, which may be provided by the industry, would suffice. I am quite sure that the growers will not want a bar of the Corporation if the Government is seen to be directly running the Corporation. Given this, the growers may be prepared to provide these contingency funds or reserves. Some estimates of funds required have been made, and the amount for inventory could go as high as $120m, with possibly only $80m ever being required as a revolving fund. It is about 98 per cent certain, in my opinion, that no more than $300m would ever be needed in the most dire situations, but I would not like anyone to ask me to prove that. 
Many growers will ask more selfish questions than the ones I have asked, and many minor technical matters need to be resolved. Unfortunately, I think that these can be resolved only by the scheme getting under way. I have pointed out the main deficiencies that I see in the scheme and also the problem of subjectivity. As a person who believes, along with the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, that more objectivity is possible in wool marketing, perhaps I am being too optimistic about the possible success of the scheme. However, I believe that if the scheme is implemented many of the projections in it could - and I emphasise the word 'could' - occur purely and simply because of an attitude of self-fulfilling prophecy. This would occur only if the major consuming countries see merit or advantages in it for themselves and largely co-operate in the first year. 
As Japan acts almost as a centrally planned economy and as true centrally planned economies are becoming larger users of wool, there is some hope of acceptance. But this in turn gets back to the question of whether the growers will be prepared to take more risk as a quid pro quo for greater stability. If, when talking of this proposed scheme, we are only ever going to be talking subjectively of a marketing, wheeling-dealing organisation - one which will keep its figures to itself by definition; one which will be working in the market place - and if it is agreed politically that the scheme is worth a go, then we have to be assured that we will have .the personnel. A few key men will be what makes it work or not. So all we need is the wisdom of Solomon and the right men to do the job. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 12 March 1974 that  Mr Douglas  Darby, MLA, has set up an office in Taipei which offers all the services of a consulate. 
If so, what is the status of the consulate. 
Is the  Mr Douglas  Darby referred to in the article as  President  of the 'Australia-Free China Society' the same  Mr Darby  who was  Chairman  of the Cricket for Free China Committee in 1970 (Hansard, 26 October 1971, pages 2559-60). 
If so, has the Government provided, or does it intend to provide, financial assistance to  Mr Darby's  more recent venture on a scale comparable to that provided by the previous Government for his earlier foray into international relations. 
At the outset I must say that I agree with much that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  had to say. I trust that he will be participating in the Walk Against Want being organised by Community Aid Abroad in Melbourne this Sunday. During the last week or so it has been my privilege to hear 2 speakers on matters very relevant to the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill which is now before the House. Possibly the most eloquent speech was made by  His Excellency  Julius Nyerere of the United Republic of Tanzania in the dining room of this building. He spoke of his country and its problems. He itemised in detail the sort of problems that an underdeveloped country in Africa faces. Yesterday I heard from  Mr Jack  Westoby, formerly a forestry officer of the Food and Agriculture Organisation, who made 3 very pertinent points with respect to forestry policies in Australia and the way in which we should regard all of the world in terms of our trading relations. He made the point that in forgetting developing countries we forget our own consumers. This has a direct bearing on tariffs. He also said that poverty is directly linked with the affluence in the developed countries. He said too that more and more multi-lateral agencies were being squeezed. 
The Bill before the House is one of the greatest importance and if the Australian Development Assistance Agency achieves onetenth of what many wish it to accomplish; if it achieves an understanding of even 2 underdeveloped countries; if it achieves complete acceptance by any recipient countries of its mode of operation, then it will have achieved more and will have done more to establish Australia as a country meaningfully concerned with world affairs than any other action the Government can envisage. The task is daunting but not overwhelming. The problem is not to spend money but to spend it wisely when there is little agreement on the best way to assist economically. So that people reading Hansard may get an idea of the dimensions of the Australian Government's aid I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table from a report of the Auditor-General. 
Can the Minister for the Capital Territory inform me whether there is any legislation designed or proposed to control hen numbers in the Australian Capital Territory? Does the Minister agree that it is essential for the Australian Capital Territory to have a hen quota and licensing system framed in terms similar to that of the States which have now finally agreed on the necessity of the move? Is it a fact that the historical hen number of  85,000  in the Australian Capital Territory is exceeded by a large margin and that a quota of  140,000  hens would supply the Australian Capital Territory with eggs, would give an assurance to the local producers and would enable his department to examine the issue properly? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Secondary Industry. In view of the threats by the Opposition parties to vote in the Senate against the Government's appropriation Bills and so refuse funds for the implementation of the Government's legislation, can the Minister for Secondary Industry give the House any facts that would indicate the measure of prosperity of Australia's secondary industries that has resulted from the efforts of this Labor Government compared with the efforts of the previous Government? 
We have just heard the usual breast beating, the usual sort of emotion and the usual exaggerated claims of the Opposition based on leaks and newspaper stories. We have heard no policies put forward. The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  referred to the Millar Committee as having a differing strategic assessment of the defence situation facing Australia.  Dr Millar  has made his position clear on many occasions. He has stated quite recently that he cannot see a threat to this country in the foreseeable future and he does not think it likely for many years to come that we will be sending a major expeditionary force overseas. This is the situation as the Australian Government sees it. The assessment of no threat to Australia for IS years is an assessment of no threat to the continent of Australia. The Committee did not say that there is no threat. This point should be hammered home. We all know that 3 years is probably the outside assessment we can make in regional terms, not in terms of major attacks on the continent of Australia. 
At the outset I would like to refute the squeals from the spoilt babies in the Opposition who say that this announcement is an election gimmick and that it is too little too late. As the secretary of the Government member's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee I can vouch for the fact that this, matter has been talked about constantly since we came into Government. The program roughly as put up has been talked about for the last 6 months. Basically we reached the decisions 2 months ago in all but a few items of cost. If Opposition members had listened carefully in August last year they would have heard then that the Government had made up its mind about destroyer replacements. It was stated clearly at that time. The 2 patrol frigates mentioned in . the present announcement are the major components of that program. 
The Opposition does not understand what is meant by a rolling program. When the Australian Labor Party came to office it found a list of ill conceived and over expensive programs. The Government was given a shopping list. That is the best way to describe it. It was a desirable shopping list. Everything was included on it, but what it meant was that to pay off the capital we would need to have a gross national product figure for defence of at least 7 per cent by 1980 and 1981. Not enough consideration was given to the level of sophistication. The Government's decision announced today reflects the view that the new direction is for more of less sophisticated weapons rather than fewer of more sophisticated weapons. We must accept that Australia is on its own. This has been made quite clear by the United States of America and Great Britain. 
Comments were also made about modesty. As I said, what the Opposition fails to understand is the nature of a rolling program. Decisions this week are only this year's decisions. They are not even the only decisions with respect to the patrol frigates. Others will or will not be ordered in the future to be built here or overseas, depending on that year's evaluation. The program simply rolls every year. In that way no options are closed. Inherent in the concept of a rolling program is the fact that both other orders and increases in sophistication can be slotted into the program and budgeted for. A rolling program allows for advance in our orders, evaluation of the effectiveness of equipment, and increasing sophistication of equipment. The question of whether the program is imaginative simply is not relevant. What has been announced has been heavily researched in terms of the right types of equipment and the right cost. In terms of the equipment mix the Government has put forward, this does not indicate imagination in the total mix but it does indicate that we are setting off in new directions in programming. This is the major breakthrough. Next year's program is not pre-empted by this announcement. 
Let us have a look at the DDL program. It certainly pre-empted all the Government's naval procurement decisions for a long time ahead. These are the 12 ships which, under the Liberal procrastination and so-called planning, became three. These 3 ships, instead of becoming hunters, became hunted ships. The patrol frigate has quite a few advantages over the DDL. The 2 most obvious advantages are the low cost and early delivery schedules. As detailed by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  the savings on an equal buy for the patrol frigate manufactured in the United States amount to some $73m, assuming that the DDL program had proceeded without any difficulties. The patrol frigate has been the subject of one of the most rigorous development programs ever undertaken by the United States Navy. All major sub-systems are being developed by the United States Navy before they are incorporated in the final design. Once congressional approval has been given, however, production of the first batch of ships will proceed rapidly. We will receive them in 1979 or early 1980. 
There are a few disadvantages. Mention has been made of the gunnery. But here again there are sound technical reasons for the gunnery that is on the ship. The option of a five inch gun is not lost. There are advantages also in terms of range and sea keeping in which the patrol frigate slightly shades the DDL. All the electronics are virtually the same. The patrol frigate is well ahead in terms of the new maintenance philosophy. So in quite a few areas the patrol frigate is well ahead of the DDL. This program does not limit options in the way the DDL project did. 
There has been criticism of the dockyard labour force. It is said that not enough work wil be provided for the dockyards. The simple fact is that Garden Island dockyard has the DDG refit which will take from 1 976 onwards. It has enough work until then. I refer to the automated fire command installation on the ship. Williamstown dockyard is being upgraded. It will be working on the destroyer escorts from 1977 onwards and on the 'Cook', the oceanographic ship, from late this year. Cockatoo Island will carry out 2 submarine refits in 1976 and also will work on the DE electronics. All these things indicate that there is a full workload in the dockyards and that, in fact, from 1976 onwards, we will need to recruit a lot more people. 
In the few minutes available to me, I should like to express my delight at the Government's decision in respect of HMAS 'Melbourne'. I am not aware of the naval air power study in full, but I do hear some rather sombre rumblings from the Department of Defence and I should like to congratulate the Minister for Defence for taking the wider view of his advisers' and his own personal attitudes on this matter as well as the advice of the Government's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. What will now happen is that the 'Melbourne' will go into dock for 2 months for a refit, when a thorough, careful examination of the full extent of its operational life will be made. Here, I am referring mainly to the hull. The results of this survey which I am sure will be favourable will enable a massive refit to take place that -will allow the Government to plan on the availability of the 'Melbourne' until 1985 or 1986. The situation has changed with respect to technology in the last month or so in regard to naval air power. It is only in the last 2 months that the Harrier concept has been seen to be a real goer. The United States is now thinking of the advanced version of the Harrier called the AVI 6 which the Hawker-Siddeley and McDonnell-Douglas companies are developing. This development will give a longer lease of life to all aircraft carriers throughout the world. The AV16 is. 50 per cent more effective in terms of strike power than the A4s which we have. 
The final point I should like to make is that if the fleet air arm is going to carry through until 1985 or 1986 with this massive refit of the 'Melbourne' it is essential that in the meantime the A4s have either Harpoon or Bullpup missiles. I think the Minister for Defence is to be congratulated on the thoroughness of the statement and the fact that it is well researched and gives all the reasons why we have opted for this mix. The statement represents only this year's decisions made now. It does not pre-empt future decisions in terms of the rolling program. What is unique about the statement is that the Minister said that inherently this is part of the rolling program of defence procurement which will continue for ever in Australia. 
My question is to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What is the position regarding the supply of liquefied petroleum gas in Australia? What actions can the Government take to ensure supplies for Australian consumers? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development Has the Premier of New South Wales agreed to the establishment of a land commission in that State? What stage have negotiations reached? Are the terms and conditions being discussed the same as those agreed to by other States, some time ago? Has the Minister seen reports that the average cost of a block of land in New South Wales is now $20,000, whereas the cost of a similar block in South Australia now rarely exceeds $5,800? Further, is it a fact that moneys allocated in the 1973-74 Budget for the south-west corridor of Sydney remain unspent? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
How many Australians are engaged in projects as part of aid programs in Indonesia. 
On what projects are they engaged. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What foreign aid functions are still administered by the Department o fForeign Affairs. 
When does the Minister expect them to be transferred to the proposed Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action did Australia take to promote independence for (a) New Caledonia, (b) New Hebrides and (c) the Solomon Islands during 1973-74. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, . upon notice: 
What representations has the Australian Government made to the Governments of: 
Singapore and 
Indonesia regarding political prisoners. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made for coordination between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the proposed Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many mixed blood orphans fathered by by (a) allied and (b) Australian troops are known to reside in Vietnam. 
What responsibilities do the United States and Australian Governments assume for orphans. 
Has the South Vietnamese government made any approach to the Australian Government on this matter. (4)If so, what were the terms of the approach, and what was the Australian Government's response. 
Have any other agencies approached the Australian Government on the matter. 
If so, what were the terms of the approach, and what was the Australian Government's response. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Australians are engaged in projects as part of aid programs in (a) Fiji, (b) Western Samoa, (c) Tonga, (d) New Hebrides and (e) the Solomon Islands. 
On what projects are they engaged. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the total value of Australian aid to (a) Fiji, (b) Western Samoa and (c) Tonga during 1973/74. 
What form did this aid take. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the current (a) Third and (b) Second Division establishment of the office of the proposed 
Australian Development Assistance Agency, and how many of these positions are currently staffed on a permanent basis. 
How many (a) Third and (b) Second Division officers employed in the office: 
were transferred' from the former Department of External Territories; and 
have been seconded from the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government of Fiji made any representations to the Australian Government concerning the activity of Australian businesses in Fiji. 
If so, what was the response of the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the percentage turnover of employees in major Australian industries. 
What arc the major reasons for this job turnover. 
-The Government should be delighted that the Opposition has taken the stand that it has on this matter. During the last 2 elections one of the major issues was who owns Australia. That was particularly in evidence in the election on 1 8 May last. I was not surprised by some of the attitudes evinced by some honourable members and senators opposite, but I was rather dismayed by their lack of awareness of the issues involved and the reasons why the Government is acting in this manner. I am very surprised that they do not really understand the true nature of the multi-national companies. I am disgusted with the Opposition's attack on Tom Fitzgerald.  His  report was not a propaganda report. I think that to criticise Fitzgerald personally is to insult him. 
He is a public servant and he is working for Australia. Let us look at the Bill. The concept of the Bill is simple. It seeks to create a government oil company which is capable of undertaking the full range of petroleum activities from the point of exploration to the point of distribution, to create a government mining company which is capable of undertaking mining activities from the point of exploration to the point of refinement of the metal, and to create a government authority to assist companies which are undertaking any of the activities which the Petroleum and Minerals Authority can undertake. 
In relation to that matter let us look at clause 8 of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. Clause 8 (a) is directed primarily at those Australian mining ventures which, having discovered a mineral resource of definite potential, are unable to finance the further exploration and development necessary to complete the economic viability of the discovery. Those companies would normally look to a larger operating company for the necessary help. But Australian companies have a limited capacity and willingness to take on new ventures of that type. Therefore they find themselves turning to overseas companies, which thereby secure an interest in our natural resources. To replace them the Government has decided that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be authorised to assist those ventures. The decisions of the Authority will be based upon the merits of each proposal brought before it. 
Clause 10 to the Bill refers to the duties of the Authority. It will be required to conduct its operations in a proper and workmanlike manner and, in accordance with good industrial practices, to look after the safety, health and welfare of persons engaged in those operations. It will be required to interfere as little as possible with navigation, to have regard to the conservation of the reserves of the sea and the sea bed, to have regard to operations being carried on by other persons engaged in similar activities and to consider, in the exercise of its functions, factors connected with the ecology and the environment. Because the Authority is not subject to the mining codes of the States it has a series of duties imposed upon it by clause 10, particularly clause 10 (3). The imposition of these duties would appear to place a greater burden upon the Authority than simply compliance with State laws. The test for the latter is simply: Has one complied? In the former, the test is whether in all circumstances the Authority has acted reasonably. 
The Authority is not subject to State law because its powers flow from the Constitution and it would be a denial of the Constitution to make the exercise of its powers subject to a State. I ask the House to compare it to the defence power. As State mining laws do not apply it is necessary to give the Authority alternative means of gaining access to areas for its activities; hence the declaration provisions in Part VI of the Bill and the powers of entry in clauses 13 and 14. Much has been made of the powers of the Authority in clause 12. Of course, they are far reaching for 2 very good reasons. The Government wants to enable the Authority to behave and conduct its business in the same manner as any oil or mining company. These provisions simply reflect those powers which the articles of association of any oil or mining company would contain. The Government would not want to limit the means of assisting companies other than to make gifts or simply pay subsidies. It was suggested during a previous debate by one speaker that the elimination of assistance by way of financial grant or subsidy left only expertise to be provided by way of assistance. This is, of course, nonsense as the powers to lend moneys, underwrite shares and give guarantees will clearly indicate. 
It is ridiculous to suggest that these powers are capable, in practical terms, of being used to nationalise or socialise any more than the comparable provisions in the articles of association of a company. Of course, the company can acquire shares in any company, for this is the normal means by which oil and mining companies undertake certain aspects of their business. It is on exactly the same footing. If it was not on this footing it would not be a competent company. It would not be a company that in fact could compete. The electorate I represent contains 14 large coal mines, with more being developed, thanks to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Conner).  At least 3,000 men are engaged full time in the industry. I am proud to represent coal miners. The miners themselves see the need for the Australian Government to identify the national interest in respect of the exploitation of minerals and energy in this country. They see the need for Australian people to have a share in that exploitation and they see the need for the development of a national policy for minerals and energy. They see these needs not just because it is their labour which wins the coal but because by working in the industry they know more than most of us what has, what is and what can occur in it. Above all, they believe- like I think all Australians would- that this land is ours, that we have a responsibility to future generations and that the sell-out of our resources must be stopped. 
The major company involved in mining in the electorate of Macarthur is the 100 per cent overseas owned company Clutha Development Pry Ltd. The coal Clutha produces in the Burragorang Valley is exported. The miners themselves are not anti-Clutha. Neither am I antimultinational corporations. As yet no money has been returned to the United States by Clutha. However, the main competition for export markets, particularly before the Labor Government came to office, came from another overseas owned company. It was the Utah Development Co. and it mainly mines in Queensland. This is the company to which Bjelke-Petersen has handed some 2,000 million tons of reserves which are worth more than $25,000m. Prior to this Government taking office we had the situation whereby Clutha and Utah were cutting each other's throats competing for export markets with our coal. The stage had been reached where the viability of Clutha was threatened by the success of Utah. What the miners and I asked during 1971-72 was: If we reversed the situation, would the United States Government allow 2 companies from Australia to come to its country's shores, mine coal entirely for export and then engage in competition for overseas markets to the detriment of local industry? What I say to those opposite is that no sensible sovereign government could possibly think of allowing this to happen. Yet the Opposition when in government did. 
The former Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, came to my electorate and assured the miners there that little could be done about the situation because Utah was mining in Queensland and it was up to that State to decide. I believe that the former Department of National Development was not only misnamed, but as it was stuctured it was completely inadequate for the task of guiding Australia's mineral development. With the establishment of the Department of Minerals and Energy and with the influence of Rex Connor all export contracts were scrutinised using powers available to the Australian Government and the industry is now returning to sanity and there are now long term prospects for it. So much for not being able to do anything about the situation. 
We all know that a favourable vote on the motion which will be put at the end of this sitting tonight will not see the Bill in the clear. It will again be opposed in the High Court. The obstruction by the Opposition, especially the Senate Opposition, to this Bill is well known. Again tonight we have heard the same old arguments trotted out. In all the arguments that have been put forward by members of the Opposition there has not been one word, not one policy and not one matter raised in terms of a viable alternative policy. It is just simply opposition- opposition to the concept, opposition to the philosophy, opposition to clauses or opposition for opposition's sake. What the Opposition wants to go back to are the days of 'nothing can be done'. The opposition to this measure is not just conservative reaction, not just sycophancy, not just well meaning stupidity but ideological opposition that I believe blinds itself to the situation of Australia and to the shape of contemporary international industrial society. To my mind this ideological opposition is basically un-Australian. The Opposition would rather sell us down the drain due to its belief that any development carried out by anyone must be good as long as the Government does not do it or does not know about it. In other words, in government the Liberal and Country Parties did not believe in governing and out of government they do not believe in allowing the elected popular government to govern. As I said, there has not been one word from the Opposition of any viable alternative to keep Australia for Australians. 
Minerals and energy are very much part of modern industrial society where multi-national companies now play such a large part. Old ideas of competitive capitalism have long passed. Indeed, many of the complexities and perplexities of inflation defy classic economic resolution because the rules themselves have changed. Particularly in the minerals and energy sector of industry most costs are financed from profits, tax manipulation or interdivisional transfers within multi-national companies themselves. This is accomplished to such an extent that traditional fiscal and monetary policies implemented by mere nation states have little effect other than to help the same companies to eliminate lesser competition. 
Just as the Australian people almost wholly financed our oil refining capacity in the 1950s via the manipulation of import prices for oil, the Australian people have almost wholly financed much of the mineral development of Australia in the 1960s. So much for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill taking taxpayers' funds and all the pious words spoken about that. That the Opposition did not know about the process under way in this latter period is well evidenced by the Fitzgerald report and to some extent by the Rae report on securities and exchange. What these 2 reports have shown above all else is what mugs the members of the Opposition were with respect to the mineral development of this country. I do not know whether one can quantify the position or not, but from my reading of the Rae report, the Australian Government virtually financed much of the stock boom, perhaps to the value of some $50m. 
The essential issue is what return are the Australian people going to obtain from the exploitation of the country's own natural resources? The Fitzgerald report has shown that the Australian Government has finished in the red from its relations with the nation's most profitable and heavily foreign owned industrial sector. Not only that, but with existing concessions, we are further financing the same companies to expand at a rapid rate to a stage where, unless we act, we will have no options in the future. 
When I speak of multinational companies, I do not wish necessarily to attribute to them improper motives, capriciousness, dastardly acts or menacing aims. They are a phenomenon of the present century and are organisational forms with which governments have not yet effectively grappled. They have skills and abilities that few of our own companies can match. Many multinational companies are far bigger than many nation states. What is of concern is that it is nearly impossible for governments to find out what multinational companies are up to and whether they are acting in the national interest.  Major companies  in key industries have enormous power of persuasion with the people and with legislators. 
Let us look at the energy crisis. 'Crisis' is a word, the currency of which is greatly debased. One of the in phrases that anyone can use is 'the energy crisis'. It can be shown that the so-called energy crisis in the United States of America is really a business crisis or, more properly, a policy crisis. The current energy crisis in the United States is the fifth annual energy crisis. The story changes each year. This year, the villains are the Arabs, when in truth the largest oil companies, acting in cahoots with an administration which is now passing judgment on itself, are promoting a crisis in their own interests. The use of this term first arose in 1969 when, following the most profitable decade in the history of the oil industry, that industry faced problems in relation to the environment, import quotas and the oil depletion allowance. 
Yet, the oil companies have always bounced back. The top 8 oil companies now have 64 per cent of known reserves; the top 20 companies have 94 per cent of known reserves. It is the gas stations owned by the smaller companies which are closed in the United States. These same massive companies are moving into all energy sources fields. For example, the Exxon company recently purchased 7 billion tons of coal reserves, the Occidental company bought out the Island Creek coal company and the Atlantic-Richfield organisation became the second largest holder of federal coal leases. The top 25 oil companies in the United States now control 84 per cent of all oil, 72 per cent of all gas, 54 per cent of all coal and 80 per cent of all atomic power, together with 60 per cent of all electric power in the United States. These are the sorts of companies with which this Government- this nation statehas to grapple. For these reasons, I consider that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is a first step in gaining access to knowledge that will allow us to help our own companies to compete on equal terms with these multinational companies. 
-The Government should be delighted that the Opposition has taken the stand that it has on this matter. During the last 2 elections one of the major issues was who owns Australia. That was particularly in evidence in the election on 1 8 May last. I was not surprised by some of the attitudes evinced by some honourable members and senators opposite, but I was rather dismayed by their lack of awareness of the issues involved and the reasons why the Government is acting in this manner. I am very surprised that they do not really understand the true nature of the multi-national companies. I am disgusted with the Opposition's attack on Tom Fitzgerald.  His  report was not a propaganda report. I think that to criticise Fitzgerald personally is to insult him. 
He is a public servant and he is working for Australia. Let us look at the Bill. The concept of the Bill is simple. It seeks to create a government oil company which is capable of undertaking the full range of petroleum activities from the point of exploration to the point of distribution, to create a government mining company which is capable of undertaking mining activities from the point of exploration to the point of refinement of the metal, and to create a government authority to assist companies which are undertaking any of the activities which the Petroleum and Minerals Authority can undertake. 
In relation to that matter let us look at clause 8 of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. Clause 8 (a) is directed primarily at those Australian mining ventures which, having discovered a mineral resource of definite potential, are unable to finance the further exploration and development necessary to complete the economic viability of the discovery. Those companies would normally look to a larger operating company for the necessary help. But Australian companies have a limited capacity and willingness to take on new ventures of that type. Therefore they find themselves turning to overseas companies, which thereby secure an interest in our natural resources. To replace them the Government has decided that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be authorised to assist those ventures. The decisions of the Authority will be based upon the merits of each proposal brought before it. 
Clause 10 to the Bill refers to the duties of the Authority. It will be required to conduct its operations in a proper and workmanlike manner and, in accordance with good industrial practices, to look after the safety, health and welfare of persons engaged in those operations. It will be required to interfere as little as possible with navigation, to have regard to the conservation of the reserves of the sea and the sea bed, to have regard to operations being carried on by other persons engaged in similar activities and to consider, in the exercise of its functions, factors connected with the ecology and the environment. Because the Authority is not subject to the mining codes of the States it has a series of duties imposed upon it by clause 10, particularly clause 10 (3). The imposition of these duties would appear to place a greater burden upon the Authority than simply compliance with State laws. The test for the latter is simply: Has one complied? In the former, the test is whether in all circumstances the Authority has acted reasonably. 
The Authority is not subject to State law because its powers flow from the Constitution and it would be a denial of the Constitution to make the exercise of its powers subject to a State. I ask the House to compare it to the defence power. As State mining laws do not apply it is necessary to give the Authority alternative means of gaining access to areas for its activities; hence the declaration provisions in Part VI of the Bill and the powers of entry in clauses 13 and 14. Much has been made of the powers of the Authority in clause 12. Of course, they are far reaching for 2 very good reasons. The Government wants to enable the Authority to behave and conduct its business in the same manner as any oil or mining company. These provisions simply reflect those powers which the articles of association of any oil or mining company would contain. The Government would not want to limit the means of assisting companies other than to make gifts or simply pay subsidies. It was suggested during a previous debate by one speaker that the elimination of assistance by way of financial grant or subsidy left only expertise to be provided by way of assistance. This is, of course, nonsense as the powers to lend moneys, underwrite shares and give guarantees will clearly indicate. 
It is ridiculous to suggest that these powers are capable, in practical terms, of being used to nationalise or socialise any more than the comparable provisions in the articles of association of a company. Of course, the company can acquire shares in any company, for this is the normal means by which oil and rnining companies undertake certain aspects of their business. It is on exactly the same footing. If it was not on this footing it would not be a competent company. It would not be a company that in fact could compete. The electorate I represent contains 14 large coal mines, with more being developed, thanks to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Conner).  At least 3,000 men are engaged full time in the industry. I am proud to represent coal miners. The miners themselves see the need for the Australian Government to identify the national interest in respect of the exploitation of minerals and energy in this country. They see the need for Australian people to have a share in that exploitation and they see the need for the development of a national policy for minerals and energy. They see these needs not just because it is their labour which wins the coal but because by working in the industry they know more than most of us what has, what is and what can occur in it. Above all, they believe- like I think all Australians would- that this land is ours, that we have a responsibility to future generations and that the sell-out of" our resources must be stopped. 
The major company involved in mining in the electorate of Macarthur is the 100 per cent overseas owned company Clutha Development Pty Ltd. The coal Clutha produces in the Burragorang Valley is exported. The miners themselves are not anti-Clutha. Neither am I antimultinational corporations. As yet no money has been returned to the United States by Clutha. However, the main competition for export markets, particularly before the Labor Government came to office, came from another overseas owned company. It was the Utah Development Co. and it mainly mines in Queensland. This is the company to which Bjelke-Petersen has handed some 2,000 million tons of reserves which are worth more than $2 5 ,000m. Prior to this Government taking office we had the situation whereby Clutha and Utah were cutting each other's throats competing for export markets with our coal. The stage had been reached where the viability of Clutha was threatened by the success of Utah. What the miners and I asked during 1971-72 was: If we reversed the situation, would the United States Government allow 2 companies from Australia to come to its country's shores, mine coal entirely for export and then engage in competition for overseas markets to the detriment of local industry? What I say to those opposite is that no sensible sovereign government could possibly think of allowing this to happen. Yet the Opposition when in government did. 
The former Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, came to my electorate and assured the miners there that little could be done about the situation because Utah was mining in Queensland and it was up to that State to decide. I believe that the former Department of National Development was not only misnamed, but as it was structured it was completely inadequate for the task of guiding Australia's mineral development. With the establishment of the Department of Minerals and Energy and with the influence of Rex Connor all export contracts were scrutinised using powers available to the Australian Government and the industry is now returning to sanity and there are now long term prospects for it. So much for not being able to do anything about the situation. 
We all know that a favourable vote on the motion which will be put at the end of this sitting tonight will not see the Bill in the clear. It will again be opposed in the High Court. The obstruction by the Opposition, especially the Senate Opposition, to this Bill is well known. Again tonight we have heard the same old arguments trotted out. In all the arguments that have been put forward by members of the Opposition there has not been one word, not one policy and not one matter raised in terms of a viable alternative policy. It is just simply opposition- opposition to the concept, opposition to the philosophy, opposition to clauses or opposition for opposition's sake. What the Opposition wants to go back to are the days of 'nothing can be done'. The opposition to this measure is not just conservative reaction, not just sycophancy, not just well meaning stupidity but ideological opposition that I believe blinds itself to the situation of Australia and to the shape of contemporary international industrial society. To my mind this ideological opposition is basically un-Australian. The Opposition would rather sell us down the drain due to its belief that any development carried out by anyone must be good as long as the Government does not do it or does not know about it. In other words, in government the Liberal and Country Parties did not believe in governing and out of government they do not believe in allowing the elected popular government to govern. As I said, there has not been one word from the Opposition of any viable alternative to keep Australia for Australians. 
Minerals and energy are very much part of modern industrial society where multi-national companies now play such a large part. Old ideas of competitive capitalism have long passed. Indeed, many of the complexities and perplexities of inflation defy classic economic resolution because the rules themselves have changed. Particularly in the minerals and energy sector of industry most costs are financed from profits, tax manipulation or interdivisional transfers within multi-national companies themselves. This is accomplished to such an extent that traditional fiscal and monetary policies implemented by mere nation states have little effect other than to help the same companies to eliminate lesser competition. 
Just as the Australian people almost wholly financed our oil refining capacity in the 1 950s via the manipulation of import prices for oil, the Australian people have almost wholly financed much of the mineral development of Australia in the 1 960s. So much for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill taking taxpayers' funds and all the pious words spoken about that. That the Opposition did not know about the process under way in this latter period is well evidenced by the Fitzgerald report and to some extent by the Rae report on securities and exchange. What these 2 reports have shown above all else is what mugs the members of the Opposition were with respect to the mineral development of this country. I do not know whether one can quantify the position or not, but from my reading of the Rae report, the Australian Government virtually financed much of the stock boom, perhaps to the value of some $50m. 
The essential issue is what return are the Australian people going to obtain from the exploitation of the country's own natural resources? The Fitzgerald report has shown that the Australian Government has finished in the red from its relations with the nation's most profitable and heavily foreign owned industrial sector. Not only that, but with existing concessions, we are further financing the same companies to expand at a rapid rate to a stage where, unless we act, we will have no options in the future. 
When I speak of multinational companies, I do not wish necessarily to attribute to them improper motives, capriciousness, dastardly acts or menacing aims. They are a phenomenon of the present century and are organisational forms with which governments have not yet effectively grappled. They have skills and abilities that few of our own companies can match. Many multinational companies are far bigger than many nation states. What is of concern is that it is  nearly impossible for governments to find out what multinational companies are up to and whether they are acting in the national interest.  Major companies  in key industries have enormous power of persuasion with the people and with legislators. 
Let us look at the energy crisis. 'Crisis' is a word, the currency of which is greatly debased. One of the in phrases that anyone can use is 'the energy crisis'. It can be shown that the so-called energy crisis in the United States of America is really a business crisis or, more properly, a policy crisis. The current energy crisis in the United States is the fifth annual energy crisis. The story changes each year. This year, the villains are the Arabs, when in truth the largest oil companies, acting in cahoots with an administration which is now passing judgment on itself, are promoting a crisis in their own interests. The use of this term first arose in 1969 when, following the most profitable decade in the history of the oil industry, that industry faced problems in relation to the environment, import quotas and the oil depletion allowance. 
Yet, the oil companies have always bounced back. The top 8 oil companies now have 64 per cent of known reserves; the top 20 companies have 94 per cent of known reserves. It is the gas stations owned by the smaller companies which are closed in the United States. These same massive companies are moving into all energy sources fields. For example, the Exxon company recently purchased 7 billion tons of coal reserves, the Occidental company bought out the Island Creek coal company and the Atlantic-Richfield organisation became the second largest holder of federal coal leases. The top 25 oil companies in the United States now control 84 per cent of all oil, 72 per cent of all gas, 54 per cent of all coal and 80 per cent of all atomic power, together with 60 per cent of all electric power in the United States. These are  the  sorts of companies with which this Government- this nation statehas to grapple. For these reasons, I consider that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is a first step in gaining access to knowledge that will allow us to help our own companies to compete on equal terms with these multinational companies. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What regulations govern carriage of passengers by foreign vessels on the Australian coast. 
Is preference given to ships of nations in the Commonwealth of Nations. 
How many foreign ships applied for permission to carry passengers on the Australian coast during the period 1 January to 30 January 1 974. 
How many permits were issued. 
Did the Nauruan vessel 'Enna G' apply for a permit to carry passengers between Sydney and Brisbane on a voyage leaving Sydney on 20 June 1 974. 
If so, was a permit granted. If not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of the Social Welfare Commission. 
) How many of these positions are staffed. 
What ceiling has been placed on the staff of the Commission in line with the Government's decision to limit Public Service growth. 
Which body under his control is responsible for formulation and implementation of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What arrangements exist for coordination between his Department and the Commission. 
Has the Deputy Chairman of the Commission been appointed. 
If so, who is the appointee, and what are his or her qualifications. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Reserve Mining Company's plant at Silver Bay, Minnesota, U.S.A., is one of the main sources of pollution of Lake Superior. 
Can he also say whether this Company is jointly owned by the Republic Steel Company and the Armco Company. 
Is the Armco company the same Company as that which has announced plans at various times to establish a steelworks at Jervis Bay. 
Is the form of solid waste pollution mainly rock, refuse and tailings containing asbestos-like material which may cause cancer. 
Are there any other examples of the Armco Company acting in contravention of desirable environmental practice. 
Have any investigations been carried out into the possible harmful effects to employees working in Australian asbestos industries. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What foreign aid functions are still administered by his Department. 
Which of them are to be transferred to the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the structure of unemployment in socioeconomicdemographic terms for males and females in country as opposed to metropolitan employment districts, e.g. migrant, above 50 year old male labourers, Aborigines, skilled, unskilled, female office employees, graduates, etc. 
What is the typical duration of unemployment for people in country as opposed to metropolitan employment districts. 
Are there any measures of permanent unemployed which would show- any variation between country and metropolitan unemployed. 
Do the present aggregate figures of unemployed persons accurately describe the market for labour if a level of unemployed is a permanent and inescapable part of the labour situation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has an evaluation of the benefits of the introduction of flexi-time to some Departments of the Australian Public Service been carried out. 
If so, what have been the main advantages and disadvantages. 
-The prophets of doom got up early this morning,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The architects of divide and rule have been at their drawing boards again. We have heard a lot of rhetoric, we have heard a lot of extravagant language, we have heard a lot of figures that are not factual. We have heard the rhetoric about the family farms and we have heard the rhetoric about the bogey of the corporations, when it was the Leader of the Country Party some years back who said about the smaller farmers that 30,000 must go. We are going to turn the country into a desert. We are going to turn all the farmers into peasants. We are even responsible for the weather and the amount of plantings the wheat farmers have engaged in. A few nights ago I congratulated a Country Party member in this House for his responsible attitude to the meeting at Moree and for the way he was privately urging upon the farmers some sort of restraint and some sort of realistic attitude. Leaders of some primary industry organisations themselves - 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What was the total revenue collected from radio and television licences during 1973-74. 
Can an estimate be given of the cost of collecting this revenue. 
How does the Postmaster-General's Department enforce the payment of licences. 
How many people were prosecuted for not possessing a radio and/or television licence, what was the number of convictions, and what was the total amount collected in fines in 1973-74. 
How many staff are engaged full-time, or predominantly full-time, in the issue of licences and in ensuring that owners of radio and television receivers possess a licence. 
-By and large speakers in this debate have attempted to make quite a few constructive points about the wool industry generally. We have seen a tendency to bog down a bit. There has been some rather tortuous argument on the question of prices, such as how many cents will be paid for greasy wool and how many cents will be paid for clean wool. I point out at the outset that some of the comparisons that are being attempted refer to parameters that are not directly comparable. We have a situation that is similar to what it was 2 years ago. I remind members of the House that it was only 2 years ago when we started to look at money values. The reason why this scheme cannot be compared directly with the previous scheme is that the previous scheme was not a reserve scheme in the true meaning of the expression at all. It was a deficiency payments scheme whereby the Government came to the party when the prices dropped below 36c a lb. The Government then sold the wool at whatever price it could get and made up the difference. This is a fixed reserve price. This is not simply splitting hairs; this is a very different animal. 
I was genuinely confused by the approach taken by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  In his speech he said on the one hand that decisions about the wool industry should more properly be made in Parliament, but on the other hand in his amendment he said that the financial arrangements should be made outside the Parliament. I do not particularly disagree with what he is getting at in his second point, but implicit in the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation is this ability to act properly as a marketer in the market. The Government, when it found there were problems with the trading banks which are the usual source of finance for industries, acted perfectly flexibly. I think it is a bit ironic that this cognate debate on wool legislation should come on the day after the Government was censured for having no regard for the economic conditions of the various primary industries. Of course, this debate is taking place less than 24 hours after the decision to devalue. 
As the Green Paper clearly showed, flexible exchange rates are to be the normal business expectancy of the future, particularly for any country trying to reduce tariffs when the world monetary order is in disarray. Devaluation has not been carried out in the singular interests of the wool industry or exporters generally any more than revaluations of last year were carried out to persecute the farmer. I have said before in this place that the reason why the previous Government did not revalue and cut tariffs in 1971, as could have been recommended, was due to the Country Party tail wagging the Liberal dog and to the parlous situation in the wool industry at the time. It was a very hard decision. The point I make is that because wool historically has been so much a consideration when currency matters were being scrutinised the devaluation must be of importance to the industry as a whole. This, together with other measures the Government has announced, must give the industry more confidence in the future. The increased levy made by the growers can now be made in trust. It was the industry's wish. With reference to the second part of the amendment of the honourable member for New England I think it was the desire of the farmers themselves to have some commitment to the industry, apart from government commitment, to give them more independence. This is the reason that the farmers were happy to accept the added levy. But, more importantly, the devaluation decision the Government has made has taken a load off the Australian Wool Corporation which is in a more responsible position than ever before. 
The buyers of our wool, particularly our friends in Japan, will benefit by the decision. It is with interest that I have seen the wool futures market in the last few weeks anticipate the devaluation up till this week. The Bills before the House are simple and undramatic. They could be regarded purely as machinery measures except for the background on which they are superimposed and the dynamic situation which exists at present. The decisions represented by these Bills have been praised by the industry and deserve to be so praised. A major point that must be made is that the Government's action with regard to the wool industry and the way in which the Minister for Agriculture, Ken Wriedt, has quietly, patiently and logically tackled the problems of our major industries are in no way a panic measure. The way the Minister for Agriculture has consulted and negotiated with the wheat industry, the way he has stood firm against pressures when he did not believe in them and the way he has fought, without running to the Press on issues where he has felt his colleagues have erred, has been a model for any person wishing to observe responsible Cabinet government. He has taken flack without becoming ruffled. He has always tried to explain the reasons for actions with which he has agreed or even privately disagreed. To say that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of this Government is in any way superimposing the wishes of his Department over the Department of Agriculture is nonsense. 
The present situation is that proposals of the Minister for Agriculture have been subjected only to the usual Treasury scrutiny. The decision to strike a fixed reserve price for wool at 250c a kilo of average clean micron wool and the decision to devalue are not panic measures, as I said. The decision to make 250c the level of the fixed reserve is in accordance with the figure that the Australian Wool Corporation itself has submitted to the Government in its overall case for market reform and wider powers. The debate about fixed and flexible reserve price schemes has been carried on in Australia since the early 1960s. One only has to think back to the memorable days when  Sir William  Gunn tried to convince the industry of the wisdom of accepting the future reality of trade in commodities such as wool. 
An incredible amount of academic, industry and practical grazier evaluation of various proposals has been carried out. The theory and application of buffer stock schemes has been well canvassed. Today's legislation is a very logical development of moves for reform in the industry over a long period. I must stress that these steps do not themselves represent total market reform or any finality in the debate on this commodity. What the legislation represents, above all, is an insurance against fluctuations and a breathing space for the industry. To continue my analogy, we only have to hold our breath to be sure that loans advanced by the Government will be recouped. Contrary to the line taken by the city Press, taxpayers' funds are not in any way at risk. Of course, it can and must be clearly stated that the last government would not make such confident decisions about the wool market. 
The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Treasurer or Prime Minister would not buy a fixed reserve scheme on behalf of his Party. In 1970, due to fears of the future, the past Government backed the market with a flexible reserve price scheme which amounted to a shaky guarantee of some 79c a kilo average greasy, in today's terminology. The fixed reserve scheme we have introduced gives a firm guarantee of 123c a kilo average greasy. In fact, the market is giving a price very close to that at present. It might be slightly above it at the present day. People may say that things are different now and that we are now in a far different industry situation but I do not believe this is so. People making claims such as this should substantiate them. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  has said, the price we are now guaranteeing on a fixed reserve, not just as a deficiency payment, is 44c a lb above that of the last Government. That was only 2 years ago. Even if we take the most pessimistic figure for inflation in that period of 20 per cent, we will find that the increase in a fixed reserve is in the order of 55 per cent. The price of 123c a kilo has only been exceeded in 6 years of the 23 years that the past Government was in office. This does not mean that the price must hold at 123c but that is the floor below which the price will not sink. Apparently in the past the Country Party would not agree to a fixed reserve price scheme if we are to believe what the honourable member for Richmond said on 15 November 1970. He said: ... the scheme was not intended to force or defy the wool market, but to test it and to get the best and most realistic price the market can pay. I am afraid that those wool growers who believe that wool users can be forced- in this day of ready availability of cheaper, though perhaps inferior textile substitutes- to pay a certain price for wool, are not facing up to the realities of the situation. 
The honourable member for Richmond was clearly implying that he was opposed to a floor price and that the market should be allowed to fall to levels dictated by buyers in the auction room. In those days also there were no proponents of a floor price scheme within the Liberal Party. As well as guaranteeing funds, the Labor Government has acted to expand the powers of the Australian Wool Corporation. Again, these powers are- and other powers now under consideration, if granted will be- a logical extension of marketing research and the Government's desire to guarantee orderly marketing. 
The Australian Wool Corporation now has powers to control the flow of wool on to the market and the nominal power to persuade growers to hold wool on their property. The Australian Wool Corporation in my opinion needs to have the power to buy outside the reserve price scheme if an opportunity presents itself. It also needs to have the power to trade in other than greasy wool. I think at this stage the Australian Wool Corporation would be wise to look carefully towards the next step. I think it would be advised to absorb its new powers and work towards refining the plan it has put up to the Government. The present plan still causes me concern with respect to the concepts of ceiling price, allocation and key user. Having said that the measures taken by the Government do not represent complete market reform, it needs to be said that developments in technology and marketing techniques must continue to run parallel to our moves to give insurance and ameliorate fluctuations in the market. 
There is still a lot of work to be done with respect to handling and work on the mill end of the pipeline as far as objective measurement is concerned. What we need to do now is to talk of an overall marketing system. Although we are starting to see this sort of system develop in Australia it is not so certain that we understand the mill end in terms of lot size and stock holding in particular. Mill confidence needs to be retained. We must work more on this end of the wool pipeline. The handling system that needs to be developed by research very carefully from now on must centre on the flow of wool from grower to mill. 
I have only a few other comments on these Bills. Other honourable members have raised the question of promotion. Again, I would like to see far more scrutiny, particularly in the International Wool Secretariat and some of these bodies engaged in wool promotion. Criteria have to be met for advertising and promoting agricultural products if they are to have reasonable prospects of success. Ross Parish, an agricultural economist, set out in an article the following product characteristics favourable to advertising: 
The existence of an opportunity to differentiate the product. 
The presence of important 'hidden' qualities in the product. 
The association of powerful emotional buying motives. 
Also favouring promotion were the following points: 
A favourable demand trend. 
Existence of many potential consumers. 
A fast turnover of buyers. 
Frequent product changes. 
Frequent price changes. 
It is in that sort of setting that one needs to evaluate promotion in the wool industry. I am afraid that in the past it simply has not been carried out. If one wants to sum up this criteria to see what general criterion of effectiveness one can give, one has to find out whether it supplies the consumer with useful information. Comparing the characteristics of wool with the checklist I have given, only items 1, 3 and 4 seem to be relevant to wool- to separate the identity of wool from synthetics and because the demand for wool is responsive to fashion and income changes. On the other hand, apart from these criteria, synthetics appear to be favoured by the check list numbers of 2, 5, 6 and 7. Along with Parish I see wool promotion as essentially defensive with so many resources committed to wool production in Australia. Promotion to offset the potential risk of not advertising in competition with synthetics could be justified even in the absence of clear evidence of the potential pay-offs. Wool is a commodity which also suffers in that if your promotion is very effective there may be times where all you are doing is simply accentuating the trends. I commend the Bills to the House. 
-I address my question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Government's decision to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic States. Will the Minister outline to the House the possible ramifications of the decision as it affects people in the Baltic States and people in the Baltic community in Australia? In light of the fact that many Estonians in my electorate are disturbed and frightened, will the Minister comment on their particular fear that by intimidation, slander and trumped up charges the Soviet may attempt to obtain deportation orders from the Australian Government in respect of leading persons in the Baltic communities in Australia? 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister and refer to an article in the current issue of the 'National Times' wherein it is alleged that Australian security organisations took over some of the operations of the Central Intelligence Agency in Cambodia with the aim of de-stabilising the Government there in much the same way as the Government of Chile was recently de-stabilised. As the Australian Government now has an inquiry under way into our intelligence services- the inquiry is being held in camera- what assurances can be given to the public to establish that our intelligence services will in future act in Australia's interests and with the awareness of the Government, as quite clearly the previous Government knew nothing of their alleged activities in Cambodia? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon  notice: 
1 ) What is the establishment of the Hospitals and Health Commission. 
2 ) How many of these positions are staffed. 
) What ceiling has been placed on the staff of the Commission in line with the Government's decision to limit Public Service growth. 
What arrangements exist for co-ordination between his Department and the Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) For what purposes are ABC Advisory Committees established. 
What is the term of office of members of these committees. 
What fees are paid. 
How often did the committees in (a) New South Wales and (b) the Australian Capital Territory meet during 1973-74. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the ABC still intend to publish a journal similar to the journal 'Listener' which is published by the BBC. 
If so, when will the first issue be published, and how frequently will the magazine be issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Commission intend to establish a Complaints Commission comparable to that which operates in respect of the British Broadcasting Corporation; if so, when. 
-After listening to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  it is rather obvious that the Budget was designed for electorates such as Macarthur and not for electorates such as Bradfield. I spent an interesting day in the electorate of Macarthur yesterday, and the day brought into focus many of the problems of the electorate. It also brought into focus the way that the Government through the Budget is coping with the problems in the community. In the morning I attended the opening of the Bradury Community Centre at Campbelltown. The opening was performed by the Honourable John Waddy, the New South Wales Minister for Health. I was able to praise the way in which the 3 levels of government had worked together in this project. It was the first such community centre in the western region of Sydney. The 3 levels of Government involved a local community group that had been working for three or four years to try to get together and work out some home nursing services, to give it a centre and to give it some focus in the western region of Sydney. The allocation in the Budget for this type of service has been increased by some $25. lm to $35m. All that was allocated to this one centre was $51,000. Yet here we have enormous impact on the community around Campbelltown. A need for such a centre has existed and has been known for a long time. If we divide the $51,000 into the $35m we have allocated and if we take into account the involvement of the State and local community groups in this matter we will see the impact of just one policy of the Government. 
We have also gone along with the State governments for a long time and with the experts of the various State health departments and health commissions with respect to mental health. Last year we introduced the Mental Health and Related Services Assistance Act 1973. This legislation was aimed at setting up centres and creating the means of helping people with mental illness, alcoholism and drug dependency. Again we have increased the Budget allocation by some $800,000 to $7.5m in the current year in this field. There has been agreement between the 3 levels of government in all these things- the community health centres, the drop-in centres and the various forms of centres that have been created in a flexible manner. There has been no talk about socialism, centralism or any other 'ism '. 
Perhaps we still do have a disagreement on the need for a public hospital in Campbelltown with the New South Wales Government sticking to its guns and saying that it will not commence a public hospital in this area even with Australian Government aid before it is ready to do so. Of course, in the Budget there was the first allocation of money in terms of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission report, known as the Sax Committee report, of $28m to start a hospital program, a program to upgrade hospitals over the next 5 years. 
In the afternoon I saw a deputation concerned with the problems of homeless men and bashed up women and other personal situations whereby refuge housing is required as a matter of urgency. All social agencies in the centre of Cambelltown were involved and they are preparing hard facts and figures on the matter. Again officers of the State and local government agencies were agreed on the nature of the problem. A meeting under the auspices of the Aus.tralian Assistance Plan was held at Liverpool this afternoon so that the extent of the problem can be properly submitted to the Government. Again in the Budget there was an allocation of $2.2m for assistance to homeless persons. In fact, if honourable members will reflect back on the report on homeless men I think they will acknowledge it was one of the better reports that has come out of the social welfare field in recent .times. In the afternoon I was privileged to open the offices of the Department of Social Security in Campbelltown which is a regionalised and decentralised centre. Again, local, State and Australian Government agencies were present. There was little dissent between all the people there on the way to go about solving the problems of the area and the way to go about solving social security problems and the various needs in a society where there is very little slack and where people when they lose their income are in immediate need. People can be thrown into all sorts of situations. Again I was able to relate the amount of money that the Government is allocating to these needs and the real problems that these were causing for us. Some $3.441m in this Budget, or 21.1 per cent of the total Budget allocation, is involved. 
I took the opportunity to remind people that when they actually deal with public servants they find that a lot of this nonsense about anonymous bureaucrats and about kicking public servants because it is pretty easy to kick them, just does not apply. I also was able to tell them of the Woodhouse report on compensation and rehabilitation which will be gradually introduced in this Parliament with a considerable amount of debate, that the final report of the commission of inquiry into poverty will be delivered in 1 974-75, that the final report on national superannuation will be introduced and finalised in this year and also that the independent inquiry into the repatriation system will be finalised. 
The role of reports in this Parliament, the role of reports in the way that the policies of the Department of Social Security have been formulated over the past 20 months, has been one very good symptom of open government. Quite frankly, when I hear people in the community say that they are confused about some of the things we are doing I think it is about time they woke up to the fact that they should be prepared to do a little homework and work out what they believe. If we are to have more discussion I think that people should not simply believe every story that is written in the newspapers but that they should do a little homework and work out what they believe in themselves. If we talk about Parliament as an institution, if we talk about Parliament and the role of the member in it, I believe that the Press has been rather irresponsible in giving the public the idea that for the Government ever to accept an amendment or change its mind is a defeat or loss of face. Also too much is made of the fact that the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party has on about 3 occasions reversed decisions of the Executive or the Cabinet. 
If we are looking at this matter in a Budget context, as long as the overall strategy or trend of the Budget is not touched, I see nothing wrong with that at all. I accept there can be problems in selling this politically and that it does have weaknesses. But I think it is also a strength. I believe it is about time that all politicians accepted that society is a lot more mature than we think it is. They should accept that there must be a lot more debate in the Parliament and in the parliamentary parties themselves. Perhaps I can philosophise a little on this. I think that Parliament is a forum for debates. Debate implies that there is some recognition that there is a value in the exchange and clash of views. But neither in nor out of the Parliament, in the Press or elsewhere, have I noticed any great toleration of different points of view. The whole emphasis in my Party as much as elsewhere is on unity. It is what the Labor Party calls solidarity and what the Opposition Parties call loyalty. In fact, the opponents of the Labor Party are as conspicuous for their criticism of what they regard as the lack of unity in the Labor Government as for what they consider to be the iron discipline of Caucus. But the Opposition Parties are just as hung-up on matters of unity and solidarity. Their leader, the most important man in the Opposition, seems almost paranoiac about the subject and appears to treat a difference of opinion as a capital political offence. 
A country whose culture places this high a value on conformity cannot hope or expect to develop a true parliamentary tradition which is contingent on the encouragement or diversity of opinion and ideas. So much for the philosophising. 
Last night I attended the annual dinner of the Dapto Chamber of Commerce, which was addressed by  Mr Russell  Prowse, Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales, who made his point with outstanding clarity about the Australian economy and the inappropriateness of the Budget as a means of handling inflation. He convinced me, if I ever needed any convincing, that the next election will be fought on ideology- but more of this in a moment. On the way back to Canberra I travelled up the Macquarie Pass and found it was blocked as usual. Semi-trailers just simply cannot negotiate it if they make one error of judgment. The wheels of a trailer had simply slipped off the edge of the road and I was held up for 1  Vi  hours and the pass itself was not unblocked until 1 1 o'clock today. It was a simple accident. This is the Illawarra Highway- one of our great trunk roads. Every day thousands of tons of steel, cement, fertilisers, bulk fuels, heavy and light industrial goods travel over it. It joins on to the notorious Hume Highway. Yet the States and the Opposition have opposed our moves in quite recent times in respect of the identification and the needs of the national highways.  Sir Charles  Cutler shrugs his shoulders and says that this is a problem that the Federal Government is quite welcome to. Yet what he has said on other occasions has been: 'Give us the money without strings.' But this is an example of double think because this is exactly what has happened in the past and this is exactly the reason why the Illawarra Highway and the Hume Highway are in the condition they are in today. 
I should like to try to drag together the 4 events I have related to the House in the context of ideology and politics and the people. I have referred to 2 events- the opening of a health centre and the opening of a Social Security office on which there has been agreement largely between the levels of government. There are some areas of disagreement but by and large we have seen the way that the levels of government in society can work together to solve the problems. There is no reference to galloping socialism or centralism. It just simply was not an issue. If we look at the roads situation it will be seen that some people say we are guilty of galloping socialism yet what the Government is trying to do is to provide an infrastructure almost entirely for the benefit of free enterprise. It is the States themselves that impose socialistic legislation to restrain competition between road and rail. 
Getting back to ideology, I agreed with much of what  Mr Prowse  said last night. Perhaps the Budget does misjudge the need to curb inflation to the degree necessary- a degree, I would say, whereby the Government would have had to commit suicide by carrying out dramatically unpopular measures. But it also must be remembered that if we had accepted some of the Treasury advice the cure we would have attempted would have amounted to overcompensation to such an extent that the unemployment created would have made the current problem look small. Even with present levels and trends of unemployment, compiled with projected rates of inflation and interest rates, business uncertainty is rife, whether we like it or not. I do not blame the Treasury for poor advice because the basic problem with inflation, whatever the colour of the government- whether it be the conservative Government in Japan or the Heath Government in England which made a dash for free enterprise and had to bail out RollsRoyce in a liberal democratic society they are all in trouble because they cannot find politically acceptable cures or even palliatives. We do not have all the economic powers to control inflation in this country and there are good arguments to say why we should not have them. There are too many rigidities in our form of society that do not allow any downturn in expectations of rising standards of living. No wage ever drops in a business cycle and no entrepreneur ever wants diminishing sales. New wants can always be created. We may reach a plateau but it is the nature of our society to move on to more and more demands. There is a case at present perhaps for incentives for business by way of tax cuts and cuts in Government spending but these are just as much political as they are economic measures. 
The Budget was almost entirely a political document but the true nature of all budgets should be recognised. Budgets more and more are almost entirely political. If people think we can produce something out of the Budget that will cure inflation then I wish they would explain why it is that increased earnings in the private sector do not cause inflation. If people say that unhindered capital inflow will help us now, then I wish they could explain why in the past this was not in fact one of the causes of inflation. If people say at present we can cut personal taxes, for example, by $ 1,000m then I wish they could explain why this will not feed inflation. What I point out is that the traditional conservative answers to the problem kill just as much as cure unless they are accompanied by a lot of other directly political measures. More importantly with a conservative government in the past, spending on education, social welfare and the public infrastructure was inadequate and this was at a time when we were supposed to be able to afford to spend in such areas. These questions at present are all being surrounded by ideology. 
Inflation, I believe is fundamentally a political problem. People must be convinced that they cannot have an ever-increasing private standard of living at the same rate if they demand more and more services, if at the same time they wish to work less and if they think business can invest less. But where is the consensus for this realisation in the community today? Where is the responsibility on both sides of this House which would enable the realities of the situation we face to be clearly spelt out? We all shirk much of the responsibility by not spelling out these facts. Indeed, what is the role that the Opposition is playing in this Parliament? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  now has a new policy. It is supposed to be a bit better than the last one, the one with the phallic symbol cooked up for 18 May. It is better because it has a Utile bit of Labor policy in it. Care.fully reading through the last one one gathers that the Liberals if they were in government would wipe the Department of Urban and Regional Development, restore a few subsidies and throw aU welfare programs into reverse or hold except in those areas where there might be a few votes. In fact the Opposition has been nothing less than recalcitrant in its preference for the unshackled use of its members in the Senate to give effect to its opposition. Its effort to persuade the people of the merits of its policy and the demerits of ours has gone no further than total mobilisation of prejudice. No idea of giving any philosophy or blueprint for the cure of inflation or any other social problem is ever given. All we ever have is pie in the sky contradictions and sloganeering. I believe this might be aU right to perpetrate ideology but it is not particularly responsible. 
The Leader of the Opposition is now throwing out leads to see whether divine providence is going to tell him to deny Supply in the Senate to provoke an election before Christmas. I believe the New South Wales Liberal Party wants an election next April or May. We await aU these things with bated breath. In the meantime the Opposition relies on prejudice and the recitation of slogans, socialism or socialisation versus free enterprise. Conservative forces back this tirade without any rigour or attempt at definition. To that extent they too are not analysing the problems. They are simply acting politically. I can understand this but I do not think it is going to advance things very far. One writer recently sent me a speech or an essay on socialism or socialisation. When my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  asked for his definition he simply replied asking the honourable member for Eden-Monaro for his definition. 
Industry wants help and protection. Is this free enterprise? What the Government has done in many industries is to allow the market forces to operate more than they have operated in the past 20 years. If we are going rigorously to define socialism and free enterprise I think we could start by defining free enterprise in the following manner. If free enterprise were closely followed it would be quite reasonable for property speculation firms to slump when a property boom slumps. It follows that if stock exchanges slide then the Government should not intervene. It follows that the exchange rate should be determined by supply and demand of the Australian dollar dependent solely on the balance of payments. In fact it should not be set in favour of exporters but in terms of their competitive position in the international market. It assumes that wage rates should be set almost entirely by collective bargaining. It assumes that unfettered competition between enterprises having equal opportunity should only require an effective Trade Practices Act and not Government interference. It assumes that the size of any manufacturing industry should not be dependent upon State considerations or any factor other than the ability to gain what market share it may. The truth is that no one really wants this sort of definition of free enterprise in Australia. Perhaps we are all nearly socialist now. Government intervention in agriculture and secondary industries has a long history in Australia and will always be there. An amount of Government investment has always occurred in Australia in such matters as transport which goes back to the railways in the 1860s and beyond. What I am simply saying is that if there is to be a debate and if it is not to be entirely without ideology and based on the slogans that are being bandied around the country today, I think we should have some honest, responsible analysis. Otherwise again we will not advance the solution of any of the problems we face. Let us analyse some of the issues themselves. I am rather alarmed to find some Liberal members of the New South Wales 
Parliament in my electorate saying that the Australian Government is giving so much money to education at present that they can happily get stuck into the chalkies because everyone has had education as an issue. Perhaps that is an accurate political reading of the situation, but it ignores the issue itself. Let us consider another current topic, the paintings 'Blue Poles' and 'Woman V. Perhaps this is a good one to tout around the country and a good one to embarrass the Government with, but I would point out that when some group can spend $4m sailing off the coast of the United States of America trying to win a cup this seems to be thought to be a good thing, but when the Government sets up the most intelligent group of people it can to buy works of art for the benefit and the appreciation of future generations, this is thought to be a terribly bad thing because people do not exactly understand what they are buying. I do not understand what they are buying, but I will defer to the suggestion that there are some things on which society must place a high value. I think that the empty sloganeering and the failure to define where we are going mean that this Parliament is not honestly analysing the issues we face today, and I think that that applies to both sides of the House. 
-I rise to defend the appointment of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell to the Grants Commission. I also rise to partially defend  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell himself. I thought it was rather incredible a few nights ago- on 2 October- to hear the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  criticise that appointment. I did not expect that one would have to defend an appointment of this kind. On that date the honourable member for Lilley said: 
The new appointment- probably to the most complex economic body in Australia- is of a New South Wales judge. 
I emphasise the words 'a New South Wales judge '. He went on to say: 
His name I understand is Else-Mitchell- a nicely hyphenated name. Judge Else-Mitchell has been appointed as Chairman of the Commission- as Chairman of a body for which he has had no training. He has exhibited no knowledge as to the principles of operation of this body. His appointment is in stark contrast to other appointments which have been made to the Commission during the last 8 or 9 years. I believe that his appointment has been a simple mistake. 
So he went on. I will accept that the honourable member for Lilley was commenting in a genuine fashion and that he was not trying to assassinate the character of this man. I will also accept that the honourable member for Lilley feels that the Grants Commission's reports are complex economic documents. But if one examines the Grants Commission's reports I think one will find that they are not so much economic documents as documents involving a lot of consideration and a lot of arithmetic rather than economic calculations. 
The honourable member for Lilley said that  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is 'a New South Wales judge'. I think it needs to be said that  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is one of the most eminent judges in this land. He was a judge at 43 years of age. He was a university medallist. If one reads into some of his background one will find that he has given outstanding service to the law and the community. Before his appointment to the Supreme Court of New South Wales in 1958 he had had an extensive appellate practice before the High Court of Australia and the Privy Council, representing the Australian Government and various State governments in many important constitutional cases, including the uniform tax case in 1957. He was formerly a lecturer in Australian constitutional law at the University of Sydney.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is the author and editor of many legal works, including a volume of essays on the Australian Constitution. In 1965, 1966 and 1967 he was the  Chairman  of the Royal Commission on Local Government Finance established by the New South Wales Government, and is presently  chairman  of the Commission of Inquiry into Land Tenure which presented its first report to the Australian Government late last year. 
Apart from holding a wide range of public positions, including presidency of the Council of the Library of New South Wales, membership of the Archives Authority and the Library Board in New South Wales and  Deputy  Chancellor of Macquarie University,  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell is also  President  of the Royal Australian Historical Society and Vice-Chairman of St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney. He is also a member of the Committee of the Centre for Federal-State Financial Relations at the Australian National University. That is the experience of a man who is supposed to have no particular skill for this body. The Grants Commission is a quasi-judicial body. As I have said, it is not purely an economic body.  Sir Leslie  Melville was an eminent economist and he served that Commission well. The honourable member for Lilley also said that he thinks that, as a result of the appointment of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell Queensland, as a claimant State to the Grants Commission, is going to suffer. I think that is absolute nonsense. If one examines the reports with which  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell has been particularly associated- the one on land tenure which was tabled in this House in November 1973 and the one of the royal commission into local government ratingand if one takes into account his other skills and appointments as well as his position on the Federal-State financial relations body, and if one also takes into account that the Grants Commission has had its charter amplified considerably by the Labor Government to incorporate the making of topping-up grants to local government, I think one must come to the conclusion that his appointment is eminently suitable. I for one will not tolerate any criticism of his appointment. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the House. In light of the fact that the Australian Parliament is one of the few major national parliaments whose procedures have not been thoroughly reviewed for over 20 years and having regard to the Government's decision to seek advice from the Royal Commission into the Public Service on parliamentary scrutiny and control of the Administration, I ask the Minister whether he will consider establishig a special committee of this House with substantial back bench representation to consider and report on methods of improving consideration of legislation and oversight of government activity by this House? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that there are no adequate statistics to allow proper forecasting of the trends of imports into Australia? Does this allow unnecessary alarm to occur in the community about the effects of imports? Will the Prime Minister take action to see that a proper system of import forecasting is instituted? 
The table indicates that in the cereals industry there are messages coming from the market place and that payments to wheat growers have speeded up in recent years. Is it always to be the Government's job to encourage production for widely fluctuating world markets and then for it to step in and save the industry when markets collapse? If this is always to be the position we will have to re-think all the policies. 

<graphic href="091131197410234_75_2.jpg"></graphic>

Or is it the job of the Government to try to equalise opportunity and take out the ups and downs in income and provide basic levels of social welfare for farmers along with every other person in the community? If the decided philosophy is for the Government always to bail industries out of trouble once they get into it- in the agricultural sector this is roughly the attitude of all governments because they cannot and do not look 

<graphic href="091131197410234_75_2.jpg"></graphic>

ahead enough- then it is logical for a government to decide production targets and set controls. Controls in plant and animal industries are nearly impossible to supervise due to a multitude of biological and physical factors, so the task of government is to find a balance of carrot and stick, or subsidy and restriction, in the light of the best information at its disposal and in keeping with overall national goals. 
Honourable members on both sides of this House are concerned by the current problems of the beef industry. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  wants a royal commission into the industry after the Parliamentary Prices Committee and a Cabinet committee examined the industry in detail last year. A royal commission would take over a year to go over the same evidence. Contrary to the honourable member's statement that the Government is 'unashamedly looking on at the industry'- a statement helpfully repeated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission yesterday- the Government has proposals under active consideration. The people seen by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  yesterday were seen by the Government and government agencies only a few weeks back. Carry-on credit proposals are now being examined, but again we must accept that they are no real overall cure. To get a policy of credit sophisticated enough to help will be quite a task. 
It could be achieved but a lot of thought needs to be given to it. I would anticipate that solutions offered by honourable members opposite would not provide an instant cure any more than anything that anyone else has come up with. We need to think back to last year when evidence was given to the Prices Committee that increased production would solve the domestic meat price problem and that no Government interference was wanted. That is no longer even a joke because the situation has become so serious. But even today the  chairman  of the Australian Meat Board is confident of the future. As no one can foresee the future, the present position may change. I think this is another fundamental of primary production and markets. Any market situation can go up or down quickly, and there is always a need never to panic. The industry has asked for devaluation. This we did from overall economic considerations. The industry has asked for negotiations at the highest level on a government to government basis. These have been going on for some 6 months now. Members of the Department of Overseas Trade have gone to Japan and Europe. The Minister for Overseas 
Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  recently had negotiations in Japan, and over a week ago Australia initiated in Washington a conference of exporters and importers which has agreed to meet again to try to come to some form of agreement. 
Industry organisations know that simple industry pressure will not solve their problems. For the first time many producers are becoming aware of the world-wide perspective of commodity trading and the way agricultural trade policies in industrialised countries, through internal political pressures or as a result of external factors such as the price of oil, distort the production and distribution of food in an optimum fashion. Our comparative advantage cannot be maximised in such a world situation. It is the understanding of the world wide perspective and commodity markets that I think is essential if we are to put all our energies into the solution of the beef problem instead of sidetracking ourselves on to the reiteration of past policies. 
The situation is potentially very dangerous. There are 2.7 million cattle on the hoof that should have been sold. The United States is taking what exports it can and there is still an export trade giving some outlet to our production. But no one knows what the bottom of the market is. This seems to be similar language to that used in 1970 in respect of wool. The beef that could be obtained from 2.7 million cattle is almost a year's production. If the weather suddenly turns dry we will not have the capacity to kill, cool, freeze and store what would have to be turned off. The Government may be caught in the middle as prices to growers tumble even further with retail prices high. Although I do not think breeding herds would be sacrificed, farmers would not get any cash flow and assistance would have to be made directly on welfare grounds unless in the meantime some form of credit can be instituted. 
Progress reported. 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  reminds me of a dog I used to go rabbiting with. He could point really well but he could never catch anything. When the honourable member was pointing to all the problems we have in the economy today he reminded me of the situation in 1961 when the Government of the day introduced a lot of monetary pressures of the same sort as this Government is indulging in. But the difference between the Government in 1961 and the present Government is, of course, that the present Government is moving to assist local government for the first time in this country; it is moving to assist people to meet their home interest charges; it is moving in new and imaginative ways to assist people who are unemployed; it is more concerned with the people who get involved with some of the ways in which governments attack the problems of inflation or any other economic problem. I sympathise with the sort of people about whom the honourable member talked today. He represents exactly the same sort of people whom I represent in my electorate. However, I did not rise to speak on this matter. 
As honourable members will be aware, I have been circulating material for a few weeks now on behalf of a group in Canberra with respect to trials of students and citizens in Indonesia. I am circulating this mainly for honourable member's attention so they may learn something of the events in that country today. I think the trials are of direct interest because they indicate the political and social condition of Indonesia. They indicate the tensions; they indicate the problems. At present there is evidence of suppression of news in some of the journals coming from Indonesia. For example, 'Tempo ', the Indonesian version of 'Time', has made no reference to the trials for a few weeks now. The parliamentary group of Amnesty International has expressed its concern about political prisoners in Indonesia, but it is not my purpose to expand on that group's activities here. 
The main reason I have been circulating material is that I believe we need to know a lot more about Indonesia itself. I believe it is an absurd situation that we as members and we as Australians know every sordid detail of the Watergate affair and yet we know little of 123 million people living very close to our shores. To put it quite bluntly Press coverage of events in that country is inadequate. To my mind, it is even inadequate on Japan, China and other nations in our region, if we want to get some sort of balance and find out where our interests lie. 
I am not being critical of the Press. It is probably quite obvious that stories about these areas do not sell. But as a politician I find it embarrassing to be so informed about other parts of the world of less direct concern to Australia's interests. We have heard the slogans that Australia is part of Asia and that Indonesia is part of our region, but these are rather meaningless truisms unless our own people are more aware of what is happening in our region. I might add that news about Australia in Indonesian newspapers is also lacking. 
What can we do about the paucity of news from Indonesia? I think that perhaps the Australian Government could subsidise the posting of one or several Australian journalists in Djakarta. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has a man there,  Mr Scully,  but at present to my knowledge no other Australian journalist is posted in Indonesia on a permanent basis by an Australian newspaper. One of the major Australian chains of newspapers tried to station a man there several years ago but decided that it was not worth it. The newspaper argument is that Indonesian news stories are not really in demand in Australia. News from North America and Europe is what people want to read. 
But there is some sort of circular argument here. People naturally want to read about, for example, Watergate because they have already heard a good deal about American politics in general and Watergate in particular. Naturally a story about, for example, General Sumitro, who was recently very powerful in Indonesia but now appears to have been deposed, is not of interest to Australians because they know nothing about the subject. Just as  Mr Clark  writes regularly for the 'Australian' from Tokyo, Australia needs at least one good journalist writing regularly from Indonesia. It may be that the Government should subsidise him. Considering that we spend $20m a year on aid to Indonesia, perhaps a subsidy of $15,000 to provide a better news service would be well worth it. 
Remarkably few politicians move between Australia and Indonesia. Australian politicians need to visit Indonesia more and move outside of Djakarta. Perhaps we could increase the overseas travel allowance for ordinary members of Parliament travelling in the South East Asian area. Already Australia has some sort of a name for Indonesian studies in two fields in the social sciences- in political science at Monash University and in economics at the Australian National University. Nevertheless, there is a great scope for further exchange at the educational level and it may even be that in the long run this is the best way that Australia can help Indonesia develop. The Australian Government has given some support to academic exchanges already, some of which have been very successful indeed, if only on a very small level, and further activity in this area might be supported. Perhaps the Australian Development Assistance Agency should also be encouraged to develop educational exchanges. 
Indonesia is having to face up to problems of making genuine improvement in the welfare of the vast island country's huge and fast growing population- some 123 million people. In January long-standing resentments, particularly over the undue influence of foreign capitalists and local Chinese entrepreneurs, over alleged corruption in the Army-run government, over conspicuous consumption and privilege among the affluent few, and over the lack of education and opportunity for the many, erupted in largescale riots in Djakarta. Thousands of young people, chiefly high school students and unemployed high school graduates, but also some militant university leaders, wrecked or burned more than 100 buildings and 800 vehicles. The latter were mainly Japanese made, since the trigger for the protest was an official visit by Premier Tanaka of Japan, the country whose businessmen have been the most visible and the most resented foreign operators in Indonesia. Before things quieted down security forces were called out, 1 1 people were killed and more than 100 were injured. A curfew was imposed and the University of Indonesia was temporarily closed. We have to realise one thing about Indonesia when we talk about the students and the young people; over half the country's population is under 19 years of age and the majority of unemployed and under employed together make up for about half of the nation's working population of some 45 million people. So the problems in Indonesia are indeed immense. 
I should like to stress the problems rather than make value judgments, and I point out to honourable members some of the facts regarding political prisoners. It is clear from what I have just briefly said that the economic-social-political strains in Indonesia are far greater than in Australia and in fact the whole society is a very different one. But we should be very careful about making value judgments. However, at the same time the Indonesian Government should realise that there are many Australians who are unhappy about the repressive measures that the Indonesian Government uses from time to time. While it is up to the Indonesian Government ultimately to make decisions about internal policy, the Indonesian Government should be aware that the Australian Government cannot ignore pressure groups within Australia. There have been significant pressures from quite a wide variety of people- trade unions, academics, students, lawyers, civil liberties groups, aid groups, for example- and these have all been making an impression on the Australian Government to protest to the Indonesian Government over the continued detention without trial of people charged with involvement in the 1965 attempted coup and the recent trials of intellectuals who were arrested after the January riots in Djakarta to which I have just referred. 
There are three classifications of prisoners in Indonesia. Class A prisoners are those against whom there is definite proof; class B prisoners are those who were probably involved but against whom there is no definite proof, and class C prisoners are suspects where often it is alleged that there is no evidence at all. Many people have been awaiting trial now for 9 years and at the rate prisoners are being tried for involvement in the 1965 coup they will not be tried until the end to this century. So we have a very serious situation. 
The news of recent tightening up of security in Indonesia is also disturbing. For example, gatherings of university students are now controlled and university staff have been warned not to make statements to the Press until such statements are approved by the university rectors. Further, the informal order has recently gone out that all government institutions, and this would include banks, universities, semi-governmental organisations such as electricity companies, water boards, railways, etc, must dismiss people who have not been completely cleared of involvement in the 1965 attempted coup. This means that people who are at all suspect, for whatever trivial reason, of any kind of link are in danger of being dismissed. In a country like Indonesia, where unemployment is very high, dismissal is tantamount to a sentence of poverty. 
I think we have to try to find out why it is taking so long to try the class A prisoners and why class B prisoners are not released if there is not enough evidence to bring them to trial. Why is it taking so long to try the intellectuals who were arrested last January after Tanaka's visit? For all these reasons, I am circulating material to honourable members and I hope that it does provoke more interest in that country, which is vital to our interests. (Quorum formed) 
-Firstly I would like to make the point that debate on the estimates now before us is not strictly limited and therefore I would like to take this opportunity of congratulating the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  for the way in which he has administered his Department and the estimates that are before us. The estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy amount to $44m this year compared to $46m last year. Part of this reduction has been a reduction of $4m in oil search which has been set at $6m. But for the most part allocations made under the Division of National Mapping, the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission have shown only minor increases. I think that this reflects a fair amount of work on the administration of the Department and for that alone I think the Minister should be congratulated notwithstanding all the other things that he is achieving in his portfolio. 
It is symptomatic of the state of debate in this chamber and the community at large that there has been little intelligent analysis of the Fitzgerald report on the contribution of the minerals industry to the welfare of Australians. As honourable members know this report was completed prior to the recent election and the Opposition seemed to think that this was a political document. It took up the report as a political document and did not seem to bother to do any analysis of the figures or facts contained in it. Regrettably some members of the mining industry have used it to impute attitudes to the writer. For example, there were allegations that the companies were being criticised in the report. I think it is a very sad thing that there has been no full scale debate on the Fitzgerald report. 
The same lack of analysis has been present in the assertions of the Opposition in various debates on matters of public importance that have taken place in the last few weeks. I think that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  sank to new lows in making personal attacks on the Minister in which he made some sneering remarks about 'second rate czars'. I do not know what this contributed to the debate. The Australian Country Party has been particularly overtly political and directly irresponsible on this matter. The Opposition has tried to reflect a consensus view that the Government is doing too much too soon in a few areas. Yet at a time when we have a Minister working quietly in an extremely complex and vital area with a new Department and with key Acts under challenge in the High Court, we have bleats from the Opposition because there is no instant policy. 
This is not the only sort of contradiction we are having by way of a debate on minerals and energy in this chamber. Members of the Country 
Party have made allegations of improper diplomatic conduct with the re-negotiating of iron ore and coal contracts with the Japanese. There has not been one word of proof- just snide implications. Yet the same Country Party members now call for the Government to screw Prime Minister Tanaka's arm by threatening to withhold uranium unless beef contracts are granted to us. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  tried to do this in respect of wool when he was the Minister for Primary Industry and I think he realised then as he realises now and as this Government also realises, that the Japanese are businessmen and that they respect people who know the facts. They respect business people but they do not respect those who wail. Australia should be more concerned with an overall analysis of the oil crisis- or in popular jargon, with the recycling of petro-dollars. Australia should be more concerned with our relationships with Japan in terms of the economic consequences of the oil crisis than attempting to try some form of blackmail. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  this afternoon describe this move as blackmail. It seems to me to be the old Country Party trick of making moises about wanting reduced rail freights for farmers in the morning and  grilling  in the afternoon because the railways do not pay their way. 
My electorate is a coal mining electorate and I would like to put the record straight on some of the matters that have been raised. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is reported as saying at a meeting in Melbourne that we should not leave our minerals in the ground. That is, he is trying to say that this is the Government's total attitude to minerals because we are not breaking our necks to give away uranium, which is our most valuable strategic resourse to any bidder. How stupid can you get! It is true that we have had problems with uranium, but a policy has been formulated. We have had problems with Aboriginal land rights and there are now environmental considerations that have been taken into account over quite a period. 
For most of the mining industry the year that has ended has been the most profitable on record. The action of the Minister for Minerals and Energy has resulted in profit per ton doubling for some coal exports from Queensland, probably all of them, and for most iron ore contracts. The outlook has never been brighter in the coal industry. The main problem is getting men to mine, not that we are leaving the coal in the ground. Five new mines will be opened in my electorate in the next 2 years, and the labour requirement will be for over 2,000 people. There are over 300 job vacancies in my electorate at present in the coal mining industry. So much for saying that the Government wants to leave Australia's minerals in the ground. 
I would like briefly to put the record straight on the Fitzgerald report and try to sum it up. First, there was no implicit criticism in the report of companies, and, secondly, there was no implicit criticism of multinationals. It simply stated that business acts within a framework set by the national Government; that business operates to maximise profits within that framework. Minerals are in a special situation inasmuch as in the latter 1960s and 1970s the industry had shown special characteristics relating to the dynamics of growth in Australia. Capital inflow had been massive. Strain had been placed on the economy in terms of diversion of resources. Quite simply, the multinationals were the companies which in that time could amass the funds needed. 
With the Government determined to identify national interest in this whole area it was necessary to examine the real contribution to the welfare of Australia- hence the Fitzgerald report. It was not a put up job. The report made a few simple points with great clarity. The figures themselves have not been refuted. A mythology fed by the dynamic developer syndrome emerged and we had a situation in which States were competing to attract industry without scrutiny. This developed to the stage where everyone thought that this industry should not be subject to any attention or scrutiny at all. 
What was systematically shown by the Fitzgerald report was, first, that the concessions to enable rapid growth to take place were far greater than could reasonably be expected to be backed by the general taxpayer or could be recommended on a permanent basis to a national Government. The second point that it made was that more than half the minerals industry was and is overseas owned. Therefore half of these tax concessions were being paid to the same companies, and therefore it could be expected that more than half of the profits would go overseas. There is no overt criticism of the multinationals but a simple recitation of the facts. The third point it made was that State governments had been giving rights to vast mineral deposits, some of which had resource lives of up to 150 years, to the same companies for quite minimal royalties. They were virtually gifts to nonnational interests. The fourth point was that three of the main minerals involved, namely iron ore, coal and bauxite, were the most important and dynamic to the industrial world. 
This is the sort of picture that the Fitzgerald report brought into the daylight. Quite clearly we were underselling our products. Again I say that the critics have to show that the Australian Government has in any way breached good diplomatic behaviour. We were underselling due to the weakness of our own trading system in Australia that the past Government had allowed ourselves to be placed in, whereby firm fought firm and State fought State. As secretary of the Government Members Resources Committee, I have been heavily lobbied over the last few weeks by members of the uranium industry. I understand their point of view. I understand that a lot more information has to be given to them. I understand also that some of the information they have at present does not allow them to make forward business decisions. But, as I say, until the Minister gets his submission through Cabinet and we have a policy defined in clearer detail it is rather illusory for them to think that the Resources Committee can spell out every detail. What they need to realise overall is that the development of a minerals policy needs national considerations to be paramount. Control or policy over minerals and energy resources is fundamentally a political question, and it always has been. Policy cannot be developed, as proposed by the Opposition, entirely on demands of the firms involved in exploration, leasing and production. 
The United States of America has in the past pursued a resources diplomacy which enabled it to gain control of up to 60 per cent of the world's known resources in some areas. Yet it now tells the member countries of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries that they should act with more regard to the consequences. This is OK, but of course there are two sides to the story as far as the Arab nations are concerned. On the one hand they see from the amount the consuming countries have been levying by way of taxation that there was a great amount of consumer surplus in the deals that the consuming companies were negotiating. On the other hand, any changes would have rather abrupt consequences. I think we would be well advised to look more closely at the world wide ramifications of our policies and take a lot more time in some of the policy areas in which we are engaging because these are the most important decisions that any country in the world can make today. Minerals and energy are politics. They are politics on a far larger scale than is envisaged by the Opposition. 
They are politics involving the national interest and not simply those of individual companies. 

 - Mr Speaker, I direct my question 
-Firstly, I can understand why the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  has to make a few personal explanations. I would assume that he has to make quite a few to his colleagues. He said that he does not get enough time to speak on defence in this chamber. Most of his speech today was quoted directly from a speech that he gave at the Returned Services League Congress on 29 October. It would appear that he either read a speech on the estimates at the congress or that he made a speech here with the RSL in mind. This seems to me to be a rather shabby tactic if he is saying that he is not getting enough time to speak on defence in this chamber and then uses the opportunity he gets to speak to quote from speeches he has already given. In other words he did not prepare for the Estimates debates in this chamber. 
We have also learned today that the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  can read. He spent most of his speech reading from a document- an Australian document he called it. He did not even name it. We have also heard from the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  who keeps on interjecting, that the main threat to Australia is from Queensland. He did not define whether the threat is from the Government of Queensland. One can only assume that it might be some Australian Country Party organisation that he has in mind. 
I should like to take this opportunity to point out that there is quite a confused picture emanating from the Opposition with regard to defence. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on 'Monday Conference' definitely said that the Opposition would cut spending across the board by 8 per cent. On 24 October the honourable member for Barker had this to say: 
None of this in any way contradicts the assertion made in our defence policy statement that there would have been no substantial increase in defence spending in the next two or three years. This is a legacy of the situation created by Labor. 
The sort of legacy we inherited was exactly the same. There had been so many non-decisions made in the defence buying area. 
The only thing we cancelled was the DDL because we decided to save a lot more money by getting a patrol frigate which carried exactly the same armament and which will cost virtually half as much. A questioner on 'Monday Conference' detailed the areas- he put it very clearly- where spending overall could not be cut, such as interest on debt charges and payments to the States. The Opposition joins the Premiers when they come forward wanting more money for the States so I do not think it would cut expenditure in that area. So just where would the Opposition cut spending if it is not to be in the defence area? The Opposition's own shadow Treasurer said he would cut it 8 per cent across the board. The simple fact, if the Opposition looks at some of its other contradictory statements, is that it means that some areas will be cut a lot more than 8 per cent across the board. I am not so sure that the Opposition does not intend to cut expenditure on defence. 
The reason that I asked a question of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  the other day was that I was rather alarmed that no qualification was given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I am glad if the honourable member for Barker has cleared up the allegation made by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  but I am not so sure he has cleared it up. I seem to recall that during the last election campaign the honourable member for Barker said that the Opposition might spend an extra $200m in this year's Budget. This, of course, is the amount we have nearly matched. There are lots of other matters that one could go on about. The confusing statements that seem to be coming out today and in the last few months lead me to believe that the Opposition is mainly using distortion and a wrong interpretation of facts. 
Perhaps the most important one of these is the constant distortion of the concept of the strategic bases and the gross misstatement of the meaning of the 10 to 15-year strategic situation assessment. This is constantly done to confuse the issue while claiming that the Opposition is supposedly developing defence policy. The strategic assessment said- it must be said over and over againthat there is no foreseeable threat to the continent of Australia for the next 10 or 15 years. It is a meaningful statement inasmuch as it is logical but it is meaningless in that it says nothing about the direct strategic situation in 10 or 15 years. Any situation may arise within 3 months in some scenarios. A situation may arise within 1, 2 or in any of the 10 to 15 years. But on the premises of the strategic bases it remains a valid document. 
I think the Liberals have used a smokescreen of distortion to save face because of the undeniable fact that they have no policy of their own. They have been forced, in fact, to agree with the Government policy after their previous disastrous policies were overwhelmingly rejected by the people in 1972. They have been unable to come up, for example, with any alternative from their previous failures of Vietnam, conscription, the Fl 1 1 and other ill-conceived prestige equipment purchases. Unable to find any alternatives they have adopted the Government's policies as slowly as the necessity to save their reputation will allow. I think all the work done by the Minister for Defence and the Department of Defence on the many studies will show some concrete results. 
I could quote some of the other statements of the honourable member for Barker. In his statement of 24 October he said that we are now devoting a lot of our money to paying and maintaining non-specialist private soldiers. That is simply quite wrong. He asked why are we maintaining a relaxed attitude to the resignation of large numbers of officers of the rank of major and above. This is simply wrong. We have expressed our concern, but we all know why these resignations have occurred. They are mainly to do with the financial situation of the officers concerned. As a matter of fact, in the September quarter the manpower figures rose by a record amount. The honourable member for Barker queried why HMAS 'Sydney', our only strategic sea transport, is to be pensioned off in the absence of a decision about its replacement. The simple fact is that the life of the 'Sydney' was to expire this year because the previous Government had not made any plans for a refit. Even with a refit it would have lasted only 2 years. The honourable member also queried, in relation to the defence of continental Australia, why there is not more urgency about the replacement of the Neptunes and why the decision was made to replace them with even less aircraft than at present. The aircraft we are thinking of replacing them with are a lot more capable than the Neptunes. I do not see long range maritime patrol aircraft as the answer to defending Australia. 
I could go on through the statement the honourable member for Barker made. My main concern- I note that he raised this matter today- is the declining share of capital expenditure in the Budget allocation. I feel that here I must be a bit critical of the Government. If the view of the Government is that a little money can always be chopped off the top of an allocation when we are working out our Budget, in the defence area I think it is a very wrong atitude. If, as is alleged, some $30m was chopped off this year's estimate, then the 5-year program of buying becomes that much harder to run. Manpower is taking more and more. I am quite sure in my own mind that the Opposition would not be opposed to the soldiers and other servicemen getting a fair pay. But if an amount of money in the defence estimates is just taken off, this comes directly from the capital expenditure appropriation and with a 5-year rolling program it makes it very difficult indeed. 
This year $92m is proposed for capital. It will be phased into the 5-year rolling program. If $30m were added every year for 5 years, at the end of that time we would have $755m. If we had the same amount deducted each year we would have quite an amount less. So if we are to have a realistic 5-year rolling program I think we need to look forward to adding a share each year. This is more realistic, and we should consider the lead time factor. Other nations are cutting back. I think they are doing it at their peril. For example, I believe that Canada now has armed forces of only 50,000 people. It is under the umbrella of the United States but it could reach a point of no return if it ever gets to the stage where all its resources are in manpower. 
Just briefly I should like to mention some of the developments within my own electorate. A contract has now been let to Australian industry for the installation of a $2.5m simulator for the Navy's new Sea King helicopters. It will be installed by mid-December 1975, with site acceptance in January 1976. This will be additional to the S2E Tracker simulator already at Nowra which will continue to operate there. The Sea King simulator represents a significant advance in training procedures, being more economical and allowing the achievement of greater precision in tactical training. It gives the instructor the ability to alter the situation and throw in new tasks to test aircrew efficiency in a way which would never be possible in operational training. Modern simulators realistically duplicate the flight characteristics of the aircraft, including its motion, and therefore represent a very realistic flight training aid which does not have the danger and costs associated with aircraft training. People could speculate and say that the helicopters are likely to outlast HMAS 'Melbourne' by a considerable time. Depending on the result of the hull survey, HMAS 'Melbourne' could be retired any time after 1980. 1 have very definite ideas about naval air power. I point out that helicopters themselves will be in service into the 1990s and they should continue. Even though the naval air power study- I have not seen it- was not too optimistic about the future of conventional modern aircraft carriers in Australia there are many alternatives and these are beingexamined. I would hazard a guess that even the naval air power study has suggested that seaborne platforms for logistic roles and for other roles involving helicopters are very much things that the Navy should continue to have and will continue to have. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that on Saturday, 21 September 1974. all four Sydney television channels televised live the Rugby League football grand final from the Sydney Cricket Ground between Canterbury/Bankstown and Eastern Suburbs from 2.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., thus depriving viewers of a choice of program during that period? 
If so, will the Minister state how this occurred, and will he take the necessary action to ensure that viewers retain a choice of programs at all times and not be subjected to a complete monopoly of any one event, sporting or otherwise, excepting, of course, one of national importance or emergency? 
-Could the Minister for Minerals and Energy comment on the Australian Government's recent negotiations and discussions with the Japanese Government concerning uranium and beef? Is it a fact that the Australian Government approached the negotiations and discussions on a proper professional and businesslike basis and without thought of blackmail as is being advocated by members opposite? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether any State Commissioners for Housing implement criteria for the payment of a greater or economic rent for tenants of Commission houses when the income of the household passes a particular point. 
What is the current stock of public housing in each State. 
) How many houses are being paid off by tenants in each State. 
How many families or applicants are on the waiting list for public housing in each State at present. 
-First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that there is no opposition from honourable members opposite to this measure. All they want is just a little bit more. I would guess that the attitude of the Government on this matter is that with restricted funds of course we have to give first priority to those with the most need. I am sure we are all very interested in the contribution of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I am very appreciative of the fact that before I became a member of this Parliament the honourable member for Lyne maintained an association with dairying people in my electorate, and I trust that he continues to maintain this association. The people in Macarthur who are involved in dairying form the largest primary industry in my electorate. I am very appreciative of the hospitability they extend to me. As a matter of fact, at the last election I doubled my vote at one of their polling booths. For years I had been getting only 2 votes out of eighty-seven, and at the last election I got four. 
The Bill indicates the Labor Government 's approach to an industry with long term problems. They are not problems that have been caused simply by the Labor Government. They are problems that have been around for a very long time. Dairy industry prospects locally and on the export market have been long recognised, even prior to the mid-1960s. Farmers have been leaving the dairying industry at a rapid rate in common with farmers in other industries. The industry with which I was associated before entering Parliament was losing farmers at the rate of about 1,000 a year over quite a period of the mid-60s and yet production was still rising. 
Not enough attention has been given to the long term problems of the dairy industry. This was especially so until the introduction of the original dairy farm reconstruction scheme in relation to which the co-operation of the States has been excellent. The Australian Government is finding no difficulty in gaining the co-operation of the States. We do not hear talk about centralism or about galloping socialism. This is an example of where the Australian Government and the State . governments can work well together in solving an industry problem. Quite clearly the present legislation builds on the previous legislation. I point out that also it extends and eclipses the marginal concept which was inherent in the previous legislation. It does this by introducing a concept which I suppose is best described as giving more attention to the uneconomic aspects of the dairying industry. The previous scheme helped over 600 farmers over a period of 4 years. At the time it was very good. But this Government has seen that not only is it desirable to build on existing legislation but also that in recognising a different situation the Government has needed to come up with wider provisions. That is what this Bill has done. 
I suppose that one could say the broad aim is to consolidate at a reasonable income level those farmers in the industry who can certainly be consolidated and to assist those non-viable fellows in the industry in the long term to get out and to establish themselves in other industries. To build on the previous legislation we need to have continued State co-operation. I think it is wise to build on the existing legislation because the farmers understand it and because the procedures have been well established. Of interest to farmers in my electorate is the aspect of widening which will include liquid milk, the provisions allowing stock build-up and of carry-on finance. Under the suppliers change-over provisions in the cream supply legislation, suppliers will be subject to a viability test. They can get refrigeration vats and therefore make themselves eligible for higher prices and get the benefits of the price for solid non-fat. This also is of particular interest to some people in my electorate. I am quite sure that it is of particular interest to people right up the New South Wales coast. I reiterate briefly what the program comprises. As we all know, it is producer oriented. It is to be for another 2 years, during which time we hope to have for the dairying industry further measures of assistance which will be more constructive in terms of the Industry Assistance Commission's recommendations. At present it is processing various submissions. A part of the Bill deals with interestfree loans. These are available to owners of dairy farms to assist in the change-over to refrigerated bulk milk supplies. The purpose of the loans include the purchase and installation of refrigerated vats, necessary modifications to dairy and power supply and the construction of on-farm access roads. The loans are retrospective to 23 July 1973, which was the date on which the Government announced the phase-out of the dairy bounty. The State administering authority takes over the balance of the outstanding loans and reimburses interest payments. The loans are subject to State authorities being satisfied that the applicant has a reasonable prospect of long term viability with such assistance. 
I turn now to loans to dairy factories. These loans are available where alterations to premises are required or where plant and equipment has to be purchased to provide facilities for suppliers to change over to refrigerated bulk milk supply. These loans are generally limited to receival facilities but in special circumstances- for example, King Island- these may be extended to processing equipment. The loans are conditional on finance not being readily available on reasonable terms from normal commercial sources. There are a lot of other measures too. They include a comprehensive range of assistance to enable uneconomic dairy farms to be upgraded to viable, self-sustaining units. This measure provides for re-allocation assistance to displaced dairy farmers and dairy factory workers. In relation to this a sum of $3,000 is talked about as an extra means of assisting people who have decided to leave the industry, who have some equity in their farms and who already have some funds as the result of their decision. 
Special measures in this Bill relate to liquid milk suppliers. They include measures of assistance for direct conveyancing in the amalgamation of land. There are measures which will assist the write-off of redundant assets on the home property. This measure was previously confined to acquired property. There is assistance to develop uneconomic dairy farms into economic units, other than by whole farm build-up. An example is by paddock purchases or by finance for clearing land, improving pastures or water supply. There is also provision for diversification of dairy land, where appropriate, by loans for land purchase, property development, livestock and equipment, and by grants for the write-off of redundant dairy bails and plant. There is provision of finance for build-up procedures to develop more readily the full potential of the enlarged property; that is loans for property development, purchase of livestock and equipment. There is also assistance for displaced dairy factory workers. This is being covered by structural adjustment measures which will apply to factory workers generally. 
As the honourable member for Lyne has said, we all welcome these measures. The Bill mentions some $43m. This amount includes the $15m which was spent of the $25m which was allocated by the previous Government for the marginal dairy farm reconstruction scheme. For technical reasons the $28m which this Government is now allocating to the dairy adjustment area is also included in this Bill. Hence we have a situation where $28m will be allocated for the next 2 years whereas in the last 4 years $ 1 5 m was spent. So this is almost double the amount of funds which were made available to the dairy industry. As well we are widening the provisions for it. I have spoken of the long term problems of the dairying industry and of the Australian people's awareness of the problems over a long period. I think that what the coalition did was rather inadequate. What we are now doing really is not too little, too late. I have always been critical of the previous bounty arrangement whereby, as honourable members are well aware, 67 per cent of the available funds went to Victoria. I think approximately 12 per cent went to Tasmania with less than 10 per cent going to the other States. Queensland, with the biggest problem in dairy reconstruction, received the least help. It may be of interest to compare some of the figures with respect to the average amount received in bounty payments from farms in the various States. New South Wales received approximately $538 per farm; Victoria received some $993; Queensland, $424; South Australia, $510; Western Australia, $521; and Tasmania, $800. Even with this sort of bounty assistance the long term trend of farmers getting out of the industry was still continuing. 
I have been a little critical of the fact that this Government introduced a 2-year phase-out of the bounty. Seeing that at that stage we were in the first year of a 5-year stabilisation period, I thought that a longer period of phase-out was certainly desirable. Three years would have been better and, perhaps, 4 years would have been most desirable. But, in any event, when we phase out assistance to an industry there needs to be substituted measures of assistance which are immediately available. It has been 17 months since we began to phase out the 2-year bounty period. This Bill now plugs the deficiency. I think restructuring in the industry was long overdue, but I think I am warranted in being a little critical when I say that we should have had these measures a lot quicker. New Zealand has shown what can be done when the Government sets out to restructure the industry in the interests of the New Zealand people, the national interest and the interest of the farmers themselves. The industries assistance reference gives producers a chance to show this body what they really need by way of longer term assistance in the future. I think there is need for the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to give farm bodies, which are putting in submissions, a fair amount of back-up information and some help in compiling submissions. 
I was a little concerned recently when I saw that the Prices Justification Tribunal was critical of some of the submissions put forward when the price of butter was being discussed. It seemed to me that some of the criticism implied that the dairy industry was being a little dishonest. I do not go along with that. In dairying the situation changes all the time, particularly in respect of the price being received overseas. The Prices Justification Tribunal is a powerful body but I think it is also remote and bureaucratic. Often it is totally dependent on the strength of the submissions put before it. If we have bodies such as the Prices Justification Tribunal I think it is important that the Government recognises not only the strength and virtues but also the weaknesses of such bodies and that it tries to help a little more people who are coming before it. 
In the time available I shall emphasise some of the background figures to the dairying industry which have given me reason to say that the problems have been of a long term nature. That is the reason why this Bill is directed not so much to the marginal aspects of the industry but more to uneconomic aspects of it. I have had some figures prepared by the Department of Agriculture to show the number of farmers who have gone out of the industry over the last 4 years. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="092131197411282_43_1.jpg"></graphic>

In 1970 there were 48,420 licensed dairy farms in Australia. By 1974 the number was estimated to be down to 34,140. If we look at the 10-year figures we see a more dramatic situation. In 1960 it is estimated that there were 1 17,750 dairy farmers of any classification. By 1 97 1 the number was down to 54,860- a drop of about 53 per cent. The figures indicate that farms are becoming bigger- that is, more and more farmers are leaving the industry yet production is remaining the same due to the fact that farms are becoming bigger. We see that the number of farms with 100 cows or more rose from 10,129 in 1960 to about 13,371 in 1971, and that the number of farms with 200 head of cattle or more rose from 903 in 1960 to 2,027 in 1 97 1 . So the trends are very clear. 
At the same time, due to the market forces acting on the dairying industry, this year will probably be one of the lowest production years for butter for quite a while. This has been caused mainly by weather factors and also by shifts in the structure of the dairying industry itself. Butter production in 1972-73 was 184,582 tonnes. Last year, 1973-74, it was estimated to be 175,230 tonnes. Other estimates put it as low as 155,000 tonnes. In the year ahead we expect a lowering of that figure. 
Let us look at a paper on reorganisation of the industry. Some time ago a group of economists looked at the dairying industry and pointed out that if one-sixth of the smallest dairy farms were removed from the industry there would be only a 2 per cent reduction in production yet there would be a 58 per cent increase in return to the producer, but if the acres and cows were averaged between all the producers in the industry the net income would be reduced by 18 per cent. Admittedly, this was a theoretical exercise, but it indicates the basic logic of the scheme before the House and any primary industry scheme where a proper restructuring is being attempted. It also shows the problems of the brutal principle of 'get big or get out'. Although this Government does not accept that doctrine, the object of this Bill is mainly to seek ways and means of helping people to restructure themselves at a viable level or to get out humanely. I think this is the logic behind most trends in primary industry, particularly where the capitalisation is not of a very high order. 
If we look at market trends overall we see a picture which shows the desirability of reconstruction of the whole industry. There is a fear in the industry, and also in my electorate, that as so many people are leaving the dairying industry city supplies of wholemilk will be threatened. From the figures available to me I do not think this will occur, but some people are concerned that, with the pressure of the cities on land around the cities particularly and with the pressure on farms to change to other more productive avenues of production, in future our whole milk supplies may not be as secure as they are now and the consuming public will not receive the benefit of the pricie of milk that they receive at present. That may be a good thing. I have always believed that farmers should receive the true value of their product. 
The way the State authorities fix prices for farmers is somewhat deficient. However, we need to have a balanced picture of the way in which the dairying industry faces the rest of the world. It is more a question of market adjustment than fears about the future of production of any one commodity. We know that the butter market is very sensitive to world trends. It is particularly sensitive to the trading stance of the European Economic Community countries and the United States of America. Many of the influences affecting world demand for manufactured dairy products are very similar to the influences on the Australian market. In Australia the consumption of butter is steadily fading away. It is nowhere near what it used to be. This indicates a change in consumer tastes. For example, in the case of butter there is a world wide movement away from the consumption of yellow fats and a strong competition from substitute products such as margarine. In many areas there is a strong upward trend in the consumption of cheese in response to rising incomes and changing tastes. 
In summary, the immediate outlook for dairy products, including butter, appears reasonably favourable. So we have to take a balanced approach to the future of the industry. That is why I feel that this Bill is so good in allowing people within the industry to restructure their form of production to the one that is most apt for their region. There will be a gradual expansion in domestic requirements for market milk, and this can be expected over a long term, while market prospects for cheese, skim milk powder and to a lesser extent casein are also favourable. On the other hand, the long term outlook for the principal manufactured item- butter and butterfat products- is less encouraging. This has implications for butter by-products such as skim milk powder and casein. As recent experience has shown, the situation in the international market, which has a most important influence on the Australian industry, can alter markedly in a relatively short period of time as a result of seasonal conditions and modifications in the policies of major producing and trading countries. With regard to the latter, the future production and trading policies pursued by the enlarged EEC will be especially important to the Australian dairying industry. 
What I have tried to say is that there is a need for a balanced approach. There is no reason for fear about the future of the dairying industry. For a very long time there has been a great need for a Bill of this type. I commend it to the House. 
I find myself in the invidious position of having to follow one of the best acts that we have seen in the House for a long time. The prime, fine wool growing electorate in this country is Hume. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has the audacity to come into the Parliament tonight in a dacron suit- a seersucker suit. If that is not bad enough, there is not one item of wool clothing on him.  His  speech showed woolly thinking, and, even worse than that, it was simply a tirade of personal abuse. This is fair enough. But with the sort of views that he has on the industry and the sort of insights that he has on the industry the mind boggles when one realises that he represents the electorate of Hume. The honourable member could scare a shearer's dog, but I think that that is about all he could do for the wool industry. 
He started his speech by saying that the fall in the price of wool would not have occurred if the Government had backed the wool market. He said that all the Government had to do was to back the market. What does the honourable member think we did but back the market? We have provided $350m to back the market. No one has said that that money was made available as anything but a loan. No one has said that it was anything but what the wool industry has wanted. But the honourable member has said that we have wrecked prices. He said that we have caused the price of wool to drop from 300c a kilogram clean to 250c a kilogram clean. All I say in reply to that is: Go to the Japanese textile companies and tell them that. Let us have the honourable member tell them to pay 300c a kilogram clean for our wool and see how far he gets. We have had quite a few red herrings drawn across the trail during this debate. Unfortunately, there seems to be a conflict in regard to telegrams. The telegram we have received from  Mr von  Bibra, the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, states: 
The AWIC has become aware of certain amendments that are being put forward by the Opposition to the Wool Industry Act. We do not support these in principle or in detail with one exception and that concerns section 28a. sub-clause 12. 
This is exactly what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  said in the House earlier tonight in this debate. I am not debating that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has not received a telegram as well. But I am pointing out that the information we go on is official because it comes from the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and not from some other person. 
The honourable member for New England- the Killara kid as he is known - 
I think that the Minister for Agriculture would be given a lot more credence than some honourable members opposite. The debate was kicked off tonight by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey).  He said that the Minister for Agriculture tried to get a Labor Party candidate on to the Australian Meat Board. What the Minister tried to do was to get onto the Meat Board a person who was a successful beef producer, a man who held a bachelor of agricultural science and who has spent 2 years in the United States of America studying the meat industry. He is a most competent person. This is all the Government is trying to do. It is trying to get the 10 best people onto the Board of the Australian Wool Corporation. The honourable member for Canning also said that one of the Western Australian members on the National Rural Advisory Council was chosen because he was a typical, ordinary farmer who happened to have done a farm management course. We chose him for those very attributes. The honourable member made some reference to some meeting. Quite frankly, I did not know what that was all about. Let us get on to some of the debate and forget about theatrics. 
This is a very serious measure. I should like to talk a little about some of the claims being made by honourable members opposite. Earlier today we were speaking on the Dairy Adjustment Bill. During that debate there was none of this nonsense about galloping socialism and centralism. This is a scheme in which all levels of government are co-operating and in which we can get some sense of priorities and can get an industry out of its problems. I often wish that honourable members opposite would realise that when this Government has priorities and wants to help in urban areas it is no more wrong than helping other areas that have been traditionally helped. 
There has really been no opposition to the guarantee of some $3S0m the Government is to give to the wool industry, even though the honourable member for New England said sneeringly that it was only a loan. We have also seen a statement in the Press that there will be a nationalising of the wool industry. If this is nationalisation, I should like to suggest that maybe we should suggest to the wool industry that we withdraw the $3 50m. It has not been conceded so far by the Opposition that this, for the first time, is a proper reserve price plan; it is not a compromise deficiencypaymentcumwelfare measure. That was the last scheme we had to help the wool industry when it was in the same sort of difficulty. It was a typical Country Party compromise where deals had to be done with the Liberals and the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate. I think it is hypocrisy for honourable members opposite to say that they will do certain things with respect to the measures we have introduced without going all the way. For example, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  today went on again about the dairy bounty being a linchpin. But he did not say whether or not the Opposition would put it back. 
I turn to the main matters in the Bill before the House. I refer to the composition of the Corporation. The speakers opposite have said that with a Corporation of 9 members the status quo is OK, but with 10 members we somehow get to the magic number, it gets too big, it is inflexible and the whole thing will fall apart. This is just absurd nonsense and indicates nothing more or less than the fact that the Country Party is purely and simply a Party of the status quo, even when it comes to being ridiculous. The Government's intention has been clear to the industry since August and the industry has already put up a panel of 8 for the Minister to select from. There has been far more dialogue between this Government and the wool industry at a proper level. True, we do not go around rural meetings trying to make ourselves popular and agreeing with everything that has been said, but this Government has involved itself in discussions with the industry at the proper level- at the level where we have federations of industry bodies. 
I turn to the background of the Bill. The industry was saying to us: 'Do not let the 1971 situation happen again. Do not destroy the country towns. Do not pull the carpet from underneath the countryside'. The Government accepted this. We said: 'We will back you with finance'. I must point out that the effects of this go far beyond the wool industry itself. It gives a certain stability to large areas of rural Australia. The Australian Wool Corporation said that it needed more powers and we agreed to this. But the Government sensibly said: 'If you are to have more powers we think there might be a case for having a bigger Corporation of 10 members instead of 9'. The Country Party stands for the status quo, in this case on the flimsiest grounds. 
The extra man is to have a technical background and the Minister will select him. What sensible person in the wool industry could object to this? I had a few years experience with the wool industry. I got to know the technical people, the buyers, the brokers, the unions involved and all the people associated with the industry. I can assure honourable members that I could not name anyone who could have any possible objection to a man of technical background being appointed to the Wool Corporation. I would not say the industry is a closed shop but there has been so much discussion within the wool industry over the last few years that most of the people with the desired technical background are already well known to the key people in the industry. The Australian Wool Industry Conference still nominates people for appointment to the Corporation but the Minister simply has the power to select. With an industry as large as the Australian wool industry it is essential to get the 10 best men. 
Let us have a look at the new powers that we are giving to the Australian Wool Corporation. These are indeed persuasive and wide powers. The Bill strengthens the hand of the Australian Wool Corporation in ensuring the regulation of the flow of wool on to the market in keeping with demand. Whilst the Corporation already participates in the determination of wool auction sale rosters and the schedules of offerings, it does not have the power to control the quantity of wool offered for public sale. The new provision explicitly confirms the right of the Corporation to withhold its reserve price protection in situations in which it believes the deferment of all or part of a proposed offering should be made, but contrary to the Corporation's wishes the offering is not deferred. 
The Bill provides for extensions to the trading powers. It proposes to enlarge the specific trading powers of the Corporation. The present powers of the Corporation in this area were originally designed principally to enable it to dispose of the wool purchased under its reserve price operations and, although they extend somewhat beyond this, they include restrictions which hamper the Corporation in some transactions. The new provision will enable the Corporation to be empowered to engage in a wider range of trading activities. The precise extent to which the Corporation will be able to exercise its enlarged trading function will be a matter for approval by the Minister for Agriculture. What sensible person could object to this? The Treasury, of necessity, needs to oversee new areas which the Corporation may wish to get into. Subject to this approval, the Corporation is being authorised to trade not only in wool but also in wool products, to supply wool for Australian foreign aid programs for example, to process wool and to manufacture wool products or to commission such works. Who could object to this? These are very wide powers. Hence there is a necessity for some ministerial control over their use. It is not envisaged that the Corporation will use all these powers immediately but rather as and when circumstances warrant it. 
I turn to one of the other powers- that which relates to the preparation of wool for sale. Provision is included in the Bill to enable the Corporation to withhold reserve price protection from any lot of wool that has not been prepared and presented for a sale in accordance with standards approved by the Corporation. This is intended to discourage careless classing and presentation for sale and to ensure that the Corporation is not obliged to support bad preparation of wool. I come now to the terms and conditions of sale of wool. The Corporation is being authorised to restrict its reserve price operations for those sales where the terms and conditions of acceptance, offering and sale have its approval. In this way the Corporation will be able to exert a stronger influence than at present over such matters as selling charges. 
Other provisions in the Bill deal with consultation with the unions. We have heard tonight from some honourable members opposite about this magical market support fund which they think, if set up as a trust fund, will be given some new virtues. I think we must state from the outset that the Government rejects the proposed amendments. In accordance with the wishes of the industry the relevant provisions have been so drafted as to ensure that the proceeds of the levy and their use will be separately identified and accounted for. The legislation we propose- I dearly wish some honourable members opposite had read it- is better; it provides for a fund within the Australian Wool Corporation account. Therefore it has more commercial flexibility in its use and benefit. A trust fund, as suggested by the Opposition, would be cumbersome. The proposed amendment would deny the optimum flexibility that is needed by the Australian Wool Corporation. In no way is the fund hidden. It is fully accountable. It has to be reported on at the end of each year, as with all statutory corporations. The accounts will have to be vetted and separately audited. A separation is maintained and identified and therefore they can be debated and scrutinised and all the growers can have confidence in them. 
I do not wish to cast aspersions on the Australian Wool Industry Conference, but if we are to have a trust fund and if this fund somehow is to be administered separately in some way I think we must point out that the AWIC is a semipolitical body; it is a wool industry political body. At the same time I think there are good grounds to say that the Conference is not fully representative. I think there are good grounds also to say that we would be doing a disservice to the industry by accepting the proposed amendment. What we are doing is taking the wisest and safest course. It would be a disservice to the community because the suggestion of the Opposition would be too cumbersome. 
To finish off, I should like to point out just what we are doing in this Bill. We are establishing a proper reserve price plan. It is not an emergency assistance scheme or whatever it was called in 1971. It does not simply guarantee a miserly level of income- 36c a lb- but it stabilises the market itself. It puts a proper floor under the market. We have been criticised previously for setting the level at 250c a kilo. At present I believe that the indicative price is at 257c a kilo. The level of price we have chosen has proved to be very wise, because the market seems to be backing this level pretty well. We do not have to look only at Australia for evidence of this. But when the Government brought in the fixed reserve price scheme the principal objectives were outlined by one of the authors of the Corporation's own report. The principal objectives were: 
To generate confidence among growers that prices will not decline to unremunerative levels, hence aiding production planning, facilitating security in financing of grower investments, and encouraging more stable long term production. 
To increase the confidence of users that prices will not decline further, thus providing a more certain basis on which to price intermediate products and generating greater confidence for each user so that his competitor will not be able to purchase wool more cheaply. The outcome should be to discourage the withholding of purchases in anticipation of further price declines and enhance a more even demand for wool at the greasy market, (c) Flowing from (a) and (b) to reduce the tendency for wool prices to exhibit a cyclic pattern from which much of the industry's instability stems, and hence, to improve the long term demand for wool. 
The reason why the comments of the honourable member for Hume were so inapplicable and simply so wrong is that if this Government has not put the reserve price on the market at the time when we did, the price would have dropped well and truly to below 250c. There is just simply no one who will give one any argument on this matter other than, perhaps the honourable member for Hume did, in his rather deluded speech. I honestly do not think he is impressing anyone in his wool growing electorate. I conclude on that point. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4-by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Membership of Corporation) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission sponsor a visit to Australia by the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra in 1973. 
) If so, what was the total cost of the visit. 
3 ) What were the total receipts from the performances. 
How many concerts did the Orchestra give and .in which locations. 
What prices were charged for concerts by the Orchestra in the Sydney Opera House. 
I really cannot understand why the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  should quote a State Minister as the main basis for his speech. I do not think that party ideology has any part in this debate. What we are talking about is a framework within which the Government can work with the States and by which we can extend goodwill. The Australian Government has responsibility quite clearly in this area. Last night the Government introduced a Bill relating to national parks. This is an area where it also has responsibility. What we are talking about is co-operative federalism, for want of a better description. We should not approach every problem or every Bill with swords drawn on this constant argument about State rights. The Australian Government simply cannot negotiate, it cannot talk and it cannot begin to work out ideas on these matters unless there is a Bill. This is what we are trying to do. It is what we are doing. 
The Bill is the most important environmental legislation to come before the Parliament. It is a first step. It is the first Bill in this area. In a speech to the Academy of Science on 29 November the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  when he was discussing environmental impact techniques, said: 
I cannot and will not promise that Australia will never suffer another Lake Pedder disaster. But, speaking for the Australian Labor Government, I do promise that such a mistake will only be made again if the community at large defaults on its responsibilities and ignores its rights. 
From now on the community is welded to the decisionmaking process as it affects the environment. For better or for worse, we have agreed that government belongs to the people and that the public should help make decisions which affect it closely. 
The politicians, for the time being, have gone as far as possible. The rest is up to you. 
In his frank way the Minister also pointed out what the legislation will not achieve. He said: 
It will not grant me the exclusive power of veto over proposals or policies. It will not force developers to abandon environmentally unsound objectives. It will not ensure that the Government makes environmentally sensible decisions. It will not give individual citizens the power to stop bad projects or to set conditions for moderate ones. 
In other words, it is a step in the right direction; it is the step to co-operate with the States. These 2 excerpts from the Minister's speech express the 2 key features of this Bill. Firstly, it is a further demonstration of the Government's policy with respect to open government whereby the public is vitally concerned, particularly in the processes of government, industrial activity or proposals. We believe that open government and freer expression mean more responsibility from all concerned. Secondly, the legislation is pathfinding not absolute. It will be subject to enhancement as a result of experience and the assessment of the significance of findings on proposals subject to environmental impact statements. 
There is very little Australian literature on the technique of environmental impacts. All I could find in the Parliamentary Library today related to the United States of America where there are different laws. There can be no claim, in my opinion, that in any way the Australian Government is usurping State rights in this matter, as it is clear that the State governments are also in the initial stages of developing their own techniques. Broadly the Australian Government will be concerned with Australian Government projects where Australian Government funds are involved and where the Australian Government has undisputed constitutional powers. As yet all the States do not have manuals on environmental impact statements. They cannot give the people in their own States clear guidelines yet on where to go. Possibly the major exception is New South Wales where a draft manual was brought in by  Mr Beale,  the then Minister, on 1 1 January 1973 and another version on 27 September 1973. Now a new department has been set up and it is combining environmental control with planning. The New South Wales legislation provides for 1 1 groups of administrative authorities concerned with this issue. For example, they are concerned with air pollution or waste disposal. The New South Wales manual points out the areas of expertise and provides a check list of the characteristics of the environment. What the State Government is doing is pointing out to its own Government departments where their responsibilities lie from now on. This is what we are trying to do in the same way. 
Queensland as yet does not have a manual, but it is in preparation. In South Australia recommendations of the Environment Protection Council on environmental impact statements have been approved by the South Australian Government. An Act either has been or is proposed to be introduced. There has been quite a deal of comment on it. In Tasmania, guidelines and procedures are set out. However, I do not know when its manual was prepared or a statement made. In Victoria there are still no real guidelines. A Bill is in preparation. It has been that way for the last 1 2 months, but it will be presented to the Parliament in the next session. In Western Australia there is still no official policy and one can say that the need per se for an environmental impact statement is not yet fully recognised. Quite obviously we are all in the same boat as far as environmental impact statements are concerned. We are all in the same boat in terms of the level of government awareness. However, it cannot be stressed too much that the Government welcomes State expertise and the capacity to provide statements and also develop the techniques. 
This Bill is in 3 parts. The first 5 clauses are introductory. Clauses 6 to 10 concern environmental impact statement techniques. Clauses 1 1 to 24 relate to hearings. The aim is to protect the environment by 2 means- the environmental impact statement technique and the hearings. Clause 6 is the key provision. Clause 7 provides how clause 6 should be approved, namely by regulation. The procedures are still to be detailed but I think we will learn by experience. I have seen some South Australian criticism of the impact legislation it proposes. It is said: 'If you do this too much by regulation it is going to become a messy situation. It would be better to incorporate it in the Act as soon as you can.' I take the counter view. I think one needs as much flexibility as possible in this matter. Clause 8 sets out the duties of all the other Ministers- meaning other Ministers in the Australian Government. There is really no need for the argument to be raised that there will be delays and conflicts between Australian Government departments. I believe the Minister will be able to sort this out on a simple level of contact. Clause 9 includes the provisions that should apply to statutory authorities. Clause 10 relates to extra public involvement. 
I emphasise that the aim, desire and hope of the Government is that when major development proposals are being considered it will be just as logical for business, for a government authority or a government department to make an environmental assessment as it is to make a feasibility study. In fact I see cost benefit economic analyses or economic studies being just as much a tool for environmental impact statements as I do for economic feasibility. For example, I can see this broadening into quite a few areasinto some of the larger issues that we will face with the environment. 
In my electorate, for example, it was proposed to set up an atomic power station. Perhaps when we do an environmental impact study on this form of energy production we should look at coal production, the side effects of uranium, the problems with fuel oil and all the rest of it. Again there is a need to look at these things in cost terms to get a proper environmental impact statement. I do not think business objects to this at all any more. Last night I spoke to a group of businessmen who are engaged in rather messy businesses. Quite by coincidence the headquarters of their companies were in Houston. One of the dramatic experiences that the American businesses went through was, of course, the problems caused by the Houston ship canal. This has had a great impact on American business. Business world-wide now accepts that it cannot get away with what it used to and it accepts this quite responsibly. When the full procedures are developed and followed and the public has been involved, then ultimately it will be up to the Minister and not the courts to decide. There are plenty of ways that the Minister will be able to be involved in this with the public. As it stands, in the United States of America there are now instances where court actions are causing intolerable delays. I think this Bill is better in that respect. 
To conclude in general terms, I have had some doubts about environmental impact statements. One thing that has always worried me is that the statement depends on who writes it. There are the examples of Black Mountain and Lake Pedder where the constructing authorities made statements. There are other alternatives to this. I believe that in Hawaii the Department of Planning and Growth Guidance charters a university to prepare the statement, and business pays. In Australia, this Bill does not take such an approach because it puts the responsibility on public participation and the development of the procedures themselves. 
Another problem is the problem of categorising an environment. I believe that in the United States their indices go up to 1,500 parameters. If humans were included, it would mean an increase of approximately 1,500 parameters. This is rather confusing. It also appears to me that environmental impact statement techniques tend to ignore people. For example, in one proposal that came to our attention it was intended to turn wasteland into a park. It looked very feasible. An environmental impact study was conducted. It turned out OK but it would have been a rather sad show for the people concerned because the noise pollution and the other effects would have been quite traumatic. I believe that with co-operation and a desire to see optimim use of the environment we will overcome these procedures at all levels. Always the general concern is that development procedures will bog down, that people will say that there has always been another way, and that the procedures will become unworkable. Also, concern is often expressed that if one government is negligent, mucky industries will gravitate to its area. I believe that these problems will not occur if people accept their community responsibility and awareness. In other words, major issues will not blow up and in most instances all that will happen will be that there will be very little public comment once people get used to the procedures and to developing their own community responsibility. I think that any other problems can only be resolved in this very basic legislation by public pressure, open government and public participation. We must accept that generally this Government has heightened political awareness in Australia. In conclusion, I state that I have confidence in the awareness of governments, the people and business. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Can he say what will be the effect of the recently announced voluntary restrictions on textile imports on the exports of textiles from the following developing countries: (a) China, (b) India, (c) Pakistan and (d) The Philippines. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1) By how many pages would the present Notice Paper be reduced if the practice of inflating the tally of questions on notice by the device of directing the same question individually to each of the 27 Ministers were to cease. 
Will the Prime Minister state the saving to the taxpayer, in terms of paper and printing savings, which would result if the practice was to ask these questions only once, incorporating a preamble which indicated that the information was sought from each of the 27 Ministers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Further to my question No. 1876 of 25 November 1974, if the Notice Paper was published in full only on the first sitting day of each week, with subsequent issues for the week omitting all questions on notice except for those which appear for the first time during that week, what would be the savings in (a) labour and (b) production costs for a typical sitting week, e.g. the week ended 2 1 November 1 974. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property in his capacity as the Minister in charge of electoral affairs. Will he state whether, following the introduction of legislation to provide for the disclosure of the source of campaign funds, he has any evidence of huge amounts being collected from anonymous sources by political parties and candidates in Australia? 
I too join my colleagues the honourable members for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  and Casey  (Mr Mathews)  in expressing my concern and disgust at the actions of the New South Wales Government and the New South Wales Premier in particular. It is my belief that the action of the Premier of New South Wales squares very soundly with his action in threatening the power workers in that State. It was a most unjust action but eventually the issue was settled by negotiation. This typical authoritarian approach of the New South Wales Premier will become more evident in the future. I also join with the honourable member for Casey who said that if the Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable Bill Snedden, is really concerned that convention should be followed in this matter, he should not attend this wave of liberalism rally that the Liberal Party is holding at Randwick racecourse this weekend. I have a card which relates to the rally and I must say that the live entertainment has been chosen exceptionally well. The live entertainment consists of the Buffaloes and Premier Tom Lewis. That befits his approach to politics. Then, of course, there is the Boadicea group, together with the Liberal Leader, Bill Snedden. Most of his politics go back to the time of Boadicea. The card tells people to bring a litter bag to take away the rubbish. 
On a serious point, I believe, as do my colleagues, that the parliamentary system, and possibly democracy itself, is in danger in many countries today. I believe we have the same sort of problem in Australia. The stature of this Parliament is diminishing possibly because of the nature of Australian society and the political parties it has spawned. But in this matter we are concerned not only about convention; I think we as parliamentarians, and any person elected to a parliament, must also realise that in parliaments there must be a large element of magnanimity. There must be a large amount of magnanimity in politics itself. Politics is also the art of welding communities together as much as it is of political parties trying to maximise their own gains within the community. I believe the Austraiian Labor Party is not entirely a socialist party, but it does stand for policy reform or change based on a social, democratic approach. Even if the Labor Party is not socialist in my terms, socialism is a proper ideal and it is proper for many members of the party to call themselves socialists. On the other hand, the Liberal Party is not liberal; it is not a true conservative party; and it is not even a party of free enterprise. It is a party that is completely irresponsible and is disappointing in Opposition. The Liberal Party in the Senate has taken upon itself a role that not only bucks convention and principled practice but also its leader there is developing a curious political theory to give his House an ascendancy never intended by the founding fathers. 
If one takes the broad view of Australia's political situation at present it must be stated that the failure of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to give any leadership to the Opposition parties, the failure of the Leader of the Opposition to state whether or not he intends torpedoeing the elected Government of this country by denying supply are major destabilising factors in Austraiian politics at present. The Opposition is concerned only with the development and distortion of every popular prejudice. When in opposition the Australian Labor Party was told that it had no policies. When it developed the most thorough-going range of policies for every aspect of Australia's political life it was told that it could not put them into practice. We have shown what we can implement. We have shown that the policies the people wanted can be put into effect. 
What the Liberals are now doing in Opposition is exactly the same response by the conservative forces in Australia as occurred under previous progressive governments, particularly federal governments: Political thuggery, maximum mobilisation of every opportunistic Opposition force, the blowing up of minor issues out of all proportion. This has occurred whether the Labor Government be that of Fisher, Scullin, Curtin or Chifley. The denial of supply can be said to be far worse than what the Premier of New South Wales is perpetrating. 
Here I would like to point out that he is simply not correct in what he is saying; it is simply a political ploy on his part. There is not an ounce of substance in what he is saying.  Senator Murphy,  now  Mr Murphy,  is eminently suitable for a position on the High Court. He has the exact legal background that is required for such a position. I do not believe, as some of my colleagues apparently believe, that by appointing people to the High Court with certain political leanings they are going to act much differently. If one looks at the High Court and the way it has ruled, it is an exceptionally, legalistic body. I have a lot of faith in  Mr Murphy  acting precisely as he sees the law. There is a lot built up about Lionel Murphy and the ASIO raids. I put it to honourable members that every other person in this place, if faced with exactly the same situation as he was, would have done exactly the same thing. 
-Well, I do. I think we also should quote what other people have said about High Court judges. For example, one of the Parliament's greatest traditionalists,  Sir Robert  Menzies, then  Mr Menzies,  whose Cabinets have seated more High Court judges than any other, reminded Parliament in 1946: 
. there is no question that what we call constitutional law is only half law and half philosophy, political philosophy, and therefore it, more than any other branch of law, changes according to the philosophical current in the minds of the people from time to time. 
This was not, of course, a startlingly novel thought or yet one unshared by judges. Isaacs, for example, remarked in his judgment in the Commonwealth v. Kreglinger and Fernau Ltd in 1926: 
As a living, co-ordinate branch of the Government, (the Court) cannot stand still and refuse, interpreting the law, to recognise the advancing frontiers of public thought and public activity. 
A lawyer of ability who has had some parliamentary experience and preferably, in addition, some ministerial experience is likely to have an especially realistic feel for the issues arising in constitutional cases. I think on these grounds  Mr Lewis,  in saying that  Mr Murphy  is not an eminent jurist, is not only acting for the most blatant political reasons but also simply wrong. 

 Mr Lewis is wholly contained within my electorate; I am not saying I wholly contain  Mr Lewis.  I have long admired some of his political attributes. However, I not only disagree entirely with most of his political philosophy; I also disagree with the whole approach to his exercising of power. In acting in the way he is in this matter, not only is he acting arrogantly and in an authoritarian way, but also he is acting 'arrogantly with respect to the wishes of the people he represents in New South Wales.  His  approach is not only a 'boots and all' one, that we all understand in this House, but also an arrogant and bullying one. There are many other examples in my electorate where he has followed exactly the same approach. 
For example, the Minister at the table at present is the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  Let us consider the Beecroft Heads issue in my electorate, which involved him. This was a situation in which the Beecroft Heads lease, which is used by the Navy, the Fleet Air Arm and the Air Force, was to expire on 30 June 1974- a simple enough proposition. We thought that the New South Wales Government would renew the lease, particularly in the light of the fact that we have defence powers and could acquire the land at any time. But no;  Mr Lewis,  as Minister for Lands, took the bullying approach that this matter was negotiable and that the future of the Sydney Harbour foreshores depended on whether he signed the lease over to the Australian Government for defence purposes. We simply pointed out that we were quite prepared to give the New South Wales people, as they wished, the Sydney Harbour foreshores. But no; we were not allowed to impose any other requirements, such as that we did not want the New South Wales Government to sell the land to real estate developers- this had to be negotiable.  Mr Lewis,  as Minister for Lands, adopted this bullying approach right through that issue. Eventually, instead of the New South Wales Government simply signing the lease and the Australian Government simply saying that it would hand over the Sydney Harbour foreshores, some money was supposed to have changed hands as a result of the transaction because, quite simply, we were not prepared to push this issue to such an absurd political position for the sake of the ego of one man,  Mr Lewis. 
The same situation could apply right in the middle of his electorate with respect to the Berrima airport issue. In this case there was a patch of Crown land between the township of old Berrima, the most historic village in Australia, and new Berrima. Funnily enough, some plans appeared in the Wingecarribee Shire Council that indicated an airport would be placed there. Funnily enough, some Crown land had been gazetted in a certain way by the Minister for Lands. Funnily enough, the people had not been consulted on this. Again, even last week, a Liberal member of the shire council put up a proposition that this area should be devoted to a small airstrip, against the wishes of the people but in concurrence with the wishes of  Mr Lewis  and his bullying attitude. I can name many other issues in that electorate. 
He lives at Darling Point and also in Moss Vale. But within 5 miles of where he lives in Moss Vale he wanted to have an airport. I wonder why he wanted one. I could nominate many other issues. I mention the Fitzroy Falls land issue where  Mr Lewis  happened to own some land that was ultimately resumed by the Water Board. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Many of the members of the Opposition who have spoken in this debate have so far wasted considerable time saying that they do not have enough time to discuss the Bill. It would have been more informative if they had spent their time in fact discussing the Bill. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  referred to a clause which the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  has foreshadowed he will seek to amend. There were some phrases in the honourable member's speech that led me to believe that the Austraiian Country Party might be opposed to the Bill as a whole. There seems to be confusion on the part of the Opposition as to whether it is merely opposed to the principle of the Bill, some clauses of the Bill or the Bill as a whole. I hope that the attitude of members of the Opposition will become clearer. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  made some mention of the name of the employers of my Liberal opponent in the seat of Macarthur. I would like to say that I make no comment on the firm or the gentleman concerned other than to say that when allegations were made about this firm I do not believed he worked for it. So, to attack him on those grounds would be unfair. One of the more substantive points raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and other honourable members this evening has been the socalled enormous powers of this Commission. This will be an independent body, clear of government influence. It will be a rule-making body. The Governor-General has the power to make regulations and the Governor-General has the paramount power. The Governor-General, via the Attorney-General, can make regulations with respect to the rules that the Commission brings down. I expect that the Attorney-General could explain these matters a lot clearer than I can. 
The people will have a chance to put their case in respect to any rules. But the whole situation of the rules will still be subject to parliamentary disallowance in the normal fashion. Some people seem to be investing the powers of this Commission, the rule-making role and the GovernorGeneral's capacity to make regulations with motives that simply do not exist. As I understand it the Parliament is paramount. Opposition speakers have said also that there is no review or appeal procedure. Again, as I understand it, the Commission is required to give a public hearing of any alleged breach of the rules and regulations as set down. The Commission has to abide by rules of natural justice. The Commission has to give a written statement of the reasons why it is taking any action and, even then, there is the appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. In other words, as I see it, the situation under this Bill is very generous indeed and in its safeguards it is in fact bending over backwards. 
Another honourable member made a statement in relation to the Commission's power to withdraw prospectuses. Again, as I understand the position at present a prospectus can be issued for 6 months duration and there is nothing to stop securities being sold in terms of that prospectus during the 6 months, even though evidence might come to the fore that the prospectus is false or misleading. So that is why the Commission has the powers vested in it to cut off the prospectuses immediately. As I said, I would hope that the Attorney-General will explain these procedures in a clearer fashion than I am able to do. But I do not accept that this body has enormous powers that go beyond the powers of other parliamentary bodies or commissions and I do not accept that there are no review or appeal procedures. In the ultimate I think there will be a further appeal to the Superior Court when it is established. 
I would agree that this is a most comprehensive piece of legislation and I do share some of the reservations of honourable members opposite in trying to grasp the overall content of this Bill or to get an overall grasp of the Rae report. Bearing in mind that there are some 284 clauses in the Bill and a report about 2 feet high, a 20. minute speech allows quite inadequate time to deal with the subject under discussion. I expect that the Opposition will want more discussion of this Bill in the Senate, so perhaps we could suggest that people like  Senator Rae  and  Senator Durack  could inform the Opposition there more fully on matters, particularly in respect of the Rae report. I have tried to read the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange but I find it hard to take in at one sitting. So I share these misgivings. However, the report itself does indicate the breadth and depth of consideration given to the securities industry by members of this Parliament and previous parliaments. No one can seriously say that the matter has not been seriously discussed. It was about 4 years in gestation and it seems to me that there has been very adequate discussion on many aspects of the securities industry. So long as this Bill follows on pretty clearly from the findings of the Rae Committee, as I believe it does, it would seem to me that- there is ample room for discussion in dealing with it. 
I would like to address my comments to those people who perhaps are listening in and those people who will read the speeches because I share what is probably common community prejudices about the Stock Exchange. Many people seem to think that the Stock Exchanges are magic. Many people think that the stock exchanges are dominated by fear and greed, that there are only two kinds of operators in the exchanges- mugs and speculators. This is why I think it is essential that this sort of legislation is put forward to give the public confidence. We have heard a lot about business confidence. We hear a lot about private enterprise. I believe this Bill is a chance to put free enterprise into practice, to allow a free market to operate- a free market, albiet a regulated one. If we are to talk about business confidence, if we are to talk about free markets, I think the private sector must be able to believe in its own propaganda. 
Part of the reason for this Bill is the need to reassure the public that their rights are being protected. An editorial which appeared in the 2 January 1975 edition of the 'Australian Financial Review', under the heading of 'Public's Right to Know about Stock Exchanges ', stated: 
The Australian stockbroking industry learns nothing, behaves with breathtaking arrogance and deserves much of what it is now receiving at the hands of the investing public. 
Last year saw the publication of the Rae Committee report, which outlined some of the abuses by stockbrokers during the course of the mining boom. 
In their typical closed shop, old boy fashion, the various exchanges dealt with those who had been discovered breaking the rules. 
In every case the treatment handed out was pitifully small considering the magnitude of the breaches in professional ethics. 
In most cases the stock exchanges pursued their secretive ways of declining even to name those who had been penalised for breaking the rules. 
That is from the 'Australian Financial Review' of 2 January 1975. I do not believe that the 'Australian Financial Review' is unsympathetic with the business community or the stock exchanges. In fact, I think all commentators have said in the Press, in academic circles and elsewhere that there is an overwhelming need for this sort of legislation. If there are to be racecourses of the kind involving stock exchanges, there need to be a few stewards around. In fact the racecourse analogy is not too bad a one to use. One writer has written that few solutions to the problems of the securities markets have been proposed, and left to manipulation and the laws of the market place the stock markets in Australia have described a series of boom and bust' cycles. In the absence of proper regulation, such cycles may reasonably be expected to repeat themselves. Unfortunately, each cycle is costly in terms of efficient capital allocation, industrial development, and above all, investor confidence. There is an almost palpable tendency among Australians to view the stock market as a place to gamble freely, not merely spare funds, but as much as can be obtained from any source. It is true that stock market investors all over the world speculate at one time or another or in one stock or another. However, it is important to understand that attitudes now, and in 1969 in Sydney, are similar to those held in New York in 1929. The stock market is equated with the race track by most small traders, commonly referred to as 'punters' by the newspapers, and a quick killing is a predominant goal of even the well-educated. As was said by my friend the honourable member for Casey, the New York situation in 1929 was acted on some 40 years ago and this legislation does not go as far as the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States of America. 
As I said, I think there is a need for national legislation. People buying shares in Brisbane on the Perth Exchange need to know exactly what the situation is. Apart from some of the prejudices that I think the public shares and the prejudices I probably have, I find that I am tempted to sort out some names in the Rae report where misconduct has been shown. But I think it is always dangerous to take some particular cases and to generalise. I think that if we look at the Rae report in a balanced fashion it is fair enough to say that many people in stock exchanges have, and always have, acted admirably. I think it is also fair enough to say that the Rae Committee report became investigatory and rogues were flushed out by it. It is a pity that the report is not more widely disseminated. I have found that even the chapter headings provide gems. All sorts of images are conjured up by them. Although it is a pity that we get the idea that all people in the industry are rogues, I think some of the romantic tides to the chapters reveal a fair amount of a serious nature behind the report. For example, in Chapter 2 we have:  'Mr Biggs'  Punt'- I do not think that is Ronald Biggs; Share Placements made with Inside Information'; 'Issuing New Shares to Directors' Associates'; 'The Misleading "Letter to Shareholders" '; 'Firing The Boom'; and 'Fuelling the Boom: Realising Profits'. Some of the headings to Chapter 4 of the report state: 'Share-trading Practices Leading to the Collapse'; 'Employees' Trading in Shares'; 'The Principals' Last Gamble'; and 'Failure to Fulfil the Prospectus' Objectives '. Other headings included: ' Use ofthe Financial Press' and 'Brokers as Privileged Speculators'. One can go on and on. 
As a layman I must confess also that I do not understand the way the stock exchange works. But I think I can express my own thoughts on the necessity of the legislation before the House. I think the legislation before House is going to weld in very acceptably and successfully with the national companies legislation yet to be brought down. I think there is a fair sort of relationship between the Rae Committee report and the Fitzgerald report with respect to taxation abuses that occurred, again during the mining boom, and the way certain mining companies were set up purely and simply to exploit provisions within the law. What worries me when members of the Opposition put forward objections to this legislation is that it would seem to me that they are exactly the same sort of objections that were put forward when  Senator Murphy  first raised the whole problem of the abuses that were alleged to be going on in the security exchanges and the need for an investigation into them. 
What the Rae report did when it ultimately came down was to prove beyond doubt that attention was needed and had to be given if investors were to have any confidence in our securities market. The Rae report points out that there is simply too much ammunition for the securities industry to resist its findings. I believe that since the report came out in the last year or so there have been 260 amendments to the listing requirements for companies. I believe that there have been some 120 alterations to the rules of the stock exchanges. But even given this there seems that there needs to be overall national legislation. One honourable member tonight commented that much of this is a rehash of State legislation. I think that is all well and good. At the same time it is essential that we do have one national securities Act just as we have one truly national Companies Act. 
A while ago I referred to free enterprise and market economics. Although I might not be quite competent to speak on the stock exchange I think I do understand a little about markets. If we are talking about a fully competitive capital market the first thing that we have to realise is that at least 80 per cent of capital in Australia is gained by companies from depreciation and retained earnings and that in fact only some 20 per cent is raised in other ways. To take a quote from the Melbourne 'Age' of 20 July 1974 the writer of the article, Kenneth Davidson, says: 
Fortunately about 80 per cent of the funds for investment in Australia are generated from depreciation allowances and retained earnings. However, the remaining 20 per cent must be raised on Australian capital markets as the basis for funding new companies and to provide for the growth of companies beyond that made possible by the generation of internal cash flows. 
As the report shows, in the two years ofthe boom following Poseidon, more than $300m in risk capital was raised for around 200 companies floated at the time. Nearly all these ventures have proved failures or at best marginal propositions, and only a fraction of the money raised actually went into exploration and development activity. 
So what this quote is saying is simply that the function of the stock exchanges as raisers of capital is probably diminishing and probably needs to be re-evaluated. 
When we are talking about a fully competitive market in respect of shares there are certain things which are needed for the market to act in a free manner. We need to have an infinite number of buyers; we need to have an infinite number of sellers and we need to have a situation where the buyer and the seller have perfect knowledge particularly in respect of price and quality. Where there is exclusive market knowledge there will be an opportunity for cartels or monopolies or, in the language of the stock exchange, 'rings'. If we are looking at the competitive situation within a market and if we take the spectrum from competition to monopoly it can be established that the point of a market being less than perfect occurs when there are only 3 buyers or 3 sellers in the market. If there are not 3 sellers or if there is exclusive knowledge then the price can be influenced. If there are only 3 bidders the price paid will be a function of the bidding process and I suppose we can say the bidding process in a stock market is a Dutch auction. The variations up or down will depend on the competitive pressure from the buyer's side but again this competitive pressure will depend on knowledge. Bidding will be dangerous if three or less independent bidders operate in the market and by independent I mean knowledge is shared but there is no knowledge of the other's intention. A ring can be formed if a number of buyers act as one in a market. 
What I have tried to set out is the basis of a market if free enterprise or free market economics is to be adhered to. There is no time to equate this to the real world of the stock market but it should be evident that there have been many examples where less than perfect knowledge has prevailed due to a multiplicity of abuses of the Exchange-for example, insider trading, share rigging and abuses by even members of the exchanges themselves. As I said, the Rae Committee was 4 years in gestation. It had ample opportunity to examine all these things at the closest vantage point. Evidence taken in camera is still not available to members of the House but I think some of the evidence in camera is surely contained in the summary. I should like simply to quote from the major summary which in chapter 15 under the heading 'The Failings of the Existing Regulations ' says: 
We discovered numerous instances of improper practices in the making of new issues, and in the distribution of previously issued shares. There has been considerable evidence of insider trading, manipulation and other abuse in the stock-markets. We have seen much evidence of behaviour among share-brokers, other intermediaries and advisers in the securities industry and among some financial journalists which has fallen short of the minimum standards of propriety, competence and financial responsibility. 
In addition to our concern with abuses within the securities market, we are alarmed by evidence of improper, reckless and incompetent behaviour on the part of some of those in control of public companies and investment funds. The investor has too often been exploited by controllers of listed public companies and by managers of investment funds. 
In summing up part of this chapter the report reads: 
Government in Australia would be irresponsible if it were not to upgrade substantially regulatory procedures so as to guard against repetition of fraud, abuse and incompetence on the scale of recent years. 
In Australia at present there is no body or group of bodies which has, individually or collectively, the responsibility, the jurisdiction, the power and the expertise to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of regulation of the securities market and related public company activities. Rather, regulation depends upon the action of a number of bodies, the principal ones being the stock exchanges and the State and Territorial Companies Offices. 
The report in the summary then went on to review the Stock Exchanges and the State companies offices. It went on with a long chapter in respect of the failings of the stock exchanges. The summary reads: 
There has, for a long time, been an assumption on the part of some governments, company registrars or commissioners, law reformers and others that general responsibility for regulation of the securities market rests with the stock exchanges and more particularly with their committees, and that, having regard to their performance and expertise, it is best left to them. That assumption is not warranted. First of all, it overlooks the fact that the stock exchanges have limited jurisdiction and power. 
I turn now to another chapter heading in the summary called 'Regulation of Stock Exchange Members'. It reads: 
Dealing with the first of these, we have found that the performance by the exchanges of their regulatory responsibilities with respect to their members has been seriously wanting. 
Another chapter heading in the summary reads  Regulation of the Market '. It says: 
The performance by the stock exchanges of the second function mentioned above- that of regulating the market itself- has also been defective. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture seen a report in this morning's 'Australian Financial Review' that the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party has said that the Australian National Cattlemen's Council is not acting politically enough? Does the Government believe that industry groups should act politically or in the interests of the people they represent, without political bias? 
-There is probably no honourable member in this House whom I would like less to follow in opposition in this debate than the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  because I am afraid that I disagree with my old friend. However, I assure the House that my respect for him is undiminished. I would like to make a few simple points on the Bill before the House. I am in favour of the Bill and opposed to the amendment. Of course, no one could be opposed to some clauses of the amendment because, to my mind, they virtually state much of what this Bill is all about. 
The Bill is a major social reform. The Bill enhances the status of women. The Bill does more for the care of children involved in divorce cases than the existing legislation does. I concede that the family court will need to be tried in practice. I concede that it will need to be reviewed. I concede that perhaps in a year's time there will need to be amendments to the Bill. But I believe that this is a major advance, that we should persevere with it and that we should debate it in the spirit in which we have been debating it here today. 
I will not make any new points because I believe that most of it has been said. But I would like to comment on the sanity to today's debate. Unlike the last time we discussed the Bill in this House, the debate has been cool and rational. People have put their points forward in a very careful manner. I have been interested to see what points of agreement and disagreement we have been able to reach. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  make the point that perhaps this Bill sacrifies too much at the altar of no fault, that there are times when we need to be able to dissolve a marriage in less than 12 months. I hope that the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  will take some notice of this because there are extreme cases. 
Rational discussion allows us to define the proper areas for discussion in this matter and to discern where divisions in thought lie. No honourable member can fail to be moved by the deeply held beliefs of people in their own electorates who believe that the Bill is against the tenets of Christianity and family life. No one can fail to respect the deeply held beliefs put forward by the honourable member for Macquarie. I believe that this Bill does not interfere with the rights of practising Christians- the great majority of our population- nor does it interfere with family life. One cannot fail to be moved by those who have a highly developed sense of absolute civil liberties which assumes that we are highly intelligent, balanced and all possessed of high capacity. Here again I believe that this Bill does not interfere with their rights or views, nor does it engender irresponsibility, a throwing away of values and a destruction of the basis of our society. In fact, in all the letters I have received for and against- perhaps most have been against- I have yet to receive a letter from people involved in divorces who are against this 
Bill. 'If one could abuse the privilege of confidentiality and read some of the letters people have written to me on this matter setting out the details of the divorce or the break-up of their own families, I think we would all look at this Bill in a new light. 
I believe that the Bill does not do the things I have outlined. 'I believe it is having aspects attributed to it -.which are not envisaged. It is being misrepresented, and I shall speak on that matter. Fundamentally the views expressed in the Bill to my mind rest on the division between the approach of a moralist and that of a moral philosopher. In my terms a moralist is a person who prescribes the values of society perhaps, but not necessarily, in terms of a religious belief or a system of values; for example, any of the religions including Marxism. It is the idea of do as I say; do as is said; if you do not do this you will be doing naughty things. A moral philosopher is one who seeks to discover the nature of truth, what is good or bad, what is the nature of goodness or badness and what values can be placed on the various aspects of the matter under discussion. He does not think in terms of do as I say or as it is said, but in terms of what is for the betterment of society in terms of real situations. I do not believe that this definition of the attitude of a moralist and that of a moral philospher represents any aspects of an arid materialism. 
In this Parliament we are upholding the principles of a democratic state. Not only do we need to act in terms of the beliefs and prejudices of the community from which we come but also we have to uphold the values of democracy and to hold the state in check. What we are talking about in respect to marriage is, in one sense, the freedom of association. There is always a prima facie case for freedom; because men must not be used merely as tools, the onus of proof always rests on whoever wants to limit it not on those enjoying it. We must assume then, until we are proved wrong, that if men want to associate for sectional purposes they should be left unmolested. But it is easy to think of particular types of association like robber bands, for which a contrary case could. certainly be made out. 
There is also a special case for freedom of association over and above the formal prima facie case for not interfering, analagous in some respects to the special case for freedom of discussion. The weight to be attached to this case will depend, of course, on the type of interest that any particular association is designed to serve and its impact on other interests. Of course there have to be limitations in a democratic state. 
There are state regulations in respect of self defence. There are state regulations to protect nonmembers. Perhaps we could say the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill we debated the other night is an example. The state needs to impose limitations with respect to the interests of members of the associations. I refer, for example, to the sort of matters that are discussed in equity courts. Of course the state also has to intervene in conflicts between associations. When we are talking about the state of the family I think we are talking about a very special form of association. A lot of comment has been made about the title of this Bill- the Family Law Bill. As I understand it this title arises not due to the fact that anyone wished to give this Bill an incorrect title but simply from the point of view of legal usage and the way it is described in the law text books. AH these aspects of law as I understand it, are discussed under the general heading of 'family law'. This title is not used for the purpose of misrepresentation. 
I maintain in principle that the state will do well to leave people to manage their own domestic affairs, intervening as an umpire mainly in defence of other interests or of individual members if the association abuses its powers. Beyond that it can usefully co-ordinate activities which might otherwise be mutually defeating and initiate enterprises which would be impossible without co-operation from many associations. The problem of the family is superficially somewhat different. Unlike mass associations, its ties are informal, but it inspires powerful loyalties all the same; its authority is effective although it is exercised within a very indefinite rule structure. Families regulate such intimate and personal matters, and so many of their rules are vague understandings arrived at by experiment and mutual adjustment, but there seems to be an especially strong case for leaving them alone. Any general rule would seem beside the point in very many cases. The legal rules, for instance, governing the property rights of husband and wife are quite irrelevant in families where all property has always been pooled. 
Nevertheless the state has built around the family an elaborate legal structure which prescribes a minimum age for marriage and forbids marriage between close relatives. It prohibits bigamy. It makes dissolution of the marriage association and the forming of a new one subject to strict conditions and procedures, or in some states it forbids it altogether, or in some advanced states it is bringing up new rules for the dissolution of the marriage association. That is what we are discussing. It obliges one associatethe husband and father- to support the others, at least while they are unable to support themselves. It regulates property relations between members while at the same time treating the family as a whole in some measure as a propertyowning unit. It may even prescribe limiting conditions for the transmission of family property from one generation to the next, although it upholds in principle the freedom of testamentary disposition. 
One reason for this close interest is that the procreation and rearing of children, which is the principal function of the family, is of interest to others besides the parents. Precisely because children are automatically members of a family and can have no choice in the matter, and be-  .....  they  lIe  subject  try  parental authority their  - -------- j  - - --- ~j--- j~ -------- -------  "j : - ~ -  interests must be guaranteed by the state, as it must guarantee the rights of a member of any association which exercises effective power. Moreover, other citizens have an interest in the matter, for it is of general concern that children should be equipped to become reasonably social and useful men and women. 
In secular terms, it is difficult to see what concern the state would have with marriage but for its procreative aspect. Some states have made adultery and fornication criminal offences, but it is doubtful whether such a law could be effective. On the whole these matters are probably best left to conventional rather than legal control, although of course one can concede that there may be a case on the ground of public health for legal control of prostitution, but this is another matter. The concern for children apart, there would be little point in drawing a legal distinction between informal sexual relations and formal and recognised marriage. Religious considerations are not here to the point. Marriage may be distinguished by its sacramental character, while other sorts of sexual relations may be sin; but that is a distinction to be drawn by a church, not by any state that adopts a position of religious neutrality. I believe this is not the role we play. 
The state is concerned, of course, for the wife as well as for the children. Where the husband exercises a strong customary authority, as in early Victorian England or in Arabian countries, the state might be right to establish legal safeguards to protect the wife. But because the law in such matters is always a reflection of custom, that protection rarely exists in fact. In some legal systems, a wife's status is more like that of an object of property rights than of a party to a contract. 
The legal rights of married women against their husbands were considerably extended in this country in the 19th century as part of a general emancipation of women, in custom as well as in law. But the need for legal protection diminished as the protection itself increased. Today it is no longer so shocking or so difficult for a married woman to work for her living as once it was. She is therefore less subject to the economic power of her husband. Easier divorce too has partially opened up a legal way of escape. I would make the point here again that this is not a Bill for easy divorce. There would seem to be less reason today, then, for legal protection for married women than there was 100 years ago. 
Nevertheless, a husband is still legally obliged in principle to support his wife, and she has special property rights against him. But what grounds could there be for this continuing interest of the state in a relationship which is rapidly becoming a partnership of equals rather than a subjection of one to the power and authority of the other? One answer may be that the wife's independence lasts only until she becomes a mother, for then she usually loses the ability to fend for herself, except at her children's expense, and becomes again dependent on her husband and in need of protection. 
I believe if we look at the real world this Bill takes all these general concepts about the role of a state in a democratic society into account. I think if we look at the real world we need to say that the experience of marriage guidance organisations and world wide research on the subject of marriage recognise the fact that relationships between human beings are infinitely complex and that legislation can never hope to stand in judgment in such delicate matters. Therefore the only just and humane course is to allow citizens maximum freedom to work out these complexities in as dignified and humane a way as possible. I believe that the Family Law Bill goes further than any other legislation in the past to allow this to happen. 
Having set out my general beliefs on this subject I would like to take some time to deal with criticisms of the Bill. Unlike my friend the honourable member for Macquarie, I believe that clause 43 sets out to break down the claim that the Bill will lead to the breakdown of family life. It states that the Family Court, which I concede may need looking at from time to time, shall have regard to the need to protect the institution of marriage and family life generally, the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare, and the means available to assist parties to the marriage to consider reconciliation and the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. 
Some honourable members have mentioned their fears that in certain break-ups of marriage the wife will be left destitute, that she will not have the capacity to earn an income or will be too old to earn an income. Clause 75 states very clearly that income, property and financial resources of each of the parties and the physical and mental capacity of each of them for appropriate gainful employment will be taken into account. I believe that all of clause 75, and what it implies, is a very clear statement of need. I do not think that people should try to impute into it the opposite of what clearly is meant. 
We have to take into account the present law. I wonder how many people have experienced divorce proceedings. I do not want to go too much into my personal situation but my wife was married before and she had 3 children when I married her. Both she and her husband were from very good Christian homes but the marriage broke down. She was deserted and left destitute. I suppose that there were ideas of revenge in her mind and the idea of fault was very strong. But this did absolutely nothing towards helping that marriage. The marriage simply dissolved and it was 5 years before it could be legally dissolved. She had to fend for her children for 5 years. People who say that this Bill will provide quickie divorce and that the present law is just, do not understand how hideous present day divorce cases can be but I do not want to go into that. If someone wants a quickie divorce the present rules make it available. I will not go into examples in too great detail but I know of cases where marriages have been dissolved by the telling of lies and by the use of money. If you have the money, you virtually can buy another man 's wife and get a divorce within 6 weeks. This is being done. Most divorces now are by consent. In fact 95 per cent of most divorces are not contested. Most people remarry and a great percentage of those are happy marriages. In the remaining 5 per cent of cases the fight is not about the sanctity of marriage or Christian ethics, or any of these very desirable things to which we all aspire but know in the real world are pretty difficult to achieve; the fight is about the spoils of the marriage. Too often they are human but at other times, grubbily, they are simply material goods and chattels. 
There are some figures on the concept of quickie divorce. A writer to the 'Sydney Morning . Herald' recently stated that people concerned about the Family Law Bill providing quickie divorces assumed this because the Bill allows dissolution of marriage after 12 months separation. I believe that clauses 48 and 49 are very good aspects of this legislation. People say these things because they do not realise that increasingly quickie divorces are being granted now and in a very horrible way. I would like to cite to the House some statistics. At present there are 14 grounds for dissolution and 4 of them account for 95 per cent of all cases. Desertion requires a waiting period of 2 years before a petition may be filed and separation requires 5 years. No waiting period is required in the case of the other 2 grounds, adultery and cruelty. In the 5 years from 1969 to 1973 inclusive, dissolutions of marriage on the waiting grounds of desertion and separation increased in Australia by 25 per cent and 24 per cent respectively. Dissolutions on the non-waiting grounds of adultery and cruelty increased by 88 per cent and 12 1 per cent respectively. In New South Wales, the increases over the same period were: Desertion 21 per cent, separation 19 per cent, adultery 81 per cent and cruelty 146 per cent. It is obvious that people seeking to end unhappy marriages are using adultery and cruelty as being calculated to get quicker results than desertion and separation. This demonstrates the use of the fault provisions of the present legislation under which faults often are cooked up. 
The use of cruelty as a ground in New South Wales presents a quite preposterous situation. In 1973, in New South Wales, there were 1067 dissolutions of marriage on the ground of cruelty; in Victoria there were 54 such dissolutions. Converting the Victorian figure in terms of the New South Wales population, the comparison becomes 1067 to 72; thereby presuming New South Wales people to be 15 times more cruel in marital relations than Victorians. Of the 1067 New South Wales cruelty dissolutions in that year, excluding joint petitions 49 were granted to men and 1010 were granted to women, making the New South Wales husband appear to be 20 times more cruel than the New South Wales wife. From all this, it must surely be obvious that the present methods of dealing with marital breakdown have failed, and that a simple unified test which would apply in all cases and which would give reasonable, but not too little, opportunity for efforts towards reconciliation where desired, would be infinitely preferable to the present inequitable and chaotic procedures. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-I direct to the Minister for Defence a question which refers to the constant use by the media and by the Opposition of the unqualified catch cry: 'No threat for 10 or 15 years'. Has the Minister ever said bluntly that there is no threat to Australia for the next 10 or 15 years? 
I wish to raise in the grievance debate today the most serious event which has affected me personally during the time I have been in politics. The situation I will outline goes beyond the normal hustle and tussle of politics, beyond hard uncompromising politics and beyond boots and all politics. I am used to the insults of local Liberals. I am used to the arrogance of the New South Wales Premier, who now advises our joint constituents that he will not attend meetings and functions- I instance the Kiama pre-school opening 3 weeks ago- where I or any Federal Government member is speaking, even where joint finance is involved. I have adjusted to the not so subtle pressures applied to local newspaper editors, particularly at election time. This is why I now have a mandate for tyranny by their definition. 
When elected in 1972 I sought an electoral office in the most populous part of my electorate, at Campbelltown. That is one of the largest subdivisions in New South Wales and has almost 17 000 voters. There were few offices readily available and the one chosen in early January 1973 was a first floor one at 100 Queen Street. The lease was for 2 years. There is access to the main street, which is Queen Street, but the office is at the back of the building. Although, l.am listed in the directory in the foyer of the building 
I have been unable to put up the usual gold lettering on a window or a glass door. A small wooden plaque put up disappeared, and as signs on my car while parked in the same town have been destroyed, there seemed little sense in continuing putting one up. 
I have tried to gain other accommodation during the last 2 years, but have been unsuccessful. In January 1975, when the lease expired, I heard that accommodation was available in the centre of town, so I asked an estate agent who is a member of the Australian Labor Party to make preliminary investigations. Offices which he had available were not altogether satisfactory, so he contacted other agents, one of whom had excellent accommodation available on the first floor of a building at 186 Queen Street in the centre of the town facing the street. I contacted the Department of Services and Property to make an inspection and to find out the lease position of my existing office, the lease of which was being renewed monthly. There was contact in January and February and approval was given under delegated authority for a 2-year lease to be taken out on suite 1, 186 Queen Street, on 1 1 February 1975. The usual actions to set up the premises were then taken, but as the lease was for 2 years it was not a registerable contract, and the deal was to be finalised by the payment of rental and an exchange of letters. 
On 15 February 1975 the Liberal Party preselected its candidate for Macarthur and not long afterwards acquired by lease, rent, gift or purchase, accommodation directly below my existing office, but facing Queen Street. The quarters were formerly a restaurant known as the Steakhouse. The premises were set up as a campaign committee room and there was an official opening involving the new member for Pittwater,  Mr Webster.  Apart from the embarrassment of having to tear down all the smiling Bill Snedden posters, the office has functioned smoothly, being manned all the time. Apparently the Campbelltown Liberals thought this to be a master stroke- a coup- the divine right to rule upheld! On the understanding that the lease .was proceeding with my new office the . commencement date of 10 March 1975 had . been determined and rental was paid until 30 April 1975 by the Department. An officer of the Department and my secretary went to the new office on 1 1 March to see what alterations were necessary and were informed by the agent that pressure was being brought to bear on him by local,;Liberals who did not want me to move, or if I '.did move, they wanted to have an office below me again. My secretary and the officer and I dismissed this as a joke. However, a more serious turn of events took place and the agent came under increasing pressure. On one night, I believe he had 25 phone calls. He was socially ostracised, pressured and finally, I believe, blackmailed. The people putting the pressure on included  Mr Green,  the full-time Liberal Party organiser, and members of the Campbelltown elite, including a home unit producer who also lends money and who formerly had a timber business in the town, a well known chemist, a doctor and others whom I see no purpose in naming. 
On 13 March, or thereabouts, the nerve of the agent concerned collapsed and although the cheque did not arrive in his office until Friday, 14 March, he returned the cheque for $244.78 with a letter dated 12 March stating: 'The premises are no longer available due to circumstances beyond our control'. The agent has not come to see me with any information and I am not naming him because he has suffered enough. There are some Liberals who have an idea of a fair go. I shall say no more about that. 
It is strange that an item appeared in the 'Illawarra Mercury' on Friday, 14 March stating that I had moved out of my office and that the Liberals were moving in. The new office- the office I was trying to get- still has not been let. I make no allegations about my opponent's role in this matter. He either knew about it or if he did not he had better express an opinion as to the actions of some of his Campbelltown helpers. The actions of the local Liberals in Campbelltown is not only childish, stupid and smartalecky but also totally wrong in principle. The Department has never heard of this happening before and is seeking the advice of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor on it. I am still seeking different accommodation, but I dare not move lest some other unsuspecting estate agent is to be subject to the same thuggery. I am now thinking of moving to another town, but I am wondering whether the Liberal Party will again use the same tactics. The office is not for me personally, as a dreaded Labor person, thereby involving the loss of image which has been quoted for the Campbelltown elite, but for the people of Macarthur, for whom the Liberal Party has no respect. In fact, two-thirds of the representations I make are made on behalf of Liberal voters. I am going to have to ask the people of Macarthur whether they wish me to have an office in Campbelltown or, for that matter, in the electorate. The office I now hold is only held subject to a one-monthly renewal; so what security of tenure do I or does the Department of Services and Property hold? The office is not for me personally and is no different from offices leased by other Australian government departments throughout the electorate. I regard this example of Liberal stupidity, arrogance and blackmail as very serious and I ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to look into the matter. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Who decides the terms and conditions of service awards in theatres of war. 
Can a government change these terms and conditions retrospectively. 
What is taken into account when deciding on awards in terms of time in a hostile zone. 
Is it a fact that awards are not made for service in areas of intense military activity before a certain time yet other servicemen may receive awards in zones of non-hostility or in non-combatant roles after a required time; if so, why? 
-They tell me that economics is the dismal science. I think we would all agree that the economic speech just made by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  was very dismal indeed. I will not engage in much discussion about the economic situation in Australia at present. However, I point out to honourable members that it was about this time last year that the Government was thinking of introducing a very tough Budget indeed. Then it was persuaded by all the economic wisdom in the country and by the Opposition that that simply was not on. It seems that we are going to have a repeat of that whole situation. Whether it was intended to cut back government spending to the extent required to cure the problems in the economy by means of one Budget or two Budgets, I think we would be left with just as many problems in areas of the economy other than employment and investment. It seems to me that until we can get more consensus in the economy we will not lick this problem. There are many aspects of the inflationary problem to which many people can contribute just as long as there is some consensus in the community. I was very happy to hear some Opposition members trying to be constructive and trying to give the people of this country some guide as to those areas in which they see, from their point of view, that there is a possibility of consensus. Likewise I have heard many comments from the Government side in relation to this matter. I wish to heck we could take it out of the party political context, because too often we seem to be repeating the same old cliches; too often we adopt the other fellow's cliches and the arguments become circulatory. 
Rather than talk about the dismal things- I have been dismal all week- I thought I would get on to some of the joyful things. I am very lucky- I am privileged in a way- in that I represent a part of Australia in which the 
Government's programs are having a very positive effect and in which real progress is being made in terms of some of the objectives which in 1972 the Government was elected to carry out. Recently I addressed a seminar at the Royal Institute of Public Administration. I spoke on the Parliament and the Public Service and I said that in many ways the Department of Urban and Regional Development resembled a religion more than a department. I was referring, of course, to the very open and very flexible way in which the officers of that Department have gone about working in a very complex area- an area involving 3 levels of government, an area involving many concepts about planning, an area involving many community attitudes. I am rather overjoyed that the Department has pursued its work more by way of a religion than in the traditional manner of constantly referring to files which is adopted by most departments. So I stand in praise of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
I stand in praise of the Department particularly in regard to its breakthrough on 11 December 1974 when it reached agreement with the New South Wales Government. That agreement was the culmination of many months of quiet negotiation with such born negotiators as  Sir Robert  Askin and  Mr Tom  Lewis. It was, I think, quite a credit to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  because he quietly negotiated his way through to agreement rather than trying to drag the New South Wales Government to the cash box. The whole concept of development in the CampbelltownCamdenAppin area- it is now called the southwest sector- is not the creation of the Labor Party, of course. The State Planning Authority has been talking about this area as being one of the prime areas of growth in the Sydney area since way back in the early 1960s, and it brought out its report on Sydney 2000 in about 1965 or 1966, I think. So Campbelltown and the whole south-west area was clearly designated. The Australian Government simply added the HolsworthyMenai area. So the Australian Government is simply fleshing out the bones of the plans of the State Government. 
The agreement which was reached and signed in February of this year in fact consisted of 6 agreements which will provide something like $73,927,000 to New South Wales for urban and regional development programs in 1974-75. Under the agreements financial assistance is given to programs in New South Wales under the following headings: National Sewerage Program, $42m; Urban Land Council, $ 10,400,000; a specific allocation to the south-west sector, which is the Campbelltown-Holsworthy area, $1Om area improvement programs, $5,500,000; Bathurst-Orange regional development project, $5m; and the National Estate program, $1,027,000. All those programs, with the exception of the Bathurst-Orange development project and the area improvement programs, directly involve the area which I have the privilege to represent. Of the $ 10m which will be made available in 1974-75 to the Interim Development Authority for Sydney's south-west sector, $7.5m will be used for land acquisition, and $5m of that amount will be used for acquiring land for urban use. The remainder will be used for acquiring open space land in the Camden Park Estate. As honourable members will be aware the Camden Park Estate contains probably Australia's most historic, and most important architecturally, homestead. The amount of money required for the acquisition of the Camden Park Estate will be made available by way of a non-repayable grant which will represent two-thirds of the total cost of the acquisition. So all these plans are going to come to fruition. There are problems in that the agreements have been signed a little late in the day. 
The Australian Government insisted that a proper development corporation be set up, and it was also insistent that its programs be mapped out in terms of modern planning principles and that the 4 local government authorities concerned have representation among the 8 commissioners who would run the corporation in terms of its administration or policy formation. The corporation would have to encompass a structure with sufficient power and autonomy to run an effective planning development, promotional and land management operation. The corporation also needs to be powerful enough to coordinate all levels of government as well as private and public investment. It will also require very substantial financial resources to ensure the attainment of planning and development goals and a high standard of services and environment. 
Of the $10m to which I referred earlier, the $2.5m which I have not nominated will go immediately this year to some quite vital projects in the various industrial and district areas in the south-west sector. For example, in the MintoIngleburn industrial area an amount of $425,000 will be spent this year on roads and bridges; $482,000 will be spent on water supply and sewerage; $ 1 50,000 will be spent on the extension of electricity services; $436,000 will be spent on flood mitigation works; and $1 12,000 will be spent on landscaping. In the Minto and Badgally districts the same sort of projects will amount to $1 17,000, and in the Campbelltown city centre about $748,000 will be spent, some of it on the very basic infrastructural work for the new city centre which will be on the site of the present golf course. 
All in all the State Government seems to be cooperating very well and putting up programs that are totally integrated. By doing this the Australian Government can assist by way of finance in the knowledge that the money will be well spent. It is exceptionally important that the 3 levels of government can agree as to the proper planning proposals. What we must stress is that if the whole basic infrastructure of the south west sector is set out in terms of these planning concepts, in the long run we will have all the services provided a lot more cheaply. That is the reason why we can now start phasing in the other Australian Government departments which are involved in the development of this area which hopes to have a population of about 500 000 by the turn of the century. This is why we can now talk with some certainty about a university being started there in 1978. This is why we can talk with some certainty about the likelihood of an Australian Government office block being built there. Even today officers from the Department of Services and Property are working in the area. Already the New South Wales Government, after a little cajoling, has agreed to a public hospital being built in the area. The New South Wales Government already has agreed to our financing of the Bradbury community health centre, the one at Leumeah and the major one being built now in the centre of Campelltown 
One needs to realise that in Campbelltown there still are real deficiencies. A recent report showed that there is a deficiency of doctors, dentists and lawyers- the professional people- in growing areas such as Campbelltown. For example, the report showed that a wealthy municipality like Woollahra in Sydney has 133 doctors, 66 dentists and 31 solicitors' officers while the outer region of Campbelltown has 9 doctors, 10 dentists and 5 solicitors' offices. In terms of the number of doctors per 100 000 population, Campbelltown is in the worst 10 areas in New South Wales, having 26 doctors per 100 000 population. The Campbelltown City Council also is working exceptionally well in the context of the 3 levels of government and planning is going on there with respect to the schools program. At Minto, Ingleburn, and soon at Leumeah, we Will have integrated community centres involving the schools program. The only other thing I would like to mention is the community radio station which will allow all the people in this area to have a direct voice in the planning proposals that are affecting them. By this medium they will be able to express their opinion on many of the very wonderful things that are happening. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Dr Cass)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition speaking for a period not exceeding 30 minutes. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister seen recent statements on Australia's military aid to Indonesia by the Opposition's spokesman on defence, the honourable member for Moreton? What is the true situation with respect to our aid to Indonesia, particularly regarding the provision of patrol boats? 
We have just listened to two confused speeches from the Opposition, one noted for its attempt to combine humour with defence and the other noted for its fears, sums and erroneous claims. We have all heard some of these stories before. Surely we could argue that the tension between China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is a sign of peace for South-East Asia, for if these two great countries are in conflict how are they going to combine to subvert South-East Asia in a communist campaign? Rather, it could be just as well argued that it will allow the Association of South-East Asian Nations room to manoeuvre. We again heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speaking about sums. He invited the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  to do more sums. Roughly, what the Minister for Defence has been saying is that in 1971-72 $ 1,200m was spent on defence and this year the figure was $ 1,800m, a 50 per cent increase since December 1972. In that time the increase in the consumer price index has been of the order of 36 per cent. They are the sums of the Minister for Defence. 
Since the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has been the shadow Minister for Defence I have listened with great interest to anything that he has said, to anything that could possibly be instructive, decisive, intelligent or inspired. Knowing his way of referring to historical events I did not really expect to get from him the lessons of Pearl Harbour. I expected to get the lessons of the Peloponnesian Wars, for example. Instead we got Pitt. We have been listening with interest, but I am afraid that all we on this side of the House have so far heard has been incoherent, innocuous or irrelevant. In fact I am disgusted at some of his comments which reflect on our armed forces today. I am just as disgusted to hear the comments of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  When the Minister for Defence said that he had been going up and down the country telling the Australian people of the virtues of our defence forces, the honourable member for Riverina replied: 'That would not take you long'. That is a rather poor reflection on our defence services, particularly from a man who was a member of them. Where is the analysis from the honourable member for Moreton? Where are the facts? Where is the definition? Where is the coherence? 
The Leader of the Opposition is very evasive every time he is questioned about how much he would spend on defence. He excuses himself from the necessity to increase expenditure on defence because by so doing he would really be admitting the failures of the Liberal-Country Party government in its last years in office. If it will be 5 to 8 years, as he claims, before any equipment that is ordered will appear in the defence vote, it must equally be the case that if expenditure is not in the defence vote at present it is the result of policies of 4 to 8 years ago. This is what has happened. The reason why the Government is not spending more on major capital equipment items at present is a direct result to the failure of the Liberal-Country Party government to place these orders 4 or 5 years ago. In March 1970 when he was Minister for Defence, the Leader of the Opposition presented to the Parliament a shopping list of defence items. This occurred directly as the result of the loss of support suffered by the Liberal-Country Party coalition in the 1969 elections and the threatened withdrawal of the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party unless the government showed a tougher line on defence. Many items in this piece of window dressing never saw the tight of day. The DDL project was so badly handled that it was no longer practicable for Australia's defence. Orders for light observation helicopters were trimmed and orders for utility helicopters were later slashed. The order for 1 1 helicopter gunships was cancelled outright. The order for the cargo logistics ship disappeared. This situation will soon be rectified by the Labor Government. 
Obviously, from the vagueness of the statements made by the Opposition speakers, one has to look at the Opposition's performance in government to see its real attitude to defence. In 1969, when the country was still embroiled in Vietnam,  Mr Fairhall  cut the defence vote by 5 per cent in real terms. Expenditure declined from $1,1 64m to $ 1,104m- and this was at the height of our Vietnam involvement. The then Minister for Defence had the hide to justify that cut by saying: 'The forces are now better equipped than they have ever been in peace time. ' That was 'peace time', although we were embroiled in Vietnam. When looking for budget economies, 
Liberal-Country Party governments have not been slow to choose the defence vote as their first target. In February 1971 the cut in Government expenditure as an anti-inflationary measure saw the defence vote receive the first and largest cut. From a total of $75.5m cut from Government expenditure, the defence vote cut was $2 1.5m. Can there be any doubt, in view of the vague and evasive defence policies being articulated, Particularly last Monday night by the Leader of the Opposition, where the burden again would fall under a Liberal-Country Party government program to reduce government expenditure? As I asked earlier with respect to the honourable member for Moreton, the shadow Minister for Defence, where was his analysis today? where were his facts? 
I asked the Parliamentary Library for some Press clippings on the honourable member's past glorious record when he was Minister for the Navy. I found a virtual Pandora's Box. There was reference to Captain J. B. Stevenson, who had to resign from the Navy because the Minister would not defend him. We had his analysis of the Vietnam war in December 1970. A Press clipping I have here states: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What progress has been made with respect to the provision of funds for an Aboriginal culture centre in Nowra. 
Are the 1968 Scott Report recommendations the main reason for the funding of this scheme or has more evidence been put forward. 
When can the Shoalhaven Shire Council expect funds for its part in the project. 
Have the elements of design, contracting and future function of the centre been clearly denned. 
What sum has been paid out in relation to the centre, for what purposes, and to whom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many ex-servicemen are receiving repatriation benefits as a result of poison gas/chemical warfare experiments during World War II. 
Have any ex-servicemen come forward claiming repatriation benefits as a result of recent publicity on the poison gas/chemical warfare experiments. 
Is there any requirement of secrecy by the Department of Defence which would make impartial consideration of these repatriation claims impossible or difficult. 
Is there any classification of servicemen taking part in the experiments as "guinea-pigs". 
If so, are repatriation benefits related in any way to the term "guinea-pigs ' '. 
Are any ex-servicemen receiving benefits due to them having been rendered totally disabled by the experiments. 
Does the Minister receive full co-operation from the Minister for Defence in matters of repatriation claims with regard to the experiments at an official level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with respect to the provision of housing for Aboriginals in the Nowra area. 
-On Monday of this week, the Cabinet concurred with the findings of the Industries Assistance Commission on the mushroom industry. The reference was sent to the IAC on 8 March following a Temporary Assistance Authority reference. The report was completed by 17 December 1974. Since that time, the report has been debated by the industry, various government departments and finally an interdepartmental committee. Two commissioners conducted the inquiry by the IAC, both of whom agreed to a recommendation of a 25 per cent duty and a dollar for dollar research subsidy. But one of the commissioners dissented from the recommendation of the IAC by proposing that imports should be restricted for 3 years to enable the local industry to assess the practicability of entering the market for mushrooms canned in brine. Up to this stage, the industry has conducted all its own research, has engaged in various measures of product development and at this time is pursuing funds through the Australian Industries Development Corporation. 
The main source of imports has been mushrooms in brine as champignons and the rate of importation has shown a rapid and continuous growth. The Industries Assistance Commission says that these imports do not compete with mushrooms canned in butter sauce which is the usual product in Australia as these have their own market. The Commission said: . . . any competitive threat which they pose is to fresh mushrooms, but the extent of this competition is at present marginal. 
The IAC in its report points to the industry's problems over a long period. These include the problem of over-production, particularly in the mid 1960s, which provoked the Tariff Board reference of 1968 and the early 1970s. At that time, 1 968, there were about 230 farmers in the industry. At present there are about 120 farmers. 
The report does not mention in any detail the effects of the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut or the currency revaluation of the past 2 years. Let me quote, however, from the 1968 Tariff Board report which gives a fair historical background of the industry. It says: 
The major part of demand in Australia for mushrooms is for mushrooms in butter sauce, practically all locally produced, the next most important part being for champignon-type mushrooms in brine, almost all imported. The extent of competition between these 2 products was limited and difficult to assess. 
The nitty gritty of the argument within the industry is on the level of competition between imports in brine and some dehydrated frozen mushrooms and with the local product which is in butter sauce. 
The 1974 Temporary Assistance Authority report also took issue on this very point. The Australian Mushroom Growers Association requested temporary assistance against all imported mushrooms and mushroom products, but later withdrew its request in respect of fresh and dried mushrooms. Although the Australian Mushroom Growers Association claimed that there was competition from imports of frozen mushrooms, the Temporary Assistance Authority concluded that estimates made of the quantities of frozen mushrooms to be imported during 1974 did not indicate a critical position. The Authority considered that the local canning industry was clearly experiencing difficulty with import competition in marketing mushrooms in brine but this product represented Utile more than 3 per cent of domestic production. The nature and extent of competition between the traditional Australian pack of mushrooms in butter sauce and imported mushrooms in brine was far from clear. So, the Authority eventually concluded that there were insufficient grounds to warrant special temporary assistance. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred the whole matter to the Industries Assistance Commission as, not long after this report there was evidence of firms in the industry going broke. I must state that I have great doubts about the findings particularly on the proposition by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority that there is no competition between the imported product and what is largely produced in Australia. However, I say at the outset that I support the principles of the Temporary Assistance Authority, the Industries Assistance Commission and other semiindependent or independent bodies such as the Prices Justification Tribunal. I do not think government departments should be clients for industry. I think there is a need for such organisations to exist so that an independent, overall look can be given to industry in general from the whole community point of view. At the same time, the Government must have the power to override decisions by such bodies when there are sufficient and necessary political reasons to do so. 
This is a very small industry. I am most concerned that by subjecting this industry to a whole series of hoops and hurdles in a very independent objective manner working from statisticsstatistics in the case of the IAC report which were considered in September 1974- we have a situation where an industry can see something clearly ahead for itself and yet with all the will in the world the public servants and the commissioners looking at the industry are in no position to predict accurately what is going to occur. I trunk the industry and many members of this House have a better idea of what is going to occur in terms of human behaviour, business expectations and business behaviour. 
As I said, the mushroom industry is a small industry. There are only 120 growers. There are no votes in it. There are 5 mushroom growers in my electorate and a few more growers in the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  I can only conclude that because there are no votes in the industry the Opposition has not taken this matter up. I am pleased that the Opposition spokesman on manufacuring industry, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  is sitting at the table. Perhaps he can inform us why he has not brought this matter to the attention of the House. Up to this time no other country has been able to grow a mature mushroom and most of the competition to mushroom production in Australia has come from imported champignons. They are the very small mushrooms. We have been producing them in butter sauce. 
Previous figures have indicated that there is a market structure of 2 separate components. I point out that the Australian industry has been exceptionally efficient. For example, in 1964, when the labour cost was approximately 70c an hour, the price to the local canners was 34c per lb. In 1975, when labour costs are $2.41 an hour, the price to the canners is only 40c per lb. The growers, in presenting their case, say that the IAC is expressing very incorrect views. As I have already mentioned, they are saying that imported mushrooms in brine compete with the local fresh mushrooms and mushrooms in butter sauce. Australian mushroom growers can produce a champignon type mushroom, or button mushroom, as we call it here. They dispute the proposition that import figures are falling every month. I will give figures to support their claim. They are also saying that imported champignons in brine are in direct competition with Australian fresh mushrooms. In February 1974 92 2 10 kilos of mushrooms were imported into Australia. In February 1975 732 433 kilos were imported into Australia. There has been a dramatic increase in imports in January and February this year. There have been more imports in the first 8 months of this financial year than in all of last year. Even if we accept the figures at which the IAC was looking as perfectly accurate and correct and if even more recent figures have been properly assessed, I think we can now say, looking to the future, that this industry will be in very big trouble and that there will be a need for it to put another case and go through another hoop and over another hurdle to prove disruption to its industry and to show how badly it is affected. Of the 5 growers in my electorate, one is out of production, one is in receivership, two are producing about 70 per cent of their normal production, and I have not been in contact with the other fellow lately. One can say, although one cannot prove it, that the local canned output figure for example, includes a figure for frozen mushrooms being repacked under Australian labels. Bulk frozen mushrooms coming into Australia are also being labelled by local firms. I have with me some of the labels of firms which we accept as being local producers. I will not say that they are actually deceptive. For example, the label on an Edgell's product says: 'Product of Taiwan'. The labels of other firms- I will not give the names- say: 'Packed in Australia' rather than where the mushrooms come from. Others just simply do not say where they come from at all. The growers really have no way of finding how much of the imported product, which they say and which I say is mixable, is going into the local cans and products. 
Many of the growers' contracts will expire at the end of this month. So far the canners have not been talking in terms of price or quantity. The growers say that it is only a matter of time before sliced mushrooms will be brought into this country and the canneries will simply become importers. We really do not know how much the consumers are benefiting from the cheaper imports in any case. So I still say that unfortunately this argument is not over for the mushroom industry. It is unfortunate that the industry will have to come up with more facts and figures, but I would like the Government to know that there is a large body of people in this House who feel that the procedures through which this industry is going have proved unsatisfactory, that there are grounds for real debate and that we need to know a lot more about the matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Acting Treasurer inform the House of the increase in moneys paid to the States over the last 2 years? Are these increases less or more than increases in the consumer price index and wage rates? Are any figures available on the proportion of the increase which is represented by Federal initiatives? 
We have j just heard from one of the greatest actors of the Twenty-ninth Parliament. I believe the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  appeared for many years on behalf of his Party in other redistribution hearings. Perhaps he justified with equal verve, panache and acting ability the redistributions of 1 968 when 3 Sydney members lost their seats- the seats of KingsfordSmith, West Sydney and East Sydney, Watson, Grayndler and Dalley were pushed into 2 seats and the Labor Party lost 3 seats at that time. If one wants to worry about losing seats, it is pretty easy to look back at the other redistributions of the last Government to see exactly the same sort of tactics, only applied more ruthlessly. 
The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  gave an example of the sneaky sort of proposals the Liberal Party of Australia put up for the redistribution. Earlier tonight we had the leader of the NCP-I think the 'N' stands for national, this new CP, the NCP; anyway, the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  enter the chamber to make a speech. He did not have the guts to put in a submission to the Electoral Commissioners. How the heck can any one get up on his hind legs and come in here and bleat about the unfairness of the redistribution when he did not have the courage of his convictions even to put an argument. The Leader of the National Country Party talked about the Division of Macarthur. I resent anyone talking about that beautiful electorate. 
The problem in Macarthur is that all the Labor votes are in the northern end of it. In a State like New South Wales, with all the population centred in the cities, any redistribution must be definition work outwards from the city centres of Newcastle, Sydney and Wollogong and from the borders in. The problem of Macarthur is that the city is expanding into the electorate. If we are to avoid the situation of having 100 000 voters in the electorate at the next election- if the mates of the honourable members opposite in the Senate knock this Bill off- the only possibility for the Distribution Commissioners to cut the numbers down is to remove some of the southern part of the electorate. That is why the position looks so good for me at present. I have a vested interest in both sides of this argument. It really does not matter. If I have 100 000 voters there at the next election, that will suit me fine. 
I suppose we could have a proper discussion about what is involved in electoral redistribution and what is involved in a whole series of electoral matters- what is involved in the very principle of representation. The last thing that is discussed in debates on redistribution is the concept of representation. I remind honourable members opposite that it is people who vote, not boundaries; that it is people who vote, not areas; and what democracy is about is people. That seems to be rather fundamental and straightforward to me, but we have all these sorts of red herrings always thrown into the debates. 
I have never taken part in one of these redistribution debates before. I always thought they were good fun, but they are pretty boring because all the arguments have been thrashed out. It reminds me of being back in the high school days debating whether comics send one silly, or capital punishment. Earlier tonight one of my colleagues was reminding me of the debates in the eleventh century by the theologian Duns Scotus, who debated how many angels could dance on the point of a pin. These debates seem to be about as relevant at times. But these sorts of debates on redistribution are a set piece game. We always have the Opposition versus the Government. Whenever one is in government one is wicked and when one is in Opposition one is virtuous. The same old arguments are trotted out. 
Of course the Opposition ignores the shocking example of its State colleagues and also often brings in these theories that the Commissioners are corrupt. We must dispute this from the word 'go'. Thank God the Leader of the NCP at least admitted that the Commissioners were not corrupt, but he said that perhaps the laws were corrupt. Governments set up the laws, and I suppose all governments set up laws to favour themselves marginally. We have been moral enough to set them up to favour us marginally, whereas the last government required the Commissioners to favour country areas. A magnificent editorial in the 'Age', which I hope to read out later, has pointed this out. This redistribution was based simply on people and a margin of 10 per cent up or down. That was it. For the first time we are looking at the situation of allowing people to vote. I suppose that the honourable member for Bennelong is pretty honest when he says that what the argument is all about is seats. The reason why the debate hots up and becomes rather humorous is that we are all worried about our seats. 
But the opposition of the National Country Party- except in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania, and it is trying to get rid of the Liberals in Queensland- is purely ideological. It opposes the redistribution in South Australia and Tasmania when it does not even have a member in those States. This is typical of a sectional party. It never looks at the contradictions in its own case. It simply maximises a simple proposition. If one says that the Labor Government is centralist, socialist or anti-rural for long enough, in some Geobbels-like manner, eventually the people will believe it. This morning we had the National Country Party members grizzling about the Labor Government, in favouring school children and other groups, favouring people in the cities; yet by its own definition, by its own rules of the game as a sectional party- it should accept the verdict once in a while- all it is doing is looking after its own sectional interests. The Labor Party is not pursuing only its own sectional interests. Even if all our support is supposed to reside in the cities, we try to govern nationally. The Liberal Party does, too; but it cannot manage without the support of the National Country Party. 
Let us look at some of the statements of the Leader of the National Country Party. We have from him the same old tirade about a vendetta against country voters, those poor persecuted people- and his country electorate is smaller than mine. Where does the Leader of the National Country Party live? Quite sensibly, he lives in Canberra most of the time. Where does the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  live? Quite sensibly, he lives in Canberra most of the time. Where do I live? I live in Canberra, too. We cannot argue in terms of space and physical characteristics. My colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  who sits next to me, with an electorate of possibly 30 square miles, is probably far worse off than the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  with his thousands of square miles, because the honourable member for Perth spends 2 days a week flying backwards and forwards between his electorate and Canberra, and there is no way one can reach someone in an aeroplane. 
I appear there often. The only way we can argue about this physical situation is in terms of how one's electorate is shaped topographically or how one is affected by the transport network. It seems to me that the only way we can talk of boundaries is in terms of the physical attributes of an electorate. We hear about these big electorates. I have flown over some of them. I spent 3 days flying over the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and I did not see one person, except at the 2 places where I got off the aeroplane. I have seen the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  It is a very big electorate, but there are no people in the damn thing. 
There are no people in most of it; they are all in the big mining towns in some of these electorates. The problem of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and the honourable member for Kennedy is a lack of resources. They do not need fewer voters; they need more resources to enable them to get to their people. 
That would be fine; but I do not believe that the city members should have the same allowance. We all have letters and telephones to help us. This Government is setting up regional offices. There is nothing magical about people being able to see their member physically. Anyone who wants to knock me on the head or really take up a grievance has no problem finding me. The way the Public Service acts, the people these days have much more redress there than they have from many other people in the community who serve them, in business and whatever. What honourable members opposite are doing in talking of representation is ignoring the question of responsiveness. It does not matter how many voters one has. There is no correlation between that number and responsiveness. This centres exactly and individually on the member himself. If he has a massive majority, perhaps he does not work as hard; but it does not necessarily follow. Perhaps the members in the marginal seats work the hardest; but that does not necessarily follow either. 
My simple proposition is that democracy cannot be diluted. One man, one vote is the ideal. This redistribution accepts and acknowledges that this ideal is difficult to attain, but it is the fairest redistribution we have seen in this House. The 10 per cent variation up or down comes nearest to the ideal. The Distribution Commissioners have been set this formula, have gone about their task of looking at each electorate individually and have come up with a fair redistribution. The Melbourne 'Age' succinctly set out the situation when it said this morning: 
The Liberals opt for electoral folly. 
They have not the wit or the wisdom to see the virtue in the redistribution. Let me return to the electorate of Macarthur. Perhaps I can outline the problems of running a seat which is increasing so fast in population and voters. The reason why I have to drive 30 000 or 40 000 miles a year is that there are more and more voters in the electorate. In 1969, when I was the campaign director for my friend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  there were 5 1 276 voters in the electorate. In 1972, when I was privileged to win the seat, there were 63 952 voters in the electorate. Eighteen months later, in 1974, there were 75 844 electors. Now there are nearly 8 1 000 people enrolled. If there is no election until 1977, I will have 100 000 electors by then. I do not for the life of me know why I should be required to represent 100 000 people while my friend the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  represents 53 000, the honourable member for Hume represents 50 000 and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  represents only 47 000. If they have problems due to a large component of new Australians or Aborigines or if they have problems due to the population of their electorates being centred in one spot in some vast expanse of desert, quite clearly they need more facilities. That is the way I argued before the Remuneration Tribunal. Members of this Parliament do not need more money; they need more facilities. 
At the last census the population of the electorate of Macarthur was 1 1 6 000; it is now probably 145 000. It has one of the highest young populations in Australia. In 1971 there were more than 42 000 children of school age or younger; in other words, well over one-third of the populations. I am not grizzling, but there are 4 separate groups of interests in the electorate. There are some places where I get 83 per cent of the vote; there are other places I go through only at 2 o'clock at night. This is the way the electorate is. I do not grizzle about it, but it is a difficult electorate to work- not because of its size or physical attributes, but because there are so many people flooding into it. It has 6 State members, including the State Premier whom I will swap with anyone. There are 2 television stations, 2 radio stations, 15 local newspapers and 9 local government areas. It is expanding at a rate of knots. Its population will double in the space of 8 years. 
I suggest with respect to this redistribution that what we are talking about is democracy, and democracy cannot be diluted. There are problems in gaining access to electors in some electorates, and more facilities should be provided in such cases. If we want to have a proper debate on representation and what is involved in it, we need to go back through history and study the way our system has developed to this day. In the old days we had politics and representation only in terms of interest. That is the National Country Party approach. Then we had the representation of opinions, and the fine theory of the 19th century and earlier was upset by the emergence of political parties. 
If we look at political parties and relate them to representation, we can come up with a wide range of theories. There is a theory about the representation of personal influence which involves unduly individualistic assumptions about the nature of society. There are theories about the inevitability of class conflict. There are theories about the representation of sectional interests and these fail to show how policies reflecting the national interest can emerge in any sort of society. There are theories about the representation of personal opinions which involve a host of practical and intellectual difficulties. There are theories about the functions of representative government in eliciting the common will of society, but those theories are somewhat vague and optimistic. There are theories justifying party discipline and the idea of electoral mandate which involve some dubious assumptions at times about the knowledge and behaviour of electors and the possibility of keeping to long term plans for government action. At this time, given our history and our concepts of democracy- I might say that the people in Portuguese Timor have better ideas of democracy than many of the members on the other side of the House- this is the best son of electoral redistribution which we could present. I congratulate the Distribution Commissioners. I commend the motion to the House. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether his attention has been drawn to a statement in the Press attributed to Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek, which reads: 
By 1990 the Australian forces would have 6 submarines whose average age would be 21 years, 3 guided-missile destroyers with an average age of 25 years, 2 destroyer escorts and a destroyer tender averaging 22 years, 24 Fin aircraft 20 years old, 2 patrol frigates and 8 long-range patrol aircraft. 
Will the Minister say whether or not this is an accurate assessment of the state of the equipment of our defence forces? 
-! seek leave to make a short statement. 
Unfortunately I was not able to attend the last meetings of the committee when the report was drafted. I was overseas when the final draft and the dissenting report were prepared and completed. Also, I was not able to read the report or the dissenting report before publication. I find that I dissent from both the report and the dissenting report but my dissent is moderate. 
I am pleased to learn of the reformist attitude of the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  on this matter. This sort of spirit of reform is matched by the attitude of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is at the table. For a long time he has been one of the champions of the wool industry. It is good to see him in the chamber today guiding these Bills through the House.  His  actions today stem from his long experience at Currabubula, up in the bush. We understand that he is one of the greatest fighters for the wool industry that this Cabinet has ever seen. I say that the honourable member for New England has a reformist attitude because it seems that the Labor Government has shown the Opposition what should be the policies for the wool industry and he agrees with them. They certainly were not policies that the National Country Party, when in a coalition government with the Liberal Party, could carry out or did carry out. The sort of measures they offered to the wool industry were rather half-hearted. In fact, they never did any of the things for which they now profess so much support. 
The Opposition went to great lengths to point out some of the problems we have had over the last few days in respect to some aspects of the legislation. But, of course, this does not match in any way the sort of hassles we used to have with the previous Government. Firstly, the National Country Party used to have a hassle with the Liberal Party. Then it had to square off the position with the Democratic Labor Party. When any crunch issue arose we had a situation exemplified by the position that arose in 197 1 when there was a 3-day lock in the Cabinet because the 2 parties really could not trust each other. That is the sort of policy formation that went on in the good old days, as the honourable member for New England would have us believe they were. 
These Bills do have a minor relationship to events that took place in Caucus last week but I was rather aghast to see so much misinterpretation of what these measures are all about. First of all there was the misinterpretation by the city Press that still continues because it simply does not understand the mechanism of the price scheme we have in the wool market and it will not be educated. The city Press likes to portray this scheme to the urban voters as some vast means whereby the taxpayers are supporting the wool industry. There is another version of the story in the Press which I was aghast to see. It said that Caucus had collapsed before the pressure of the mob of 500 or 600 people who had a great interest in this matter and who demonstrated outside Parliament House. This was absolute nonsense. The reverse was the case. There are other people who want no guaranteed price for wool at all. They do not want any intervention in the market. This is the sort of line adopted by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I was quite fascinated to see him on a television interview last night more or less saying that he definitely would not have a bar of any government intervention in the wool market. 
The city Press may not understand the situation because it has not really gone into what the wool industry is all about but the Leader of the National Country  (Mr Anthony)  does understand the position. Yet last week we had a surprising situation. He was speaking to the mob in front of Parliament House and waving his arms. He said that somehow or other the Government collapsed under the pressure of the National Country Party or that all the credit for the reversal of the decision was due to him. This would be something like the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  racing out to address a mob of trade unionists and telling them, for instance, that the opposition of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the insertion of penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act had collapsed because of the demonstration by those trade unionists. There was another matter at which I was aghast- the leak in regard to the deliberations of the Cabinet. I thought that this was a particularly bad matter. It must concern all people in the Public Service and in the Parliament that leaks of such an important nature can occur. This leak was preceded by just as important a leak and one that may have had some impact on the thinking of some of the Cabinet Ministers. I refer to the leak in respect to the inter-departmental report on the Australian Wool Corporation's report on wool marketing. Some have said that this leak had all the hallmarks of a Treasury inspired leak but I would not Uke to make any accusations about any particular area on this matter. 
I want to state again that I deplore some of the reporting surrounding this leak on the interdepartmental committee. The fact is with respect to this matter that the Corporation is already committed to a capital expenditure of over $400m in the coming season and will certainly not get by with less expenditure in the season ahead. So there is no need to express great horror at a figure of $600m. The inference that was drawn that worried me was that the cost of the support will not be recovered. This is also misleading and is a downright untruth. The suggestion that the matter should be referred to another Industries Assistance Commission hearing is a red herring. The industry is not asking for assistance. It is merely requesting a guarantee that will help it minimise the risk to wool growers, the industry and the Government in the event of potential but unrealised losses. The interdepartmental report which I have not had the privilege of seeing but which was reported in the Press seems to be full of doubts about the Corporation's ability to make accurate judgments and to reduce price fluctuations. It is reported that it is wary of the concept of acquisition and that it has other doubts. I think that when the contents of such reports are leaked so thoroughly to the Press, which seems to be able to see such reports, we should be given the benefit of seeing the report concerned or of being given some sort of counter statement. I think that this action is deplorable. I thank honourable members opposite for also expressing their disgust at these sorts of things that are going on. 
I was even more worried last week to see some of the claims being made by the Leader of the National Country Party in a television interview. During a television debate with  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture, the Leader of the National Country Party seemed to imply that the wool scheme was something that he had initiated. He implied that the wool scheme was something that the Country Party had set up and for which the Country Party had been fighting all along. Quite the reverse is true. The genesis of the events surrounding the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission, leading on to the Australian Wool Corporation and the present pOliCy, needs to be put on the record. The previous Wool Commission was established on 4 November 1970. It began operating a flexible reserve price scheme on 16 November 1970. Until the Christmas recess in wool auctions that year the Commission operated a flexible reserve price structure set somewhat below the ruling market prices. After an initial rise in what was a very depressed market at that time, prices again began to slide downwards immediately before Christmas. Prior to the resumption of auctions on 11 January 1971 the Commission announced that it would 'adopt a firmer policy' in its reserve price operations. Although the level was not announced, the Commission pegged its reserves at closing pre-Christman market level- about 29c a lb or 64c a kilogram greasy- and held them for the remainder of the season at that level. I think that over the season it worked out to exactly 29.6c per lb. 
In effect the Commission at that time put a floor in the market. The former Minister for Primary Industry, now the Leader of the National Country Party, subsequently announced that he fully supported the Commission's decision but did not say that it had the Government 's support. I touched on the reason for this a while ago when I said that it was impossible to get support from the Liberal Party. The Government did allow the Commission to operate this firm floor price until the end of the season in June 1971 and subsequently in the new season. However, explicit public expression of Government approval does not appear to have been issued. A while ago the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was saying that the Government should make statements in the House and should have debates on this matter. He said that it was not proper for Government announcements to be made outside this place.  His  Government did not do that except on rare occasions, because the Government could not reach agreement in many of the instances under question. In a public statement on 30 July 1971 the honourable member for New England stated only that when the new season opened in August the Commission would continue to be supported by the Government in its market operations on the same basis as in the past season, subject to regular reports and review by the Government on its purchases and buying limits. That statement was not made in the House. When marketing resumed after the December 1971 Christmas break, the process of strong recovery started, which led to the Commission's being able almost immediately to commence disposal of stocks on a rising market. 
Let me refer to some of the funds that have been available to the Commission. This Government has been criticised because it has given out so much money, yet the Country Party seems to be claiming that it stood by the Commission and gave it massive funds. There was an initial loan from the banks of $34m and a subsequent stand-by loan of $30m. The moneys advanced by the Government were as follows: There was a new loan of $ 12m to the Commission for working capital. The 1971-72 Budget provided for a further $10rh. In November 1971 the Government announced that an additional $30m would be provided by the Government 'if necessary to enable the Commission to continue its present reserve price policies'. In the event, the Commission did not need to draw on this loan. Very happily, the stocks were cleared. 
So the previous Government committed about $22m. The rest was arranged through the banks. This Government has been prepared to put $350m on the line, plus other moneys, with a proper guarantee to the wool market. That is the big difference. This Government does not have a deficiency payments scheme. It does not have a half-hearted scheme. It has a proper scheme that will give continuing support to this most important market. It seems nonsense to me that a $ 1,000m industry should be subjected to misinterpretation of the Government's policies and that it should be subjected to some of the Press leaks that have occurred in the last few weeks surrounding the wool industry. As I said, I am thankful that the Opposition expresses the same sort of horror as I do on these sorts of matters. 
What I should point out is that this Government's policies are working and that the wool market has been recovering in recent times. The Corporation bought about 42.5 per cent of wool during the first week in February. This rose to about 50 per cent for the week ended 28 February. It reached its lowest point- 1.7 per cent- in the week ended 16 May. As the market has been picking up and as the Corporation has shown over that time, with up to 50 per cent purchases, both the ability and the willingness to enter the market we concede that this policy has been working. We can surely state that nowhere near that commitment of funds will be needed in the coming year. This is exactly the thing the Government wants to see happen. It is exactly the thing the wool industry wants to see happen. 
When the plan was introduced by this Government it had to overcome a lot of scepticism from growers, brokers, buyers and producers- even from the textile and garment producers. But we now see that acceptance and confidence in the Wool Corporation has been established. Textile producers know that they can rely on the Corporation to provide types at certain times when they are not available immediately for auction. They know that the Corporation will step in and that they have something firm to go on. So that is why I feel that these measureswhich relate only to the special levy of 5 per cent on the sale value of shorn wool- show that the growers have guaranteed to the Government and to the Wool Corporation that they are prepared to play their part and to meet losses. It is expected that this year they will contribute $45 m. I think that we all should stress again to the taxpayers that their funds are not at risk in this matter, that the growers are taking most of the risk out of this operation and that this is an operation that is giving stability to the wool market. It does not represent any great problem for taxpayers funds other than in terms of giving stability to the wool market. 
-The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  said that time had caught up with him. For a moment I thought that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that well known larrikin from the bush, had caught up with him. I listened to his cataloguing of all the woes that the Government had visited upon the dairy industry. I do appreciate one thing about the honourable member for McMillan. I understand that he represents a dairying area, as I do, and I am always happy to hear of the problems of other people in other areas. Tonight we are debating the Dairy Produce Bill. It is related more directly to the structure of a board. I do not want to talk in any great detail on this matter, but I would like to point out that in some ways this Bill reflects some of the overall philosophy of the Government with respect to farming generally. It is an indication of the Government's approach in the overall context. 
One of the big problems in framing rural policies in Australia has always been that it tends to get transfixed into an industry by industry analysis. Too rarely do we see governments approaching the rural sector as a whole. What this Bill is trying to do in one small way is to indicate what the Government is trying to get at in terms of reform, restructuring or reorganisations to make some very fundamental adjustment. The problems of the dairy industry have been of a very long duration. It has been well comprehended by all those in the industry that readjustment was needed. 
As my colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot points out, nothing was done about it. I would like to congratulate some of the people who have recently got together to try to come up with some sort of self-help plan for the dairy industry's future. The Australian Dairy Industry Council and the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation have got together to try to map out some sort of plan with respect to the future of the dairy industry and the bind it is in at present with respect to equalisation. An even more complicating factor in the dairy industry is that the States tend to play each other off. We have States rights exemplified to an unreal degree to the disadvantage of nearly all in the industry. State governments are starting to realise the problems that exist and are trying to grapple with them. Most State Ministers in charge of agriculture are at present engaged in quite a bit of discussion and analysis. They are setting up committees to report on the problems of the industry. At the national level the powers that we have are quite limited. 
What worries me is that the National Country Party when in office never really looked hard at the problems of readjustment. It never looked hard at the problems of the dairy industry in the context of the rural sector overall. In fact, if honourable members cast their minds back to some of these long standing problems, they will remember that in 1958 the members of that Party stopped plans for reconstruction of the industry. All they did was virtually to subsidise the British housewife's buying of Australian butter for about 15 years longer than they should have. Of course, if this had not been done they would have saved the Australian taxpayers $500m. There have been various moves over the years to restructure the dairy industry, to implement a few very simple basic reforms, for example, the McCarthy Report of 1961. All we could ever get out of the past Government were a few more patch up bandaid measures and a little more subsidy in a few other areas. It is true that this Government has removed some of these subsidies but by and large what we are after are efficient industries, not industries that have to be patched up with a series of bandaids which come from measures implemented at election time just to save a few more votes in a few more seats. 
The dairy farmers would have been better off now if plans for readjustment and reconstruction had been carried out earlier when the problems were clearly seen. New Zealand set out to restructure its dairy industry early in the piece. That country now has one of the most efficient dairy industries in the world. The farmers are better off, resources are better allocated in that country and there is a better situation overall. It really takes only a bit of guts on behalf of the Government and a bit of explanation, and the industry and the general public in Australia can see the wisdom in the moves. I have been alarmed at other times when we have set out to restructure boards engaged in commodity marketing of primary products in this country, to find that the Opposition, in keeping with its usual bleats of woe, misery and impending doom, has made all sorts of allegations about the sorts of people we are going to put on the boards. The Opposition has said that we are going to stack each board with various fellows who are supposedly of our Party affiliation. 
The last time there was a great hue and cry was when the Opposition was alleging that the Government was going to appoint one of its friends to the Australian Wool Corporation. What happened then was that an eminent businessman was appointed. He was appointed for his ability. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  has handled appointments to these industry boards with a great deal of wisdom. We are getting very good people on the boards. We are getting very good industry people on the boards and we are consulting with the industry itself. There is a lot more consultation with industry. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  commented this morning on this subject in the debate on the Wool Tax Bills. 
The farmers are better off in terms of representation on this Board. They will now have 3 members out of eleven whereas before they had 3 members out of thirteen. The problem to which farmers used to point before was that there were 8 manufacturers representatives on the Board, and they felt that their voice was outweighed. But that really is not the problem. That really is not the basis of the argument. It does not really matter how many people are on the boards; what is important is the strength and the ideas of the people. We should not think that any board that we set up will simply divide itself along a certain line between farmers, manufacturers and Government representatives or in some way become factions. What boards are about is to get together on some sort of consensus to pool the wisdom of all who are there and to come up with a better policy which is accepted by the industry. 
That is the Government's motive in trying to restructure boards equitably and in the interests of the industry. 
I do not have much more to add. I think that this is a good move. There is nothing in this measure that one could criticise. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  raised some problems with respect to his own electorate and I would like to raise one with respect to mine- that is, the prices farmers receive for their stock when they sell them. As we know, the slump in beef prices has had the most adverse effect on the dairy farmers trying to sell off their store cattle and cattle no longer suitable for their own enterprise. I have one meatworks in my electorate. The biggest problem it faces today is in respect to workers compensation. I would like to point out to the House the way in which this impost on the industry has risen dramatically in the last few years. In 1974 the main abattoir in my electorate was paying a premium of $25,000 for workers compensation. Since then there have been 2 rises and the premium went up $5 1,000. However they found on May 9 that their 30 per cent discount had been removed and they will have to pay another 50 per cent, bringing it up to $61,000. By applying the same factors, next year it will be $130,000. 
There is a review in the pipeline, and it looks as though the abattoirs will have to pay $3 1 in compensation for every $ 100 in wages. The dairy farmers themselves face this enormous impost but for the abattoir, with 135 men, the workers compensation bill next year will be about $200,000. This is going to be an enormous impost on the whole rural sector. It is going to kill the abattoir concerned. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I am a little reticent to rise on this matter, because I have not given it as much attention as I should have liked. Therefore the comments I shall make will be rather modest. I think in many ways that the ombudsman will have to proceed on a trial and error basis. It is not just a question of the structure we are setting up in the Bill tonight; it will be a question of the individual concerned as the ombudsman. It will be a question to which we should give more attention as the processes of the ombudsman are carried out and various cases come before our attention and reports are made to the Parliament. I think more and more that the task we will face in government is somehow or other to protect the rights of the individual in a society where the ordinary people- the little people if I could use that phrase- tend to become submerged. There are now parts of my electorate which are almost entirely city. The people there feel themselves to be almost totally submerged by the society they live in and are gradually becoming alienated from the processes of government that surround their every day life. 
I am always concerned about this concept of bigness. The concept of bigness is reflected in our politics in Australia. We do not really have political parties with ideas. We have political parties that represent interests. The various parties wear labels, the Labor Party being the Party of big unions, the Liberal Party the Party of big business, and the National Country Party representing big farmers. Too often I think that this is a reasonably accurate description of the way in which we act. Too often, I do not think any political party realises that much of this country's economy is based on small enterprise, small farms and a myriad of small unions and that all these people are not sufficiently represented politically. 
I think that with a very big Public Service- one that is getting bigger, particularly in the Statesagain we have the same problem. The rights of the smaller people, people with very specific problems such as the migrants are submerged. I am pleased to see some reference to the problems in respect to migrants in the explanatory memorandum to the Bill. I think that often people do get submerged by these concepts of bigness and that we need more and more to give scrutiny to these concepts. There are many areas in the Public Service that, with all the will in the world, do not understand other areas of enterprise in our society. They do not understand as well as people in business how to make a dollar. More and more there are elements in the Public Service getting themselves concerned with the nature of making dollars. 
Then there is another problem: That people, when they approach public servants or administrators, really cannot ask the right questions. I am very much aware that the questions I place on notice sometimes seeking information do not go to the right target It is not that the Public Service evades the question, but simply that the question is not framed properly enough to go directly to the correct person somewhere who can handle that item. The people in the community face this very problem. If we have concepts of more and more open government, it seems to me that there may be an inherent danger inasmuch as most administration becomes committed to files, because it may be embarrassing to some people. So we need this constant sort of checking on these systems as we develop them and as they get bigger and bigger. I think that there are areas in any administration where there are levels of incompetence. Certainly some individuals are incompetent, whether they see it or not. I think this is a problem of the Peter principle under which people are promoted beyond the level of their ability. Of course there are some people in this situation who can really act with less than proper concern for the rights of the people to whom their administration is directed. 
We are setting up these review procedures. Of course it is very difficult when it comes to the final arbitration. Here again I agree with the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  and with the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  who say that the Parliament must keep on asserting its right to be one of the last arbitrators and that we should use our influence on the responsible Ministers. This concept of bigness, this concept of getting the public involved in administrative procedures is an exceptionally difficult business. That is the main thrust of the point that I should like to make. I am simply concerned at the concept of bigness, at the rights of the individual, and that we need to be constantly on our guard. We need to give this Bill time and we need to scrutinise the various reports that arise from it. 
The honourable member for Ryan traced the history of the whole concept of ombudsmen. It is not a very revolutionary principle. There is one account of the Conseil du Roi in France which started in the thirteenth century, was overthrown in the 1789 revolution and replaced by the Conseil d 'Etat. It continues in a different form today. Perhaps Sweden and the Scandinavian countries were the modern creators of the whole concept. New Zealand has had an ombudsman since 1962. A report was recently brought down in the New Zealand Parliament when I was there a couple of months ago. It would seem that about 20 per cent of the cases referred to it are still shown to be justified. The Department of Social Welfare there is the one which seems to be given the most attention. This is probably just a simple result of the number of representations that are made to it. 
The parliamentary committees in the New Zealand Parliament may refer matters to the New Zealand ombudsman. I think this is quite a good system. The same parliament is able to refer petitions to various parliamentary committees. There seems to be more development in many ways of dealing with public complaints. In Denmark which has had an ombudsman since 1954, I believe that the ombudsman publishes daily details of some of the complaints which he has received. With regard to clause 5 of the Bill which deals with the functions of an ombudsman, I raise the same sort of doubts and concerns that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  raised. It states: 5.(1)  Subject to this Act, the Ombudsman- 
Shall investigate action, being action that relates to a matter of administration, taken by a Department, or by a prescribed authority, and in respect of which a complaint has been made to the Ombudsman . . . 
These provisions are generally similar to those in other ombudsman legislation. The Bill deliberately does not define the phrase 'matter of administration'. This is because no definition has yet been formulated that would not unduly limit the ombudsman's flexibility in identifying a particular complaint as properly relating to a matter of administration and so open to his investigation. I think that that is fair enough. I think we do need to tread carefully in the early days of this legislation. At the same time, there is always the doubt that we will have a situation where Caesar is sitting in judgment on Caesar. I think this is one to which we, as members of the Parliament, must give particular attention. For the life of me, I do not see why we cannot be a little more revolutionary in this area, try to define the matter of administration and try to be in a position to pass more direct judgments on some administrative acts by Ministers. I would commend this line of thinking to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  Perhaps he would like to comment on it. 
I would like to raise only one other matter in the few minutes that I have available. We do have a Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration conducting hearings at present, and there is the possibility of many other reforms. We need not think that, because we have a Royal Commission, an ombudsman and an Administrative Appeals Tribunal, we have solved these problems. Other motions for reform are possible. For example, there could be a more extensive provision for appeals, both within a department concerned with various problems and to independent tribunals. We also could have the provision of more extensive appeals to the courts and we could create a special court or special division of the Supreme Court to handle some of these complaints. We also could have greater supervision and uniformity in the procedures of departments and administrative tribunals to be affected by legislative code and by a permanent supervisory body. Perhaps these are 3 areas to which we could give much more attention. As yet, no significant progress has been made in these areas in Australia, and there can be no doubt that the 
Australian system of administrative justice, if I can put it that way, is probably that much worse than the system in comparable countries such as New Zealand, Britain, France, the United States of America and Canada. All the States except Tasmania now have an ombudsman. Although I think that there are some deficiencies in the legislation in the various States, I consider that it is high time we had this sort of thing for the Australian Parliament, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say which countries have experienced famine and have required international assistance since World War II. 
If so, in what years have famines occurred in those countries. 
What physical impediments are there to the distribution of food aid to each of these countries, e.g. wharves, storage, roads, etc. 
What social impediments are there in the type of food aid which it is possible to distribute. 
What attention is being given to the storage and distribution problems of countries most prone to famine. 
What role does the United Nations play in the problem of famine other than with respect to emergencies. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of the Special Minister of State, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Police and Customs, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did poison gas/chemical warfare experiments take place in Australia during World War II. 
If so, where did these experiments take place, at what approximate dates, and for how long did any servicemen take part. 
3 ) How many servicemen took part in the experiments. 
Did the servicemen taking part in the experiments come from a unit raised in the general Wollongong area. 
Did all servicemen taking part in the experiments do so as volunteers. 
Were servicemen taking part in the experiments required to sign a document of secrecy; if so, why. 
Were all or any servicemen taking part in the experiments named officially or unofficially as 'guinea pigs'; if so why. 
Is there any relationship between the term 'guinea pigs' and eligibility for official visual recognition, that is Service medals or awards, or impartial consideration by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
How many servicemen taking part in the experiments were discharged as a result of injuries they may have received during the experiments. 
10) Did any servicemen taking part in the experiments serve in any unit subsequent to the experiments. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to radio reports this morning about a taxpayer with a wife, 4 children and a weekly income of $106, who feared that he would be worse off as a result of last night's Budget? Can he say what the taxpayer in question, a family man, has gained as a result not only of current Budget measures but also of earlier tax cuts and the introduction of Medibank? 
-The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  quite properly addressed himself to the key features of the Bill and to the main points in contention. In doing so he quoted mainly from the doubts and discussions of  Dr Tom  Millar which have appeared in recent newspaper articles. I think that  Dr Millar  has also properly addressed himself to some of the key points of the Bill. What concerns me about the honourable member's comments is that he did not really know which point of view he was arguing for when he spoke about control. One moment he seemed to think that the Minister had the control, the next moment he thought it was the Secretary and the next moment the Chiefs of Staff of the defence forces. Then he cited the American example. The Americans have a presidential system and the Senate has the right to veto the defence vote- the allocations of money. I think that there is some confusion in the Opposition's argument. 
The honourable member for Mitchell also mentioned the situation of the GovernorGeneral. The answer there is quite simple. The Governor-General remains the Commander- inChief. Under the existing legislation in time of war he could create a Chief. Now the Bill has simply appointed a Chief. In other words, what the Bill has done is to upgrade the command process by recognising in law the previous situation. The Bill provides' a unified chain of command and for the first dme clearly defines the line of command. This is one of the great benefits and great attributes of the Bill. There is no sense asking for Oxford dictionary definitions of every word in a Bill. No Bill sets out to do that. This legislation is quite plain. Let me state quite openly that no government in this country in peace time has ever set out to achieve or has ever achieved a cohesive, thought-through, consistent logical defence policy. This Government has been trying to set up some of the very basic structures and I believe that it has been successful. The Government has been criticised for it I think that the processes that are now in train represent the most fundamental rethink of defence policy, structure and administration that this country has ever undertaken. 
I do not know why the Opposition is so conservative on this matter. If honourable members opposite are doubtful of the facts I am sure that their doubts could be settled by contact with the Minister, with officials in the Department of Defence and with the Service chiefs in uniform in the Department. I do not think we need go back to Theodosius, Socrates, Blarney or Montgomery to solve the situation we face. They spoke very truly at the time, and the Government has set out to cure the problems that they saw. We have heard about royal charters and all the rest of it. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  clearly pointed out the nonsense with respect to that. The Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy retain the royal charter. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is quite unreconstructed in trying to approach this very important matter. 
I understand some of the tensions that exist between civilians and the uniformed branches of the armed services. This is inherent in any defence structure in any democracy such as ours. I sympathise with some of the problems of the uniformed members. They do not like being challenged by people with limited experience and often they can far more easily absorb the processes inherent in defence thinking, situations and strategies than can some of the civilians. I refer to the military arts, the military disciplines and the training for combat and war. By and large these sorts of tensions cannot be avoided. 
This Bill has tried to set out for the first time clear lines of command in the structure so that for the first time there can be a sensible interface. Let me try to sort out some of the problems to which the Opposition has quite properly directed attention. Reference was made to the powers of the Secretary of the Department of Defence. We all know that  Sir Arthur  Tange is regarded by some people as having a very powerful intellect but we also know that people in the uniformed sections of the defence structure have powerful intellects. All these things will be settled. Only a few weeks ago the Chief of Staff called the civilian and uniformed sections together in an exercise and we saw something coming up which excites me and which I believe makes this Bill worth while. I do not think that there are many problems relating to the defence structure of this country that we cannot solve. I do not know why the conservatives on the opposite side should try to raise so many shibboleths and red herrings in respect of this matter. 
The basic powers of the Secretary as Permanent Head of the Department are set out in section 25(2) of the Public Service Act which reads as follows: 
The Permanent Head of a Department shall be responsible for its general working, and for all the business thereof and shall advise the Minister in all matters relating to the Department. 
To the extent that specific powers are given in the Defence Act to the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Chiefs of Staff these powers of the Secretary must be read down. In particular, under the new section 9a( 1), the administration of the Defence Force is vested jointly in the Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff. Under the proposed new section 9(3) the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Chiefs of Staff are given the responsibility of advising the Minister on matters relating to the command which is vested in them. 
The next matter the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Mitchell raised was the problem of command and administration. The honourable member for Moreton claimed that an assumption implicit in the reorganisation is that command is separate from administration. He also says that the assumption is that one set of people- the central organisation- should advise on defence policy and that another set of people- the armed forces- should carry it out. In this he misses a significant thrust of the new organisation. There has in fact been a move in the opposite direction. A very careful attempt has been made to concentrate wherever appropriate, policy advising and the application of policy in the one staff. For instance, the Chiefs of Staff play a significant role in the development of policy through their membership of higher defence committees. The twohatted arrangements whereby some senior Service officers have, at the same time, a responsi.bility within Defence Central for policy advising and a responsibility to their Chief of Staff for implementing is another example. This point is particularly valid for logistics and technical service areas which have been singled out for special comment by the honourable member for Mitchell. 
Another problem which the Opposition has raised relates to the adequacy of this organisation in war time. As I said, honourable members opposite do not seem to be clear in their own minds just what line of command they want. This Bill has set this out clearly. No one would contend that the exact form of defence organisation required in war would or should be set up in peace time. The peace time organisation must be one that is suitable for the continuing improvement and development of the force structure, its equipments and skills, but which lends itself to a smooth transition to any war time situation. The new organisation provides a better basis than the one it is replacing for any transition from peace to war. In particular, it provides for the position of Chief of the Defence Force Staff, responsible to the Minister, and for the command of the total defence force in peace or war. It places centralised control of military operations and related military activities with the Chief of the Defence Force Staff while the Service Chiefs of Staff remain responsible for single service operations and their support. 
It provides new functional arrangements in the Department of Defence which lead to improvements in administration, including better force structure planning and resource allocations and financial management. These improvements should prove their value in war as well as in peace and provide the necessary flexibility to adapt quickly to a changing situation. In particular it provides for a combination of Service and civilian officers in all appropriate policy matters and other elements in the new departmental organisation. As the new organisation stands it will be adequate to meet the requirement of any conflict of the kind Australia has experienced in the last 30 years. Structural changes in the organisation would not be necessary in these circumstances. For large scale conflicts changes may be necessary, not only in defence but also in areas such as a war Cabinet, munitions production, manpower controls, etc. 
Another problem which the honourable member for Mitchell raised was the problem of civilian influence. Again I point out that it was not clear to me what he saw as being ideal or as being required. The new organisation increases considerably the direct influence of service officers in the formulation of defence policy advice and recommendations to the Minister and the Government. The Chief of the Defence Force Staff is made responsible to the Minister for the command of the Defence Force and each Chief of Staff for command of his Service. The Chief of the Defence Force Staff and the Chiefs of Staff of each Service will have access to the Minister either individually or through the Chiefs of Staff Committee. There is, therefore, ample scope for them to present their views to the Minister, either jointly or individually. The use by the Secretary of his powers as a Permanent Head under the Public Service Act will be qualified by the statutory powers of the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and by ministerial directive requiring responsiveness by the departmental structure to the needs of the Defence Force. 
A substantial increase is recommended in the number of service officers directly participating in the work of the Department of Defence including the preparation of policy advice and recommendations to the Minister. For example, since December 1973 Service positions in the Central Defence Organisation have increased from some 130 to some 490. So it is quite clear that the situation in relation to civilians is not one that needs to be looked at in any sort of fear from any point of view. One could go on to itemise these things but they  aTe  spelled out in the Bill. Another matter which honourable members opposite raised was with respect to this civilmilitary relationship. I suppose one could concede that it would be surprising if a far-reaching organisation of this kind did not provoke varying reactions particularly at levels far removed from the centre. But successful formulation and implementation of defence policy requires inputs from both Service and civilian officers. The new departmental organisation was developed in continuous and close discussion among senior Service and civilian officers. The  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, and the 3 Service Chiefs of Staff played an active part. The  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff and, with small exceptions, the 3 Chiefs of Staff supported the proposed functions of the Chief of the Defence Force and of the Department of Defence. 
In effecting the changes flowing from the abolition of the Service departments and of the Department of Supply, implementation of the new organisation has proceeded smoothly. As more Service officers take up their positions in the new departmental structure misunderstandings, particularly about the military-civil balance, are disappearing. I reiterate that there is no sense in trying to express conservative fears about this matter. The people actually involved in the reorganisation have lived through it. The Chief of the Defence Force Staff at present, General Hassett, has also promoted various changes in the armed Services over many years. He has written the changes. He has implemented them. He is living with them. All the people at the highest echelons within the armed Services have had this experience and know exactly what is happening. They endorse the proposals now before the House. 
Another matter which the Opposition has raised relates to the powers of the Minister. There seem to be some doubts in the minds of honourable members as to what the powers of the Minister shall be. Let me just spell out some of these powers. Under the existing legislation each Service board has the control and administration of all matters relating to its service upon the policy directed by the Minister- that is with respect to the Navy, in accordance with the policy directed by the Minister- that is with respect to the Army; and subject to the policy laid down by the Minister- that is with respect to the Air Force. Under the proposed legislation the Minister has the general control and administration of the Defence Force. He may issue directions to the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and to the Chiefs of Staff in respect of the command vested in them and to the Secretary and to the Chief of the Defence Force Staff jointly in respect of their administration of the Defence Force. This seems to me to be a simple enough step. We are simply validating a process which has occurred in the past. Again we are setting up a more clearly defined line of command and a more clearly defined situation between the various arms of the defence structure. 
A further matter raised by the honourable member for Mitchell was in respect to the need for a defence council. I would have thought that the legislation had quite clearly spelled out that there was no longer any need for a defence council, if there ever was one. The new organisation is carefully designed to ensure that all important matters are decided by the Minister or Cabinet after the Minister has been fully advised of all significant or relevant points of view. It is difficult to see how a defence council could be constituted as a fully executive body in the normal sense. Any decision would have to be subject to the agreement of the Minister. The Minister's constitutional authority and responsibility cannot be restricted by any departmental committee. In any case, the provision by legislation of a council as an advisory body to the Minister is redundant. There is already an established series of Minister's conferences between the Minister, the Minister assisting, Service Chiefs and departmental officers. The carefully devised higher committee structure in the new organisation, as well as the provisions for access to the Minister by the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and the Service Chiefs of Staff ensure that collective and considered professional military advice will reach the Minister in written form. He can call the committees to discuss the matter with him at will. Moreover, it is specified that the advice from the higher defence committees to the Minister must include any dissenting views of either service or civilian members if the dissenting member so wishes. No significant opinion can therefore be obscured or withheld. 
I have addressed most of my comments to answering some of the arguments put forward by the Opposition. Finally I must clearly state the objectives of this legislation and why I believe that it is in the interests of this nation's defence that they must be carried through. Perhaps we all know here tonight that the Opposition already intends to put this measure before a committee in the Senate, but I am quite sure that the Bill before the House will stand any examination because basically the ideas behind it are sound and essential for Australia's defence. As I said at the beginning of this speech, there is a great need for Australia to look thoroughly at its defence structure in peace time. We have been not so much extravagant but we have been generous in respect to other people's wars. For the first time we are looking at defence in terms of being rather bigger boys. We must look after ourselves from now on. The Government is orientating its defence effort towards the defence of Australia for the first time. For too long in the past there have been conflicts between the arms of the Services. This legislation is setting out to stop some of these useless conflicts. It is quite ridiculous to have the Royal Australian Navy the main enemy of the Royal Australian Air Force by implication with respect to some purchases of equipment. It has been quite ridiculous in the past for these sorts of conflicts to surface and for each of the Services to have its own Minister to perpetuate the conflicts in the Cabinet I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Agriculture, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within the Minister's portfolio since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
-When our distinguished colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was praising some aspects of this Budget I thought that he would have mentioned the fact that the Government has been able to promise another step in the abolition of the means test for pensions. Over many years he was one of the keenest advocates of the abolition of the means test. As we know, his Party when in government did nothing about it. Stripped of aU the rhetoric, I suppose that a lot of what we are talking about today is whether there should be a little more Government involvement in the economy or a little less. It is clear that Australian Labor Party governments have always opted for a little more involvement, whereas Liberal governments have always opted for a little less, in the belief that they will therefore have more money to spend on services. The problem is that this expenditure on services in so many areas never occurred and that is the reason this Government, in its 2 terms of office, has opted for more Government spending on the services for which the people have so long called. 
There is nothing sacrosanct about the various levels of Government expenditure. The only problem is the rate of change by which one adjusts the various magnitudes of expenditure. The honourable member referred to tariff cuts. I hope and plead that the cause of tariff reduction and tariff reform in Australia will not be lost or overthrown because the Government's across the board tariff cuts may have had some adverse effects in some industries. If one looks at the tariff cuts in reality and if one looks at the rise in wages and salaries in the industries affected, one sees that the tariff cuts are rather miniscule in effect. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on the delivery of his first Budget. He was very careful to explain the choices before the Government. He was very careful to explain that there are a lot of other actors in the economic arena. He was very careful to explain that what we are setting out to achieve is based on a long run strategy. That sort of strategy is to be directed particularly towards the private sector, which everyone used to call 'business'. This psychological factor, this factor called 'confidence', is something that must be maintained and guaranteed by a government. But one cannot have business confidence or expectations based on some of the unreal expectations and unreal speculations of past times. I could refer particularly to the unreal speculation or boom in mining securities in the late 1960s and early 1 970s. Even now we see the collapse of one firm- Patrick Partners- which reflects back directly to the mining boom and the mining collapse in 1971. 1 will not mention too many of the Patrick partners as I understand that my opponent in the electorate of Macarthur is somewhat sensitive on this matter. 
One thing that I would say about business- it seems to be a valid criticism- is that when all governments talk about business they seem to refer entirely to incorporated business. Enough attention never seems to be given to measures which could induce confidence in or give incentive to non-incorporated business. Too often we seem to think that the economic world of Australia is composed of big business, big unions and big government. I believe that the economy of nearly every town or suburb in this nation is composed basically of small businesses. We probably have too many of them but they are a very real factor in the health of Australia's economy. I do not think that this Budget is expedient; I do not think that it is political. I think that it is sensible; I think that it is reasonable; I think that it is to be respected, and I think that it is gaining respect. It is one of consolidation. 
I was particularly pleased to note that the defence budget amounted to over $ 1,800m this year. I believe that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  when he explains this in greater detail will be able to point to real rises in expenditure on capital items. As he explained today at question time, it is essential that the capital component of our defence budget goes up. I point out that expenditure overseas on capital items for defence is not inflationary. I was more happy that the education budget exceeded $ 1,900m, because this is one of the areas in which the Labor Government has been opting for increased expenditure. I thank the Opposition for spelling out exactly what it would do. This was a refreshing change. Some of the matters raised last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were purely ideological. This fits in well with his basic approach that he will spell out the ideological differences. He still is opposed to Medibank. He is going to sell off the Pipeline Authority. He is going to sell the pharmaceutical corporation or whatever it is that does not exist. He is going to ban legal aid and he is going to ban the Prices Justification Tribunal. This is all part of the ideological attacks by the Opposition. I was even more amazed last night to hear this same ideology reflected in the speech of the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson). His  first speech here was all about the red, white and blue. Now he is slamming the mother country, the English sickness. Where has his loyalty for the mother country gone? Again this is the ideology. Apparently the Opposition thinks there are some votes in slamming England. 
Some matters were straight out economically silly or impossible- for example, $2,700m, the total cost of implementation of the Mathews Report. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out this morning, the Opposition's list of extra revenue items comes up to $2,470m, the cuts to $680m, leaving a deficit of $4,600m. I suppose there will be a lot of debate about the figures. Where the heck is the circuit-breaker effect in the aggregates and magnitudes of expenditure that the Opposition is coming up with? We can speculate as to what sort of mess the Opposition would have had the economy in now if we take some of its previous statements into consideration. For example, the National Country Party of Australia would not haverevalued. It would not have cut tariffs. It would not have done a whole lot of things this Government did in 1973 when it was faced with quite a few economic problems as a result of the last Government's policies. Even now the Country Party is calling for the implementation of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on equalisation. I think it should be particularly aware that even if this were implemented this year it would have almost nil effect on the farming sector. 
Even the superphosphate bounty of $ 12 a ton when the absolute price has gone up by $45 a ton- I do not think you are centering your attention on the main problem. 
I do care. Some matters in the statement of the Leader of the Opposition were disastrous. I need only refer to my electorate and to his policy on the growth centres. He is going to wipe them.  He  is going to wipe the area improvement programs. He is going to wipe the Housing Corporation. 
Some matters in the statement of the Leader of the Opposition were totally absurd. He is going to wipe out the Australia Police. All they have done has been to change the name tags. Apparently the Australian Capital Territory is not going to have any police anymore. Then he is going to do something about the embassies. But these are embassies that the last Government approved. There are many matters which in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition are simply unanswered. Is he going to pull the coal tax off? Is he going to pull the postal charges back? What about some of the unpopular measures we- have taken? Is he going to repeal them or not? 
Is he going to repeal the means test? Is he going to continue with this or not? The Opposition fails to realise that the economy has changed world wide, that we are not dealing with some of the certainties we were dealing with through the 1960s. The engines of economic growth in all economies such as ours are quite different now in the 1970s. In fact, I do not think one engine of economic growth is engines. Economic behaviour is not predictable. Services are what are in demand in economies such as ours. We only have to take the effect of the tax cuts last year. Savings rose from about 10 per cent to 17 per cent. There are many imbalances in an economy such as ours now. I only have to refer to acquaintances in my own Australian Labor Party branches. Many people are on $100 a week and some are on $600 a week but all have the same requirements and needs. This is why I am particularly thankful that the Government has seen fit to introduce a new tax structure and the rebates. Some 500 000 people will pay no tax. A man on an income of $5,000 with a dependent wife and 2 children will pay nothing. If we had the old system the tax bite would be 45 per cent on average. Now it is going to be less than 35 per cent. 
It would appear from the statements of the Leader of the Opposition last night that he still does not understand the difference between deductions and rebates. He gave a table- I do not know why- and said that $9,000 represented the tax at the new rate and that if you looked at the old rate it would have to relate to a figure of $7,500. Unfortunately all you can compare is $9,000 with $9,000 and $7,500 with $7,500. If a person is getting more money or if he will be getting $9,000 at a certain time in the future but is getting only $7,500 now he will still be better off even if he is paying more tax. Of course we have reduced the number of brackets. There are now only 7 brackets. I am not sure how many there were before. In other words a person can stay within one tax bracket for quite a considerable time. If we are talking about taxation I do not think I shirk from the fact that if people demand more services we should be a high tax-paying country. I understand that we are still only eighteenth out of the 23 countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The very people who demand the services are typically those with middle and higher incomes. I think it is quite reasonable and understandable that they should pay taxes for the services they demand. It is not so much a reduction. Maybe you could allow that, as the Opposition has said, but this is based on a much fairer structure. If we accept this structure inflation will not any longer be able to feed some increases in public spending. In other words, the percentages we now have will hold. 
The speech of the Leader of the Opposition was marked by some of his ideology. Let us recall his comments in Press releases on the night of the Budget. He said that the Budget reduced freedom of choice of individuals, provided an incentive to spendthrifts and penalised those who want to save and those who want to provide a different education. Perhaps he still seems to think, as he said in a statement in my electorate, that it is only parents who send their children to a private school who are interested in education. Apparently he has not changed his mind. The tax structure does not penalise these people. It simply removes a socially unjust and economically expensive incentive to save in a particular way at the expense of the general public. Nearly $400m a year was going into the insurance deduction system, and that was at the expense of the general taxpayer. That is exactly the same sort of government handout as a dole cheque or any other government payment. It was simply government intervention that skewed people's spending in this direction, and it is all based on the idea of the Leader of the Opposition that the only reason people save is the tax concession. What this simply gives in fact is more freedom of choice. The Budget helps young families with children. 
I am particularly interested in some of the other ideological aspects of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. He says that he would wipe expenditure on growth centres. This is economically disastrous for my electorate. It would have the greatest effects on the Campbelltown growth centre. There is some $25. 8m in the Budget for the Bathurst-Orange and south-west sector growth centres. To refuse this would have a disastrous effect. I believe that my opponent is now working for the Leader of the Opposition. Let me read this quote: 
On Budget night - 
My opponent- worked in  Mr Fraser's  Parliament House office, drafting  statements for the Opposition Leader attacking the Govern ment's Budget proposals. He is also helping wnte the Budget  Speech  Mr Fraser  will deliver in Parliament on Tuesday  night. 
If this is the sort of thing that a candidate for Macarthur is going to write for the Leader of the Opposition I think it must be spelt out that it is disastrous for the electorate of Macarthur. He would wipe out expenditure on the growth centres. He would wipe out expenditure on the area improvement programs. He would wipe out expenditure under the Housing Corporation. These economically stupid and politically slanted ideological statements are as vacuous as some of the statements my opponent is making in my electorate. For example, he has said that the Government is in so much economic trouble because of  Blue Poles.  He has said that we cannot sell beef because of Connor's resources diplomacy. He seems to think that the beef tax is not a levy, and he seems to think that the coal prices we are getting from Japan are bad. 
I understand so. The Leader of the Opposition also said: 
Where is the sense in spending on growth centres when there is no growth? 
Let me explain what growth is in a growth centre. I will just nominate some of the housing projects under way. In the suburb of Ambervale there are to be 1500 houses. In Macquarie Fields the number is 1230 with 600 under construction to be finished by late 1975. In Kentlyn-Bradbury 1676 houses are to be constructed. Five hundred are presently under construction and the first 600 are to be delivered in September 1975 and the balance by October 1976. In Minto 1483 houses are under way with completion dates between December 1975 and July 1977. In Claymore 1118 houses are under construction, to be delivered between January 1976 and May 1977. Ingleburn will get an extra 200 houses and Bowing 1500 to be completed between October 1976 and December 1977. This is a growth centre. This is where the Leader of the Opposition is going to cut expenditure. All this money is committed. The State Government has agreed to this development. It is not affected by anything in this Budget. However, it does need servicing. This sort of growth centre development needs public expenditure. It needs it in respect of transport, schools, hospitals and other facilities. It also needs it in respect of jobs. Already in the industrial estate at Campbell town 580 acres have been sold and 33 industries have been approved. There are projects under way involving cooperation between private contractors and the New South Wales Housing Commission. The same sort of arrangements can be made between private contractors and the Australian Housing Corporation. Even today I received from a private firm a planning study which fits in well with this growth centre. 
There are thousands of coal trucks pounding the roads in my electorate every day and it is essential therefore that there be public expenditure on roads for use by private companies. What is wrong with this sort of public expenditure? The coal industry is flourishing in my electorate. 
There are 3 new coal mines going in at present. This Budget is made for my electorate and consequently I am particularly pleased that it is a Budget of consolidation and a Budget that continues to expand the public programs that benefit directly all the various aspects of the economic community in my electorate. With an electorate such as mine it is essential that there be public spending in nearly every avenue that this Government has chosen from its options. The New South Wales Government has come to a series of arrangements with the Federal Government, particularly with the Department of Urban and Regional Development with respect to land commissions, sewerage and the funding via the South- West Sector Development Board. It is absolutely essential for the future of Campbelltown that this sort of expenditure continue and is not wiped as it would be by the Liberals if they were in office. 
We have not. The same sort of situation prevails throughout my electorate. Further south on the south coast the same sort of basic infrastructural needs are present. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd plant on the south coast has relied on the public provision of infrastructural projects and this is the way it has always been. If this industry is to develop there is a need to develop transport linkages from it to the rest of Australia. There is a need for more port development. There is a need for roads to provide transport for the people who will work in the industry and serve the urban centres around the industry. This is what is going on. It is absolutely essential that money be allocated for the upgrading of the Macquarie Pass. It serves the seventh biggest city in Australia and whenever there is heavy rain the Macquarie Pass simply collapses and the city is cut off and cannot serve the south-east of New South Wales. 
In all matters this Budget has consolidated the various areas of public spending. For example, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  will know the impact that education spending by this Government is having on a growing area such as my electorate. Over $750,000 has been spent on pre-schools already in the area and the Budget estimates do not reflect any cut in this spending. Of course, from now on with respect to preschools and child care help more emphasis will be placed on the additional usage of facilities which are already there. Often it is not realised that by planning we can utilise services a lot better. If we are talking about cutting our expenditure on growth areas this means in turn that planning cannot proceed and that savings of government money cannot be effected. 
Two technical colleges are under construction or nearing completion at Dapto and Moss Vale. Again funds from this Government, funds administered by the Minister for Education, have gone into these 2 important technical colleges. Earlier Budgets for the first time provided that we pay all the fees of people who go to technical colleges and institutions of tertiary education. I commend the Budget to the House and totally dissociate myself from the amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, were produced by the former Postmaster-General's Department, by authorities for which the Postmaster-General was or is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Postmaster-General's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Postmaster-General expect them to be published. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise 2 matters in the adjournment debate tonight. Tonight I was alarmed to hear the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  saying on an Australian Broadcasting Commission television program that the Fretilin Party in Timor is communist. I was just as alarmed to hear him make this implication in a question which he asked in this House today. The same statement was made by the former Leader of the Liberal Party, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  This statement is stupid, it is dangerous and it is wrong. At a time when the Fretilin Party, so we are led to believe, is gaining the upper hand in the CiVil fighting in Timor, it is stupid to brand this party as being communist. This simply means that the Opposition Parties are thereby saying that they would endorse any moves by Indonesia to secure the colony in any way that Indonesia saw fit. 
I do not know where honourable members opposite get the idea that the Fretilin Party is communist. What evidence do they put forward for this point of view? I was on the island earlier this year. We asked the Indonesian Consul whether the Fretilin Party was communist. He said no. We asked the bishop whether the Fretilin Party was communist. He said no. We asked the members of the Taiwanese Chinese community whether the Fretilin Party was communist. They said no. We asked all the people on the island whether the Fretilin Party was communist. They said no. The very simple situation on that island is that the 3 political parties do not have any clear political leanings in the sense in which political parties are denned in Australia. They are simply groups of people who attach themselves to various personalities. The various political parties are in the very basic stages of formation. To label them communist without putting up any proof, as I have said, is stupid and dangerous. 
The other matter that I wish to raise is that it will come as a surprise to readers of  Development News Digest  that  Mr Brendan  0'Dwyer has been relieved of his position in the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. That was reported in the  Canberra Times  of 23 August 1 975. One of the publications of ACFOA is the  Development News Digest.  To those people with some experience in the business of foreign aid  Development News Digest  always appeared as a very important but rather staid, well-documented publication. The reported statement by  Mr Keys  of the Returned Services League that ACFOA 'should not become involved in expressing views on controversial subjects' only serves to verify some remarks made about the RSL. 
I think I must stress here very definitely that if foreign aid is to be regarded as a gigantic diplomatic stunt there may be a case for supporting the remarks about  Mr 0'Dwyer  made by certain conservative forces. But if foreign aid is to be regarded as part of a dynamic human effort in relation to those whose access to the bountiful resources of this planet is less than privileged, the work done by ACFOA and the material published in the  Development News Digest  during  Mr O'Dwyer's  period as editor will be warmly and enthusiastically supported by those with direct experience in the field, if not by those who pontificate from the comfortable, not to say luxurious, perspective of distance. 
There are two very important matters involved in this issue. Firstly  Mr O'Dwyer  was dismissed without reasons being given to him personally. He was summarily dismissed. There may be other reasons. They have not come out. But he was dismissed without anyone giving reasons to him. The second thing is that he acted at all times in terms of the policy laid down by the Council itself in the publication  Development News Digest.  It is quite certain in the developing countries that there is a need to analyse the politics of the Third World countries. It is quite certain that there is a need to put forward all points of view as long as they fall in with the policy of the Council. 
I think it is reprehensible that  Mr O'Dwyer  was not given reasons for his dismissal. I think it is terribly important that various people should not attempt to implant their own political views on an organisation such as this. ACFOA now receives some $90,000 a year from the Federal Government. As well as this it allocates some $500,000 a year from the Federal Government to the various voluntary agencies. I suppose one can anticipate that the various voluntary agencies have some tensions between themselves as to where the funds will go. But to my mind it is very important that the Council simply lay down some policy and not in any way try to intrude its own political views once it has reached a decision on the sort of policies that should be followed, particularly in respect of the education unit which  Mr Brendan  O 'Dwyer formerly led. 
There is another matter, and that is that on Thursday, 21 August, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  the Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs, went to a closed meeting of ACFOA and there are various allegations that he used his influence to have  Mr 0'Dwyer  dismissed. I am not going to say that this occurred. But I think it is very important to realise that there are many people on that Council who may be persuaded to take political decisions. I think it is reprehensible and I wish that to be recorded. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
1 ) What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported, that the Australian Government is planning to spend millions of dollars duplicating research work being done by the New South Wales Government 
Is the CSIRO's trawler  Courageous  stationed in Sydney to carry out the same work as that which is being earned out by the New South Wales State Fisheries' vesselKapala; if so, why. 
What other studies can be carried out by  Courageous  which could not be carried out by the  Kapala. 
Did the  Courageous  cost $700,000. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
What, reports, excluding annual reports, were produced by the former Department of the Northern Territory, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, were produced by the former Department of Northern Development, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Social Security, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published.  .  Mr Uren-  The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply, given by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2586, which appeared in Hansard (page 3545) on 5 June 1975. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1 972? 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published? 
-The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  who has just sat down gave a good introduction to the comments I wish to make. At the weekend I was rather surprised to hear a radio broadcast, a transcript of which I have subsequently gained a copy. 
The transcript reads: 
The Federal Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  said ... a Liberal-National Country Party Government could do much more to reopen markets for Australian beef in Japan and the United States. At Casino in northern New South Wales - 
I suppose he was there getting riding instructions rather than trying to get a few votes for the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  - 

 Mr Fraser said the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  had caused Japan to believe Australia would be an unreliable trading partner for raw materials. The coalition, if elected to Government, would again demonstrate that Australia was determined to be a reliable trading partner. This would put Australia in a much stronger bargaining position to protect primary industry exports. 
A similar situation applied to beef exports to the United States. 
This statement is simply dishonest. Not only that, it is an insult to the audience that was being addressed. This is the same tactic the Leader of the Opposition used in my electorate in trying to cast aspersions on a coal deal that was gained with Japan and was the best coal deal we have ever gained with that country. There was no Press statement to this bit of garbage. This was the same old tactic of trying to tell the audience what they wanted to hear regardless of the facts. If we want to talk about unreliability and the sort of resources blackmail that speakers on the other side of the chamber go on with we have only to refer to statements by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture made in my electorate and on the south coast in the electorate of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and also to a statement by the Premier of Queensland. They said at the beginning of this year that we should use our coal and uranium to blackmail Japan into taking our beef. If we are to talk about unreliability and statements by members of Parliament and we are to talk about the link between Japan and Australia to which the honourable member for Stirling quite rightly referred, some of these nonsense statements need to cease. It is a great reflection on the Department of Overseas Trade that these sorts of things should be said. It is offensive that these things should be said with respect to our major exports of raw materials. 
Let me bring some of the facts before the Committee. I will deal first with the beef situation. On 25 May of this year in answer to a question from the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  gave a very detailed answer outlining more than 36 arrangements, conferences and negotiations entered into by the Australian Government in an attempt to gain markets for Australian beef. I ask for leave to incorporate this document in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  leave granted? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
World Beef Trade (Question No. 1288) 
What meetings with what other countries have taken place on the world beef trade situation. 
What progress has been achieved, and what are the major problem areas. 
Since several importing countries, including the E.E.C., Japan, Greece, Canada and the U.S.A., imposed restrictions on imports of beef in 1974 and early 1975, a series of representations have been made either to secure reopening of markets or an equitable Australian share in the volumes permitted to be imported. 
It has not been possible to produce a complete and definitive listing of all the occasions on which Australian representatives have raised the matter of barriers to the export of Australian beef. However, a list of the main formal exchanges is provided below. 
Japan 
On 14 June, 1974 Australia made formal diplomatic representations to the Japanese Government regarding restrictions on imports. This followed a series of exchanges in Tokyo and Canberra on the Japanese measures, dating from February, 1974. 
A high-level delegation comprising Australian officials and industry representatives visited Japan from 18-20 July to press for re-opening of the market. 
Follow up exchanges took place during discussion on agriculture between Japanese and Australian officials in Canberra on 12-13 August, 1974. 
The matter was again raised during the visits to Tokyo of the Minister for Northern Development,  Dr Patterson  (4 September) and the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt(  8 October). 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  discussed the continued Japanese ban on imports with Prime Minister Tanaka, during the latter's visit to Canberra ( 1-2 November, 1974). 
At Australia's initiative consultations concerning the Japanese restrictions were held in Geneva "under the auspices of the GAT on 17-18 February, 1975. 
The Australian and New Zealand Ambassadors made joint representations in Tokyo on 1 1 April, 1975. 
A delegation of senior Australian officials pursued the matter during trade discussions in Tokyo on 14-15 April, 1975. 
Australian Ministers pursued the question of restrictions during the Australian- Japan Ministerial Committee meeting in Canberra on 2-3 May, 1975. 
I thank the honourable member for Kennedy. That answer sets out the facts. They are in  Hansard.  I would like to know how the Leader of the Opposition could possibly say, with efforts of this type going on and on the basis of the figures that I will later give, that we are regarded by Japan or the United States of America as an unreliable supplier of beef or any of the other major raw materials? As a result of all these negotiations which are continuing the United States has now taken the biggest amount of beef imports under the voluntary arrangements. Recently the Minister announced that a further 10 600 tonnes would go to that market to meet a shortfall in supplies from other suppliers. 
Looking to Japan, we have placed some 37 000 tonnes of beef there this year. The way this is developing, we may place 50 000 tonnes in the full year. We all know that the position with respect to Europe is impossible. I would think that all members in this Committee would know what the situation is in respect to Europe. We have placed some small quantities of beef in Greece. But I think all honourable members should know with respect to exports of beef to Japan that there are problems in that country. In the Melbourne  Age  last week, on 25 September, there was a statement with respect to the activities of the Livestock Protection Committee in that country. I think it is perfectly true to say that if the price of our beef was half of what it is it would not mean that we would sell any more beef. 
Let us have a look at some of the other statements that have been made with respect to raw materials. Let me mention iron ore. I must say that I am very glad that the honourable member for Stirling does recognise the linkage. He is one Liberal who at least states the truth on these matters. As we all know, when it comes to the crunch, the National Country Party has its way. Australia has iron ore reserves of 35 000 million tons. We have no problems with respect to reserves. In 1972 our exports of iron ore totalled 54 million tons. Last year it was 83.5 million tons. 
The estimate of iron ore exports this year is 80 million tons. 
All that this Government has introduced into a situation with respect to negotiations from private firms to private persons buying in Japan is prior consultation. As a result of this action, the value of our iron ore exports this year will be some $750m with a slightly reduced tonnage due to the downturn in world economic conditions, which is exactly at the base of the problems of our beef exports. In that situation we will get an additional $2 50m this year. This is a result of government involvement. We cannot say that there is any crisis with respect to future supplies because at present the Japanese are seriously investigating deposits, for example, at Marandoo and Deepdale. I could name quite a few others. The Japanese are looking at this matter quite seriously. There is no problem with supply at all. There is no problem as to total reserves. The Japanese themselves have been quite open in saying that they can rely on Australia as a supplier of raw materials. They have said this particularly with respect to coal. 
Despite the nonsense that my endorsed opponent for the seat of Macarthur and the Leader of the Opposition said in my electorate, this year Australia expects that some 27 million tonnes to 29 million tonnes of coal will be exported. By 1980 these exports will have risen to between 44 million tonnes and 49 million tonnes. More than that, as a result of the negotiations entered into by the Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Minerals and Energy and the Ministers concerned, we have reached agreements with the Japanese which will mean that there will be no reduction in the imports resulting from world fluctuations. In other words, the Japanese will simply cancel spot contracts if they find themselves in the position in which they found themselves in the past year. At the last negotiations, the Japanese steel mills representatives stated their appreciation of the assurance of continuity of supplies. They look upon Australia as a principal and reliable source of raw materials. They have said that publicly. It is in Japanese newspapers and their business journals for everyone to see. 
What this Government has done is to gain for Australia a 71 per cent increase in price. But somehow or another the Opposition wants to twist these benefits that we have gained into something to be sneered at. I do not know how Opposition members can expect at all times to have every argument both ways. The value of coal exports 18 months ago was approximately $400m. It will be probably in excess of $ 1,000m this year. It will be $l,700m by 1980 and will total $7,000m over the next 5 years. At all times the Japanese have stated quite clearly that they regard Australia as Japan's prime source of supply. They are quite happy to enter into negotiations with the Minister concerned. For years they have been doing exactly the same with their importers as we are now doing with our exporters. We are simply getting them together instead of allowing cut-throat competition to continue. 
The price of the best Queensland coking coal at 1 December 1972 was $1 1.26 a ton. The price for the same high grade coking coal at 1 July 1975 was $37 a ton. Somehow the Opposition must make up its mind whether this is good, bad or indifferent. Should we continue to countenance statements by various members opposite that we can continue to indulge in resources blackmail with respect to our raw materials? There is no truth in the statement put out by the Leader of the Opposition at the weekend. As I said, it is offensive to the Department of Overseas Trade. It was an insult to the audience that he was addressing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister responsible for the repatriation ward at the Queen Victoria Hospital, Picton. 
If so, how many repatriation patients are cared for in the ward. 
How is the hospital run on an administrative basis. 
Does the same hospital board control both sections of the hospital. 
If so, does the Department have representation on the board. 
Does the Department employ a doctor to care for patients in the repatriation ward. 
If so, is the doctor in a subordinate position to the matron of the hospital. 
Does the Australian Government pay the salaries of staff employed in the repatriation ward. 
Does the Australian Government pay part cost of the general running of the hospital including administration, nursing and maintenance. 
10) Have the doctor, the matron and other nursing staff recently resigned from the hospital. 
1 1 ) If so, what reasons were given for resignation. 
How many resignations of nursing and senior staff have there been from the repatriation ward (a) in the last 12 months and (b) in the previous 12 months. 
What reasons have been given for their resignations by the people concerned. 
Has the Department received any complaints about the administration of the hospital. 
Is it possible for the Minister to receive any such complaints. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc, within his portfolio, since S December 1975. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has the Government considered  alternatives to the annual meetings of the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council? Can he say what would be the nature and the cost of the alternative administrative structures involved? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say what are the functions of the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Service in Nowra. 
If so, does it have functions other than the provision of legal aid, e.g. co-ordination of activities. 
How many (a) permanent and (b) casual employees are there. 
How many vehicles does it own or use. 
5 ) How is it funded, and who controls expenditure. 
How are payments approved, and who is authorised to sign cheques. 
What restraints are there on spending. 
Has the Service the power to make payments for casual work; if so, of what nature. 
Has the Service the power to fund travelling, meals or other expenses for people taking part in demonstrations against government or other authorities 
10) How many service stations, motels, etc., have credit facilities and account arrangements with the Service. 
What sum was spent by the Service on travelling, maintenance and repair of vehicles and accommodation during the past six months. 
Were staff members of the Service involved in demonstrations against the Australian Government in Canberra in November 1974. 
1 3 ) If so, what sum was spent on these demonstrations by the Service. 
Does the Service serve the needs of people only on the South Coast. 
Have there been changes in the starling of the Service in recent months; if so, what were the reasons. 
-Once more I follow the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  in an estimates debate. Once more I must praise him, and particularly so today for bringing to the attention of this chamber the report of the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment in respect of coastal land. I too have a coastal electorate. I suppose in one way we could say that Australians are a coastal people. The pressure on our coasts, particularly near the major cities, is quite intense and it has reached the stage where I think we are quite lucky to have left any coast in any sort of natural form. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has recently concluded a reference in respect of future land use in the Jervis Bay area. During the hearings of that Committee the Department of Environment brought forward a submission relating specifically to coastal lands. The Advisory Committee has now made its recommendations. I certainly trust that the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  and his Department will take the recommendations of this Committee into account. In the recommendations there is mention of finance. 
This afternoon many conservationists, and I am sure all honourable members, were delighted to hear the Minister say that he can go beyond the $1.8m allocation under the terms of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act to guarantee ahead purchases by the States of certain lands that were not only legally binding but in train to some degree. As honourable members will recall, when the previous Minister made his statements it was then hoped that there would be some triennial funding. I think he suggested a figure of possibly $20m. I do not know what the Department is going to come up with in respect of a national coastal policy, whether there will be a need for a separate Act, but as the report pointed out, the States do have a lot of powers in this field. However, often when they have tried to act they have found it difficult because of a lack of finance. 
The Minister this afternoon also pointed out the limits of his powers, the number of Acts he has, and emphasised the large amount of work going on within his Department. He also said that he will be advising us of some of this work in a different way. The Department was restructured a little some 4 months ago. I think it is very important that a department working in an area such as environment should constantly adjust and not become too rigid because we are dealing very much with an area concerned with value judgments. I think that one of the most important pieces of legislation introduced into the House in the current Parliament was that relating to environmental impact statements. Many environmental impact statements are now under way and I foresee that in the future there may be some need to look at the way that these measures have worked out in practice. The House of Representatives Standing Committee has enabled the members of it in particular to assess the way that people involved in the conservation movement, from the Department down to individuals, are thinking and developing their thoughts on all matters concerned with the environment and the way that the Government can involve itself at all levels in the problem. We have been particularly pleased to note the quality of some of the statements coming forward from quite minor groups. We have been pleased to note the impact that the quite minor grants being made by the Minister have had on some groups in some areas. Some conservation groups in my own electorate and in the electorate of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  have been particularly valuable. 
As the Minister for Environment said, the States are co-operating with respect to national parks. I would like to devote most of my attention this afternoon to the national parks aspect of the Minister's portfolio. Certain legislation was introduced in December last year and the Minister explained earlier this session, in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  why only $1.8m was allocated at that time. The States have been attempting to combine their legislation and, with the permission of the honourable member for  Gwydir, who is sitting opposite, I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a table prepared by the Parliamentary Library relating to various pieces of legislation in the States. The table shows that the States are trying to incorporate their legislation into one Act that will cover all aspects of the environment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-Is  leave granted? 
Australian Capital Territory 
Public Parks Ordinance 1 928- 1 942. 
Animals and Birds Protection Ordinance 1 9 1 8- 1 928. 
Wildflowers and Native Plants Protection Ordinance 
1936. 
Northern Territory 
Crown Lands Ordinance 1931-1973. 
National Parks and Gardens Ordinance 1 959- 1 968. 
Wildlife Conservation and Control Ordinance 1 962- 1 974. 
Related legislation 
Social Welfare Ordinance 1964-1974. 
Native and Historical Objects and Areas Preservation Ordinance 1955-1960. 
New South Wales 
National Parks and Wildlife Bill 1974. 
The object of this bill is to consolidate and amend the provisions of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1967, the Fauna Protection Act, 1948 and the Wild Flowers and Native Plants Protection Act, 1 927 '. 
Present legislation 
National Parks and Wildlife Act 1967 as amended to date. 
Fauna Protection Act 1948 as amended to date. 
Wild Flowers and Native Plants Protection Act 1927 as amended to date. 
Related legislation 
Crown Lands Consolidation Act 1913 as amended to date. 
Forestry Act 1 9 1 6 as amended to date. 
Mining Act 1906 as amended to date. 
Public Parks Act 1 9 1 2 as amended to date. 
Public Trusts Act 1 897 as amended to date. 
Fisheries and Oyster Farm Act 1 935 as amended to date. 
Victoria 
National Parks Act 1 970 as amended to date. 
Related legislation 
Mines Act 1958 as amended to date. 
Petroleum Act 1 958 as amended to date. 
Forests Act 1958 as amended to date. 
Game Act 1 958 as amended to date. 
Land Act 1958 as amended to date. 
Wild Flowers and Native Plants Protection Act 1958 as amended to date. 
South Australia 
National Parks and Wildlife Act 1 972. 
Tasmania 
National Parks and Wildlife Act 1970 as amended to date. 
Western Australia 
Land Act 1933-1972. 
Fauna Conservation Act 1950-1970. 
Native Flora Protection Act 1 935- 1 938. 
Related Acts 
Parks and Reserves Act 1895-1972. 
Queensland 
Forestry Act 1959-1974. 
Fauna Conservation Act 1974. 
Native Plants Protection Act 1 930. 
Related legislation 
Fisheries Act 1957-1962. 
Lands Act 1962-1974. 
Aboriginal Relics Preservation Act 1967. 
Rural Fires Act 1946-64. 
At the time that the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act was introduced into the Parliament I had quite a bit of information prepared but unfortunately did not get a chance to speak in that debate. Again I would like to incorporate something. It is a table from the House of Representatives Standing Committee that dealt with wildlife. It shows the area of Australia set aside for national parks and reserves. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? 

<graphic href="096131197510025_52_0.jpg"></graphic>

I want to deal with the situation relating to the amount of money that the States can allocate at present for the acquisition of national parks. New South Wales now has something over 4 million acres in national parks or reserves in one form or another. According to the most recent report it has been able to add an extra 250 000 hectares. Some of that land was acquired. The New South Wales Government allocated in 1972-73 about $2.02m for further acquisitions. That was an increase of about 15 per cent on the previous year's allocation but it was more than offset by salary and wage increases. But even that small amount was by far the most that any State at that stage had been able to allocate towards the purchase of more national parks. For example, in Victoria where, according to the latest figures I have available, there are some 507 000 acres taken up by 24 national parks, the total income from all sources was only about $582,000. The grants made by the Government amounted only to $1 15,000 and it was quite obvious that there would be only a small amount over to be spent on any acquisition. 
The same sort of situation prevails in the other States. Queensland, for example, spent $6 10,000 under the only Acts I have been able to see that are associated with national parks acquisition and this by way of a grant from Treasury. If one again compares the amount spent on wages and maintenance it also is very evident that only a very small amount could be spent by that State in acquiring national parks. The amount of the appropriation in Tasmania was only $590,000. According to the figures I looked at in the various reports of the Government departments in that State it would appear that only something like $8,000 was available for acquisition of parks in that State in the year ended 1973. Western Australia faces the same sort of problem. That State tries to finance its national park services but the latest figures I could find in the Library, those for 1973, revealed that it was dependent on a grant of some $400,000. The only details of an acquisition that I could find amounted to the expenditure of some $4,910 for, I think, the Walgunga National Park. 
I am trying to stress the fact that even $1.8m will be of inestimable value to the States for the acquisition of additional national parks. That is why the announcement of the Minister this afternoon was so welcome. If we can commit ourselves ahead on the terms he indicated to the House and if the States continue the co-operation they have expressed so willingly so far I think we can all look forward in future years to a further increased allocation and get back to the concept of triennial funding with respect to some further grants to the States. 
-This afternoon from the Opposition we have heard evidence that the hard liners have taken over in the Liberal Party. That was evidenced by the speech by the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and by that of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  who gave us a very hard line attitude towards our foreign aid. Unless my ears deceived me it would appear that the honourable member for Kooyong, instead of grabbing onto the issue of Timor- on which of course he was run over by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  had the gall to say here today that due to left wing pressure from the Palestine Liberal Organisation the Australian Government would not participate in any United Nations peace-keeping force in the Sinai. I hope he will confirm that he said that. This is one of the greatest bits of nonsense he has ever brought in here. Firstly, there has been no specific request from the United Nations. Secondly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  said in the Senate yesterday that he made an offer to the United Nations to provide a peace-keeping force and the offer still stands. So I do not know how the honourable member for Kooyong can come in here and make such wild accusations and charges. The proposition I put forward is that the hard liners have taken over in his Party. He feels he is indebted to make this son of statement for the sake of his Party. 
The other matter I should like to raise is with respect to the honourable member for Ryan. I am afraid that I must express to you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that I am in complete opposition to almost everything he said. He said that charity should begin at home. But I point out that the money we spend on aid abroad in no way has an inflationary effect domestically. Also, we have profound commitments to some countries, particularly Papua New Guinea. In fact our aid to Papua New Guinea skews most of our aid programs. It is essential that it continue to take such a large proportion of the aid we can allocate. I would rather put emphasis on the fact that what is disappointing in the amount allocated for aid is that it does not advance us far on the path to achieving an expenditure of 0.7 per cent of gross national product on overseas aid. 
The honourable member for Ryan also raised the question of the appropriation of $ 1 50,000 for humanitarian assistance to national liberation movements in Africa. I suppose that last year we all received our little Christmas card with a picture of a negro corpse with a bullet in the middle of the head alleging that $150,000 goes for bullets. We are channelling money through organisations like the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund to provide humanitarian relief, not bullets. If a little bit of humanitarian relief and a little bit of Christian charity had been shown to the Palestinians and a few of the other refugee groups throughout the world in earlier times the international community may not have been faced with the very testing problems with which it is faced today. In 1974-75 Australia allocated $150,000 for mothers and children in Zambia under the care of a number of liberation movements. The funds were used for tents, blankets, domestic supplies, food, agricultural equipment, classroom equipment and school materials. I do not think the honourable member for Ryan would allege, as some people in the community allege, that the money was being spent on bullets. But I think that we need to look at this matter purely in terms of humanitarian assistance. 
The estimated expenditure on aid in the Budget this year is about 0.53 per cent of the forecast gross national product. That compares with an actual expenditure last year of 0.56 per cent. I would like to express my disappointment that there has been a small decline in Australia's performance in respect of official development assistance. We can judge this in the light of the percentages of gross national product which have been allocated in previous years. In 1971-72 it was 0.55 per cent, in 1972-73 it was 0.53 per cent, in 1 973-74 it was 0.52 per cent and last year, as I said, it was 0.56 per cent. In terms of calendar years the figures are more variable due to fluctuations in the rate of disbursements in each financial year. But it is disappointing. Regardless of whether we work on financial or calendar years, Australia's performance has been consistently better than the average of the DAC countries providing development assistance but, as I said, it is not good enough. Australia has undertaken to increase its official development assistance to a figure equivalent to 0.7 per cent of gross national product. No intermediate timetable has been adopted but it is quite certain that if we are to reach the target by 1980 we will have to do a little better next year. 
The honourable member for Ryan also devoted some of his time to the amount of money we are now allocating to the multi-lateral area rather than to the bi-lateral area. The problem with Australia's aid program is that so much of the total allocation is skewed towards Papua New Guinea. As honourable members know, there has been quite a deal of debate between the governments of Papua New Guinea and Australia with respect to the agreements entered into. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have stated Australia's point of view. In terms of the guarantee of $500m over 3 years- the Budget provides an allocation of $380m over 2 years- we can fairly say that we are well along the way to meeting that commitment. The 1975-76 development assistance budget allocates $207.9m as aid to Papua New Guinea. This represents 55.2 per cent of the total estimated development assistance expenditure and is an increase of $40.7m, or 24.3 per cent, over the actual expenditure in 1974-75. Aid to Papua New Guinea has been approximately maintained in real terms. Papua New Guinea's position compares favourably with the percentage increase in the total aid budget of 14.9 per cent. If we look at the area of multi-lateral assistance we will see the reasons for it. Australia has allocated over 55 per cent of its total aid budget to Papua New Guinea. 
If we are going to look at all the competing demands for our resources and if we are going to try to approach the problem in any sensible, pragmatic way it is quite certain that, apart from specific obligations, we will have to divert more of our attention to multi-lateral aid agencies, particularly in respect to the international obligations which we enter into at the various conferences we attend. For example, $200,000 is going to the International Labour Organisation for technical co-operation. Some $200,000 is going into overseas research and development programs. We are putting $50,000 into the Association for Science and Co-operation in Asia. We are putting $40,000 into the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development. We are also putting $4m into the International Fund for Agricultural Development because of obligations we have entered into. We are spending $4m or $5m through the World Bank- through the 'third window', as it is called- intermediate lending facility. For quite some time there has been a range of allocations to some 16 United Nations agencies. They have remained rather stable over the time during which we have been putting funds into them. This year particularly UNICEF, the Red Cross and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees have all run into serious deficits and it has been necessary for Australia to make an increase in their allocations -otherwise they would have most disruptive effects on the United Nations Organisation and make it even more impotent than the honourable member for Ryan said it is. 
The final comment which I would like to make is that there has been some criticism of the aid agency and the number of staff it employs. As far as I can make out, at present the staffing is about 692. Of that number some 400 are employed on labour intensive training and welfare services for some 12 000 foreign students in Australia. Of the total of 692, 554 were taken over from other departments and were hidden within the staffing of those departments. Approximately 100 of the 692 people are employed servicing staffing assistance to Papua New Guinea and some 140 people were employed in respect of head office financial and management support of departments overseas and the head office staffing itself here. So that does not leave a lot of people in the aid agency to undertake the sort of reviews which the honourable member for Ryan quite rightly pointed out are a necessary feature of the aid agency's work and a part of the work that is at present under intensive study. 
Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the capacity of the New South Wales Government to give effect to its obligations under the hospital side of Medibank? Has the Prime Minister seen a report that doctors in New South Wales have withdrawn their services from outpatients ' clinics? 

 Mr WHITLAM My doubts on this score would arise from the reaction by many doctors in outpatient clinics in New South Wales hospitals. I would accept that the New South Wales Government, albeit belatedly- it was the last of the State governments in Australia to do soaccepted the hospital Medibank arrangement in good faith. It is a matter of regret that so many doctors in outpatients' departments in New South Wales hospitals have defied the undertakings of the New South Wales Government and the arrangements which it made with the Australian Government. There is no doubt that if any persons working in other essential occupations or industries were to act with similar irresponsibility there would be outcries in all the newspapers and on the other side of this Parliament. In this case doctors have not acted with proper decency or dignity. I am not saying that all doctors have done that but quite obviously a great number of doctors have not acted with decency or dignity in serving the public who go to outpatient clinics. 
The people who go to outpatient clinics are most likely to be people who up to now could not have received hospital treatment or, indeed, medical treatment of any other character except in outpatient clinics. It is shameful that doctors should be seeking to impose on taxpayers in this way now that they in fact would be paid on a sessional basis for continuing to treat patients as hospital outpatients. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Foreign Affairs, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1 972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
I am afraid that today we saw that General Killen was caught with his pants down. I suppose that is understandable because today he introduced a reprehensible report. He came into the Parliament saying that there is no opportunity to debate defence and that the Government had been lackadaisical. He came in without a note. He did not even come in with the defence estimates. He gave us an example of how an erudite man can fill out a few minutes talking about something about which he knows very little. I understand that on the Opposition side there are at least 2 infantry commanders now. I hope they can do a little bit better on defence. 
The No. 1  speaker  from the Opposition team was the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  He went on mainly about the Army Cadet Corps. We are talking about some $10m in a Budget of $ 1,800m. It is fair enough for him to put emphasise on that part if he feels very strongly about the cadet question, but what we are talking about is defence and that is what the advice of the Chief of the Defence Force Staff is all about. Let us just look at the involvement of Service personnel with respect to our cadets. Cadet training has involved 330 soldiers in the Army and 121 people in the Navy and the Air Force. 

 -Mr Speaker, I also seek leave to make a short statement. 
The report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on development pressures on Jervis Bay is concerned with areas of the electorate of Fraser, capably represented by my colleague,  Mr Fry,  and my electorate of Macarthur. I was pleased to act as  chairman  of the sub-committee which dealt with this reference, and I express my gratitude to the other members of the subcommitteethe honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I am appreciative of the work of the Committee staff, particularly  Mr Phillip  Bush. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the local conservation groups who kept this issue before the public at their own expense. I would like to name the Jervis Bay Planning and Protection Committee, the Shoalhaven Conservation Society, the Jervis Bay Anti Pollution Commitee and the various progress associations. 
The  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  has informed honourable members of the reasons for this inquiry. Jervis Bay is a gentle area and its attractions are rapidly apprehended by anyone fortunate to visit the area. The report of the Committee should act as a guideline for future development of the Bay. I particularly emphasise the recommendations regarding co-ordination between all levels of government and also the future role of the local council, which is a very competent body requiring only funds to carry out desirable development. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by the Department of Labor and Immigration, by authorities for which the Minister is responsible, and by ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within the Minister's portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does the Minister expect them to be published. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What reports, excluding annual reports, have been produced by his Department, by authorities for which he is responsible, and ad hoc commissions, committees, task forces, etc., within his portfolio, since 5 December 1972. 
Which of these reports have not been published, and when does he expect them to be published. 
-We have just heard a very elegant speech from the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and I suppose that quite a few of us on this side of the House would have believed half of it if he could have stopped laughing. First of all, he tried to give us some very elegant arguments that this was not a Loan Bill for defence.  (Quorum formed). 
And then the honourable member for Kooyong quoted a letter from  Sir Robert  Menzies. The question of the power of the Senate is not under debate. What the Senate has is power but no responsibility; power but not the right to do what it is doing at this time. As Baldwin once observed, power without responsibility is the right of the harlot through the ages. 
I rise tonight to defend the people in my electorate and particularly the people in the Fleet Air Arm in Nowra. I rise to defend the pay of those 1700 men and to defend their wives and their children. I rise to defend the economic health of that town. I am sickened to see mirth coming from honourable members opposite when they start talking about the problems in the armed Services last year which were caused by industrial stoppages, as if in some twisted way they can show that 2 wrongs make a right. What we have seen over the past week are statements by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which are verging on the neurotic. We heard him say that the Budget has not worked. Of course he avoids the fact that the Budget has not even been passed. How it can work without having been passed I do not know. The Leader of the Opposition has been making these constant dishonest charges which he cannot make stick. He made the same sort of charges last night when he said that he believes public servants are having their telephones tapped. When he was asked how he knew this he said that he thought some of them thought they were having their telephones tapped. 
The Leader of the Opposition continues to make these gaffes and in so doing he is destroying the Liberal Party. What the Opposition has to live with is that this Opposition looks like being the first Opposition in 75 years to oppose Supply. Over the weekend the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)-  the NCP- said that the Prime Minister's lust for power was getting the better of him. This is one of the greatest examples of double think we have ever heard. If you have power you do not lust for it. Surely the Leader of the National Country Party is the one who is lusting for power. We then had the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that the Governor-General will have to intervene and throw out Australia's elected government. That statement is not just merely neurotic; it is almost hysterical. Supposedly the reason for the Senate's actions and attitudes during this period is the Government's attempt to raise loans overseas, which is exactly what the previous Government did. No one has told the Australian people what is wrong with trying to raise money overseas. This is why the Opposition has not got the guts to censure the Government. This is why the Opposition has not even yet used the forms of the House to move a censure motion in relation to this matter. The Opposition has not even used all the forms available to it. The reason for this is that the Leader of the Opposition has not the courage to take on the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a debate on this issue. He has not the courage of his convictions. 
The great debate is about the Senate and its role. As we know every 6 months since we came to office there has been a constant threat of denial of Supply. I have here a transcript of an Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of 21 September 1974.  Senator Withers, Mr Snedden, Mr Gorton  and  Senator Townley  were interviewed. It was this constant speculation which led  Mr Fraser  to eventually axe  Mr Snedden.  In that interview  Mr Snedden  said clearly that the Senate was not a governing House. What he did at that time and what he did again earlier this year was to speculate on denying Supply. This is one of the reasons that the present Leader of the Opposition moved to kill him off. 
The parliamentary system is being undermined, yet the present Leader of the Opposition, when he came into power earlier this year, made some fine speeches on the rights of the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  constantly bleats that the Senate is a democratically elected House and that it has certain powers. The Senate is not a popular House. It is elected on a State basis. It claims to be a popular House because everyone casts a vote in a Senate election, but the act of casting a vote does not mean democracy. Votes are cast in Russia. The mere act of casting a vote does not necessarily make the Senate a democratic House, and it is not. The Senate is elected by the most complex and fanciest of franchises, imbued with so much mystery as to confuse the greatest enthusiast. Members of the current Senate are supported by more than a quarter of a million fewer people than are members of the House of Representatives. At the last Senate election 200 000 more people voted for the Australian Labor Party than for the other parties combined. The situation in the Senate of course has been compounded by the Bunton and Field appointments. The reason that the Opposition has the numbers in the Senate is the death of  Senator Bert  Milliner. 
The Opposition's idea of convention and tradition is to follow them when it is to the advantage of the Opposition but to wheel in the strict legality when it is not to the advantage of the Opposition. What is happening is a blatant, unmitigated, unabashed pursuit of private party interest. Let us take the facts as they are. The Senate has chosen to exercise powers over finance. This is seeking to restore a status quo ante. It is a reactionary House. Consequences of the Senate's doing this, cannot be ignored. There is simply no way that any self-respecting government in the House of Representatives can tolerate the situation where the Senate can throw the House of Representatives to the people without going to the people itself. If the Senate wishes to act like a popular House let it be stripped of all the props which sustain its dignified posturing. If it is to be a popular House let an end be put to the fancy franchise by which senators hide from the voters. They should stand in a clear and direct relationship with the electors, as do the members of this House. Each senator should be known to his electors and by bis electors and not be hidden away on a ticket almost as long as some biblical scroll. 
Where is the responsibility of a senator? It is elusive, deceptive, interminate and unenforceable. No senator has the clearly defined accountability to the public that a member of the House of Representatives has. Like all multi-member shows each hides behind and obscures the other. These are the shadowy, grey, misty and unknown people who, according to the statecraft of honourable members opposite, would determine the direction of the government of this nation. The government of this nation is determined in this House. If the Senate is to so behave let us make it a popular House, a House whose members are readily known and identified by the electorate. The only way to deal with such a chamber is to reform its electoral basis and bring its members into the open. The Senate's objections to the present Appropriation Bills are not based on British precedent. That would be ridiculous. Obviously the Opposition has no regard for British precedent or tradition. It is but trivia in the eyes of the Opposition. A former distinguished leader said he was British to the bootstraps. This was not so, and I am afraid that his statement, to which reference has been made tonight and which saddens me, is further evidence of this. No parties are so anxious to throw British parliamentary tradition to the wind as are the Liberal and Country parties. Traditions of Magna Carta, Bill of Rights and Parliament mean nothing to them, other than ancient his.torial interest. 
The issue of the Senate is one of responsible government. Governments are responsible to the House of Representatives; only the House of Representatives can make government operational. The Senate cannot. The Senate cannot keep a government in office. It can only throw it out. It has purely a negative position. All selfrespecting politicians expect to have positive roles. But not the Senate. It relishes in the negative role. It exalts in it. It is at its finest hour in politics. Such are the aspirations and ambitions of the men in another place led by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The question is that of responsible parliamentary government. The fatal, tragic flaw of the Australian parliamentary system is that we have a Senate. Senate with power but without responsibility. As I said earlier, power without responsibility, as Baldwin once observed, has been the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages. 
The Senate only has the power to remove a government, the power to bring the government of the nation to a halt. It has neither the power nor the responsibility to provide Australia with a government. A writer on constitutionality, Walter Bagehot, in 1 860 stated: 
No constitution maker nowadays would frame a constitution with two equal assemblies; such a system would create chaos. 
His prediction has been fulfilled. The objective of the Opposition is to create chaos. This has been achieved. The Government is responsible to the people; the Senate is not. The Senate is a House not responsible or sufficiently empowered to govern. We cannot have the House of Representatives in a permanent state of election. Hacket earlier this century wrote: 
Either responsible governments will kill federalism or federalism will kill responsible government. 
The Senate is now doing so. It is killing not only responsibility but also government. The Senate is lolling both responsible government and government of any kind. 
This is a constitutional crisis of the highest order. Is a rump House such as the Senate to hold sanctions over the popular House? I reject that proposition not only as a supporter of the present Ministry but also as a supporter of the Parliament, a democratic, responsible Parliament. It is a matter of principle. This is the House that is responsible for providing the Government. It should have the full authority to do so. It is abhorrent that a House with no such power, authority or responsibility should have the power to throw governments out. This is contrary to all our traditions. It heralds the end of responsible parliamentary government. These are the sorts of steps that the Opposition is taking, has taken, and threatens to continue to take. 
My question is to the Prime Minister. Will he inform the House whether^ if the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Bill 1975 is passed, he will be permitted in law to direct the tapping of telephones? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1) In view of his earlier answer that the compilation of a full list of interdepartmental committees would involve time and expense which he was reluctant to authorise, has the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, as part of its research program, compiled a list of interdepartmental committees active in the period 1 June- 30 September 1974. 
) If so, will he seek the public release of that list. 
My question is to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. What impact will the delay in passing the Budget have on the administration of the Defence Service Homes Act? Will it mean any further extension in the waiting list for new applicants? What- can be done to prevent people losing homes and in some cases deposits? 
I address my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. Following a previous statement to the House by the Minister, will he now advise whether the failure of the Senate Opposition to pass the Appropriation Bills will result in further restrictions of the facilities available to members of the Parliament? 
It is a signal honour to represent the people of Werriwa in this place, and I am especially pleased because many of those people are people I represented before. It is a greater honour to follow Edward Gough Whitlam into this Federal Parliament. Gough Whitlam is the most remarkable man that I have ever met. Gough Whitlam is one of the most remarkable men ever in the Australian Labor Party. He was one of the most able and dominant parliamentarians Australia has ever seen. He was surely one of Australia's most magnificent Prime Ministers. Gough Whitlam was a man not without faults but always a man far greater than any of his detractors, and I name those people in this place as well. Apart from Gough Whitlam 's ability, capacity and personality, there were his ideas. He restructured the Australian Labor 
Party. He rewrote many of its policies. He focused the Australian Labor Party on the future. He was a man who always stood for social reform and who will always stand for that. He was a man who was proud and made one proud to be an Australian. Edward Gough Whitlam brought the Australian Labor Party into government. He gave hope to a generation of Australian men and women. He pulled us out of Vietnam, he ended conscription, and he gave an Australian imprint to our foreign relations. He changed forever the nature of federal politics in this country, and not even the most conservative government this country has ever seen, the present Government, can ever change that. 
Today,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I want to bring before you the grievance of the people of Werriwa. The. size of the Australian Labor Party vote in the recent by-election is the greatest evidence of that grievance that I could possibly bring forward. Perhaps the sickest moment in my previous membership of this place was in 1975 when I attended a function put on by the Beverley Park Orthopaedic Hospital in my electorate. A  Mr Len  Evans and  Mr Michael  Baume, the then candidate for the seat of Macarthur, gained a great deal of hilarity by telling a whole series of anti-Margaret Whitlam jokes. Of course that was the time when the Liberal Party was stigmatising a generation of Australians, blaming the unemployed for unemployment by calling them dole  Sludgers.  In the by-election in Werriwa there was no need for us to tell antiTamie Fraser jokes. We simply focused on the Budget. We simply focused on the Fraser Government's tottering credibility. We simply focused on this Government's cynicism, dishonesty and hypocrisy. We cannot trust  Mr Fraser.  The people of Werriwa do not trust  Mr Fraser,  and they gave ample evidence of that in the by-election. 
One needs to look at the figures a lot more carefully than they have been looked at so far. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said there was the usual 10 per cent swing back to Labor and that this reflected the fact that necessary tough decisions were taken in the Budget. However, some of those necessary tough decisions have already been reversed by the Government. Was the tax on accrued leave at the level first projected necessary? Was it necessary to means test kids' incomes? Was it necessary to tax the handicapped? Was it necessary to go on breaking promises to pensioners? Was it necessary to continue breaking so many promises to so many people in this country? Was it necessary to project the sort of equity this Government projects? Was it necessary to give 43 per cent of the benefits of the tax cuts to the top 10 per cent and then nine months later rip those benefits off and give 55 per cent of the people a worse deal than before the cuts? Was it an equity proposition that this Budget brought down no capital gains tax, no tax on excess profits and no action against family trusts and gave an extra $340m to oil companies while trying to tax kids and the handicapped? 

 Mr Coleman said that the trend in Werriwa had just reverted to the usual one and that there was no signficance in that. Of course  Mr Coleman  is a rather curious fellow. When he lost the seat of Earlwood by 10 per cent, he said that the drift was back to the Liberals. So he was happy with that result. That was a magnificent result. I spent all day yesterday in the electorate of Wollondilly, a seat that had been held by another leader of the Liberal Party. I predict that  Mr Coleman  will lose Fuller. The Liberals have lost Earlwood, they will lose Fuller, and there is a big chance that they will lose Wollondilly. The situation in New South Wales is that no Liberal leader can find a seat safe enough for him to hold. 
Let us look at some of the swings. The swing was not uniform. In the area that I represented before- perhaps only the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  would understand the significance of this- the Labor vote in the subdivision of Bradbury swung from 37.6 per cent to some 58 per cent, a swing of over 20 per cent. The Campbelltown subdivision, which is the largest subdivision in New South Wales, swung by 19 per cent. The Liberal vote, which in recent years has been as high as 58 per cent there, is now 26.3 per cent. There were two large booths, Airds North and Curran, where the Liberal candidate received less than nine per cent of the vote. The Liberal vote in the Green Valley subdivision was 14.5 per cent. We won six major booths that we had never won before. 

 Mr Coleman also dignified himself by putting forward the rather shaky rationalisation that the burden of Gough Whitlam had been lifted and that that is why the people had swung back. That is absolute nonsense.  Mr Whitlam  has always been a very popular man in his own electorate, and the part that  Mr Whitlam  represented swung least. It was the part that he had not represented for 26 years that swung the most but, even so, we are talking about the area that  Mr Whitlam  represented as one that has always been very safe. What we need to realise is that if all that area- Cabramatta and Fairfield- had been in the electorate the swing would have resulted in the highest vote that has ever been recorded by the Labor Party in Werriwa. 
Green Valley rose from only 73 per cent to 78.9 per cent but it is rather hard to improve on an area that votes between 70 and 80 per cent. Of course, the Liberal candidate lives in a housing commission home in that area and represents it as an alderman. He has a strong personal vote, and he gained 14.5 per cent. I am rather sorry for  Mr Sadler.  First of all,  Mr Baume,  the honourable member for Macarthur endorsed him. Then, to add insult to injury,  Mr Fraser  came along and represented him. Of course, they both told fibs. People cannot trust Fraser. That is what the people of Werriwa have said. The unemployed cannot trust Fraser. In 1975  Mr Fraser  said that he would give jobs to all who wanted them. Werriwa is an electorate where the rate of unemployment has trebled. The present Government will not even hold a conference on unemployment. Only  Mr Street  is prepared to come clean on unemployment.  Mr Hamer  will hold a conference on unemployment but no one will in this Government will. 
-Well, of course  Mr Hamer  has allocated some money for the unemployed in Ballarat, strangely enough, because a by-election is coming up there. The pensioners cannot trust this Government. They were told that they would get quarterly rises in their pensions and that those rises would flow through automatically. What has happened? This Government, with a majority of 55 members, had to run to the Governor-General to get an extra early election. It was worried about its security in office, I suppose. But the pensioners now face a situation of having one rise a year and that rise will be back dated by some formula. So they will get an extra $1.75 a week in November of this year to cope with the year's increase in costs. Of course, probably their rentals will go up $1 in July of the coming year. So that will give them an increase of 75c. Big deal! The pensioners cannot trust  Mr Fraser. 
The Ingleburn Army camp voted for the Labor Party for the first time ever. The men are sick of going on simulated exercises with outdated equipment and two bullets per man if they are lucky. The Macarthur Development Board, which is the body responsible for jobs in the southern part of Werriwa, was promised in 1975 that continuation of federal funding would be a fact. Of course, it received absolutely nothing this year. The original agreement setting up the 
Macarthur Development Board in September 1975 did not involve any State Government funding. It was to be funded by Commonwealth loans right through.  Mr Fraser  is consistent. When he spoke on the Bill Hayden Budget on 26 August 1975 he said: 
We would have suspended the growth centre expenditures and made special economies in the urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. What is the point of growth centres when there is no growth? 
Finally,  Mr Fraser  has gone to the part of Werriwa that both the honourable member for Macarthur and I previously represented and has seen that there has been growth. There has been 16.8 per cent growth. It is the fastest growing part of Australia at present, but he did not believe that there was any growth. When  Senator Carrick  came into the electorate in 1975 he said that the Government would continue the funds. The people in Werriwa do not trust Fraser. The housing industry has been hit by this Budget. The builders in Werriwa do not trust Fraser. There has been cynicism, lies and hypocrisy. The people in Werriwa no longer trust even the figures that have been presented in the Budget. The Budget was fiddled. We were told that $90m would be saved on family allowances. Now the Government has gone back on that. The saving will be only $22m now. The people in Werriwa do not trust Fraser. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister regard the consistency of Labor support, as reflected in both the Werriwa by-election and the New South Wales election last weekend, as a rejection of his Budget and his economic policies and as a reflection of the lack of credibility in which he and his Government are held? 
-Despite the enthusiasm of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  all he has done today is indulge in a general speech on interest rates. I remind the House of the terms of the matter of public importance which are: 
The failure of the Government to meet its promise to reduce interest rates by two per cent over 12 months. 
We are not debating generally the question of interest rates and who has the best policy or anything like that; we are debating the Government's promise. The Opposition wants to bring home to the Australian people that here again is another broken promise. The Treasurer spoke about what hypothetically would happen given a certain situation, given the implementation of the alternative Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The Treasurer is avoiding the question of the matter under discussion; that the Government has failed to honour yet another promise. The Treasurer quoted the Leader of the Opposition with respect to the  Policy Makers  program on 1 December last year. I must point out that in the  Age  of 3 December 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was reported as saying: 
It is a target that can be and will be achieved. 
The target was a 2 per cent reduction in interest rates. That was on 3 December, so the promise held. What has happened in 1978? What the Leader of the Opposition said at that time has been proved to be true. While the Government was trying to jawbone down the banking community and the permanent building societies all responsible commentators at that time were saying that it was economic nonsense. One could quote  Sir John  Cadwallader of the Bank of New South Wales at that time or  Mr Cameron  of the Australian Bankers Association. Even on 30 June this year The Australian Housing Industry Association when making a submission to the Government stated: 
We are of the view that the recent 0.5 per cent reduction - 
In interest rates- has had the effect of inhibiting the mobilisation of funds for housing. The Association therefore further recommends that interest rates applicable to the housing market remain at current levels until such time as market forces warrant a change. 
What the Leader of the Opposition was saying at that time was accurate and remains as accurate today. A more recent statement was made by  Mr Cameron,  the Director of the Australian Bankers Association Research Directorate. He said that there was some prospect that the availability of finance could be reduced if a reduction in housing interest rates occurred in isolation from market trends. He said further 
The cost of housing finance is geared to the cost of mobilising funds for housing- to interest rates paid on deposits. 
So what the Leader of the Opposition was pointing out on 1 December was an economic verity. It was the same on 1 February; it is the same today. What we are talking about today is the question of another promise broken by the Government. Last November and December on several occasions the Prime Minister said that interest rates would fall. Specifically, he said that they would fall by 2 per cent over 12 months. This was made a promise during the 1977 election campaign. The 12 months is now nearly up. Interest rates have not fallen, and this has been pointed out today by the Leader of the Opposition, particularly in the table that he has had incorporated in  Hansard.  Even on 20 August this year in commenting on the Budget the Prime Minister, in praising this most brutal document for a generation, said that the Government's policies had slashed inflation and created conditions in which interest rates can continue to fall. He stressed that interest rates are a key to economic recovery. Of course he did not mention at that time the breaking of his earlier promise or, more importantly, that the Government was carrying out policies which would prevent interest rates from falling from the time of the Budget on. 
We want to draw the attention of the Australian public to the process of government in this country in which promises are consistently broken. A while ago the Treasurer indulged in a bit of semantics. He was saying that what the Prime Minister said were predictions. We interpret predictions as promises. More and more the Australian public is interpreting promises from this Government as lies. It is one thing in politics to make promises which circumstances prevent one from keeping. That is unfortunate. It is one thing in politics to make promises which one has no intention of keeping- the kind of situation we had after the 1975 election when the Prime Minister said that his election promises were inoperable. That is cynicism. It is another thing in politics to make promises which one knows one cannot keep. This kind of promise is the promise on interest rates. That is just plain dishonesty. 
The reason for the Prime Minister's lack of credibility in the area could be lack of economic literacy. I think we can wipe out that explanation because the Government has access to advice by the Treasury, the Reserve Bank and all the other people that we have access to in the wider community. Perhaps it just sounded nice to have this in the policy speech. After all, he got away with broken promises before. Let us look at the very basics in this matter. Very basically, the Government's promise of lower interest rates is incompatible with its money supply strategy. The real money supply is hardly moving. It has hardly moved over the past 18 months and it is probably now at the lower end of the Budget's prediction of 6 to 8 per cent. The Government has stuck with its money supply strategy. Therefore interest rates cannot come down without other effects on the economy which the Government seems to wish to avoid. For example, if interest rates come down, given our balance of payment situation, a way out could be a devaluation of the Australian dollar. Again if one works circuitously through that course it leads to higher interest rates. Devaluation does not seem to be on; otherwise we would not be borrowing so heavily abroad. 
If the Government were serious about reducing interest rates it would need to introduce a package of measures, which it clearly does not wish to. It wants to stick to this inflation first, money supply tightness strategy. That is its choice, but let us not kid ourselves on what this strategy implies. This sort of package would not just involve tampering with the Australian savings bonds rates and other interest rates and cajoling the private banks but would have to involve the stimulation of demand and an increase in the money supply. The Treasurer has clearly indicated that this is just not on. Just as the Government has broken its promise on lower interest rates for the Primary Industry Bank and slugged the public on the question of non-tax deductibility of housing loan interest payments it has broken its overall policy promise on a general reduction of interest rates. The Leader of the Opposition has clearly demonstrated that. It is clear that now in this situation- given the promises- the Government cannot bring down interest rates by the promised 2 per cent over the next three weeks. That is why the Treasurer has had to argue in general terms. He cannot live with the truth of what is contained in this matter of public importance. 
Those in the money markets, those with detailed knowledge of finance, know that the long end of the bond market may come down, but little hope is held of any reduction at the short end of the market at least until the end of next June. The Government is not being honest. It has said that the deficit has to be held in check so that inflation can decrease, interest rates can decrease and employment will increase. Last year the deficit blew out by $ 1 100m and inflation came down, but employment decreased. If the deficit blows out again this year as it surely will due to the fiddling in the Budget calculations, again interest rates will not be able to fall. The September figures show that the deficit will be $3,500m, despite what the Government says. The Government is sticking to its money supply strategy. The Budget hopes for 6 per cent inflation, a 4 per cent increase in gross national product and a 6 to 8 per cent growth in money supply as measured by M3; that is, a contraction of 2 per cent to 4 per cent in real terms of the money supply. Given normal supply and demand relationships, I do not know how the Government can argue that the cost of an item will fall when its supply is falling. Perhaps the shortfall could be made up by an increase in velocity, but this again pushes interest rates up. 
It has been calculated that if interest rates dropped two per cent bond holders would make a capital gain of $6 on every $100. This conflicts with the Government's policy of trying to stimulate the private sector. All the Government is doing is stimulating people who have enough money to put into bonds. That is not bringing about investment. The Government clearly does not want people to get out of paper. The Budget mentioned the attractiveness of Australian interest rates to overseas investors and hoped that some funds would flow in. We have a balance of payments problem as does the United States, but it will not be reducing interest rates. If the interest rate in Australia dropped by 2 per cent, domestic funds would flow to the northern hemisphere and overseas funds would not flow in. As we are borrowing heavily overseas already to avoid speculation on the Australian dollar and to meet commitments, it is perfectly obvious that a reduction of interest rates by two per cent is not wanted by the Government because it is incompatible with its policies towards our balance of payments position. 
A reduction of 2 per cent in interest rates is incompatible with both the Government's internal money supply strategy and its external policies towards balance of payments. Interest rates are not fixed by soothing Sunday night radio talks to the electors of Wannon nor are they gleefully manipulated as the income tax rates were in the present Budget which, of course, represented another broken promise. Interest rates are linked inextricably with other aspects of our economy's working, and in economists' jargon it is always dangerous to try to fix too many nominal magnitudes. The Government cannot reduce interest rates in the short term. I hope I have shown that it promised to do so when it knew it could not. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House tonight to the critical situation that is faced by the Sydney City Mission with respect to the continuation of the training scheme it has been running for unemployed youth in Green Valley at Miller. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations approved this scheme, the Vocational Employment Training scheme, as a pilot program. It commenced on 9 January 1978 and had its first intake of trainees early in March. This group has now passed through the program; the excellent course was completed on 13 October. Of the 43 students 41 have been placed in employment and the other two students soon will be. It has proved to be a most successful scheme which has been well thought out and well executed. The Sydney City Mission applied to the Government for another allocation in the light of its experience to train another 120 people. 
To summarise the present situation that is so urgent and critical, the Government has knocked back this application. Staff will have to be dismissed and the 120 people will not be trained. The Government is taking the view that it should handle all such training schemes and not fund outside bodies. Some representatives of the Mission came here today and I must say, in all fairness to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  that he spent an hour with them to see what help he could afford. An investigation is being carried out to see whether the Mission is eligible under the terms of the Employment Program for Unemployed Youth scheme which is administered by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  However, I must stress that the EPUY scheme is not equivalent to the VET scheme. 
The scheme put up by the Sydney City Mission was unique. The program itself was specially aimed at preparing people who have been disadvantaged or disabled by educational, social, economic or physical circumstances to live productively and independently in the community. The aim of the program was to effectively increase their vocational motivation, interest and readiness for work and ability to cope with life; to prepare them for gainful employment and to assist them in matching their newly-acquired skills to jobs; to help them towards self-management, to help them towards a sense of responsibility in appropriate social and vocational roles. This was achieved by providing a three-strand program of vocational training, life skills training and remedial education. It is a very unique program. 
The Government is saying that the EPUY scheme is equivalent. But if we look at the ones that are operating in the Liverpool area we see that these are only for durations of six to 12 weeks. The VET scheme is more equivalent to the National Employment and Training scheme than to anything else, but there are real differences in terms of the people being helped. The NEAT scheme, particularly, relates to people able to avail themselves of technical college and higher education which has been in operation prior to the present unemployment situation occuring. The Special Youth Employment Training program, which is another scheme, is in fact I think more of a subsidy for employers. This excellent scheme conducted by the Sydney City Mission does not really fit the criteria but is doing an excellent job with a specific group of people. The Government cannot let it wither on the vine. The Government will not set any precedent by reallocating funds for the continuation of the scheme, and it knows that it is a very successful and viable program. The Government or the Department had adequate time to tell the Sydney City Mission that the scheme which runs for 32 weeks, would not be continued instead of leaving it to the end to tell them. 
The Government will argue that the scheme was costly. Indeed, the first pilot program scheme did cost a fair amount of money per trainee, but the new program involves about half of that cost. The 120 people that were to have been trained in the coming period- if they had not gained employment for the next year- would have represented a saving to the Government of some $103,000 in terms of the unemployment benefit. So the scheme is an excellent one and it is worthy of re-examination. I hope that this application is not knocked back irrevocably, that the interview today with the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has not been to no avail. The people concerned also endeavoured to see the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  but he was unavailable. They also tried to see  Senator Carrick.  The scheme should not be allowed to wither on the vine. It is doing an excellent job in dealing with a specific group of people and must be allowed to go on. 
It gives me somewhat a sense of deja vu to come back here after nearly three years and to speak on defence matters. I must start off by saying, of course, that my side of the chamber totally opposes the arming of the FI 1 ls with atomic weaponry and that we adhere to all that is said with respect to nuclear non-proliferation. 
I am here today representing another electorate which has a large defence component. When I was a member of this House previously, I was privileged to represent the electorate of Macarthur which had in it HMAS  Albatross  and also HMAS  Cresswell  nearby. In Werriwa we have the Ingleburn Army establishment and just over the border, in the seat of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  there is the Holsworthy-Moorebank complex. In the three years that I was privileged to represent HMAS  Albatross,  I found that I had a great deal of admiration and respect for the officers and men in the armed forces and for their real and sustained views on the defence of this country. 
I do not come here to seek to wreak any revenge on the honourable member for Moreton, the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  but I would like to point out, whatever the intentions of anyone who holds this very diffcult job and no matter what his enthusiasm may be, that other things get in the way. When we were in government, despite all the attacks on Lance Barnard, we found that we could not do many of the things that we wanted to do with regard to defence. I now feel that the present Minister's chickens are now coming home to roost. I even fear that his abject statement of yesterday was not the final chicken. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  might have a few more chickens yet to come. 
When I was previously a member of this place I was also privileged to be the secretary of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence under  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Morrison.  I well remember what the then Opposition said about its expectations for the defence forces. So I checked  Hansard  and the Press files for those three years and found that my memory was fairly correct. The honourable member for Moreton asked two questions on defence in 1972, said nothing in 1 973 and said almost nothing in 1 974. Of course, he was not the shadow spokesman for defence at that time. The shadow spokesman for the then Opposition was the then member for Barker who did not speak in this House so much as drip acid. When the honourable member for Moreton assumed the responsibilities for defence for the Liberal Party he at least treated us to Burkean phraseology, good humour and allusions to past generals such as Theodosius who, I think, was from the fourth century A,D. 
Or the fifth century A.D. He alluded also to Wavell and treated us to biting sarcasm. He labelled  Mr Barnard  as 'living evidence of life after death' and, on one other memorable occasion, as 'the most complete tragedy the nation has ever known'.  Mr Barnard  got terrific serves from the honourable member for Moreton. No one has ever doubted the honourable member for Moreton 's interest in defence but I put on the record, now that he is in the hot seat, that some of these comments were most unfair. We heard of our not being able to defend Sydney on a sunny Sunday afternoon, that the Canberra hills could not be defended by a cadet corps and all these sorts of things. But now the boot is on the other foot, and often in the Minister's mouth. The often vicious personal criticism by the then Opposition of  Mr Barnard  centred on men, equipment and organisation. I guess that much of the time all we speak about is money. There is this interminable debate about the percentage of gross national product going to defence and I do not think there is much sense in boring the chamber again with figures. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  put more figures into  Hansard  yesterday with respect to this and to the three-year averages. 
When in government we picked up the recommendations of the Jess committee on conditions and, of course, this provoked many resignations. I well remember the criticisms at that time about the number of resignations. Perhaps those criticisms were very valid because it takes a lot of time to train an officer in the armed Services and a sudden bulge in the number of people resigning was a matter for real concern. It was also a matter in peacetime that allowed promotion of some of the younger officers. But the Opposition of that time bleated loud and long, particularly in respect of the Army. I think it was General MacDonald who said that we needed 38,000 men in the Army. We said that the figure should be 34,000 which was our target. We were criticised virulently for that. The figure is now 31,900. If people are going to talk about the numbers in the Army as if this is a matter of dramatic importance, they want to stick to some of the figures when they achieve office. The last conference of the Returned Services League pointed out that the Army did not have any bullets or, if it did have bullets, that many of them were defective. We now see reports in the newspapers that ammunition is lacking. I know in the electorate adjoining mine that the Army is using old ammunition for mortars and that four out of five exercises for some units are cancelled. 
Going beyond these immediate and rather small concerns, let us look at the five-year rolling procurement program which was brought in with such a flourish on, I think, 4 November 1976. This five-year program has now effectively become a 10-year program. If we do the calculations there is a shortfall of some $400m in terms of the weapons procurement element of that supposed $ 12,000m program. I also remember that we were abused for putting a couple of squadrons of Mirages in mothballs. I think that it is now a question of saying: 'Thank God we did'. I remember arguing many times in this chamber that the Mirage was more than adequate to meet any likely opposition in our region and yet the then Opposition was adamant on the urgency of its replacement. It said that when it came to government the Mirage would be urgently replaced by 1977. Now it is to be refurbished. One of the reasons- I do not think that it is the key reason- that the FI 5, for example, is not available with respect to the TFF is that there is a great chance that we could not even get it now if we wanted to. By the time we could buy it, its production run would have ceased. There may be some difficulty in gaining entry into the programs for the other four aircraft under review. I think that is illustrative of the problems with lead times and equipment. 
I remember in the Estimates debate in 1975 that the then Minister made some comments about the few Rapier missiles that we were buying. But I noted from the newspaper the other day, even though we committed the country to buying Rapier missiles at that time, that they are only now coming through. This is the problem with defence equipment- there is a very long lead time. Although we were attacked for not buying lots of equipment in 1973 and 1974, the problem was that very little equipment was ordered that would have fed through at that time. Admittedly we were abused and we cancelled the DDL program, but, as honourable members know, the specification of 12 destroyers had rapidly become three cruisers and we had to have a look at that again. The FFG, which was then attacked and which has now become the star attraction of the Minister's catalogue, was also something which we had to order and for which we had to go through the process of procurement. Even now the third one that we are going to buy will not add to our fleet numbers. 
In the statement yesterday I do not think that there was sufficient reference to naval air power. I think that people now accept more and more that there is no chance of getting a sophisticated carrier force. But I think that the concept of naval air power must be stressed in this country. If we look at the list of goodies, which was touted out again yesterday, it seems to me to be the same old list that we have been trotting out for something like three or four years. I would think that over two-thirds of the buys for which credit is being claimed were initiated during the time of the Labor Government. I can well remember the jest of the honourable member for Moreton when he asked: 'Why 53 Leopard tanks? Why 8 LRMP aircraft? Why not 53!4? Why not 6? Why not 10?' Perhaps he had some information on this, but if one is going to make some funny little jibes about the number of items of equipment that are bought, I guess that by and large one relies on the requirement of the armed Services and on what the Budget parameters allow one to buy to prove the matter one way or the other. 
Let us look at the organisation and at what has happened with respect to that during the term of this Government. I should say that the Minister bristled with respect to our decisions on bands, cadets and the Army reserve. The reorganisation itself was opposed. But let us look at some of the organisations now under the present Minister and at the problems he faces. Even in the last few days we have seen headlines such as 'Naval Bungling' and 'Defence Plans Undermined by Treasury'. One headline was: 'They can't even count'. An article stated that a Liberal MLC said that planning procedures currently practised by the Department of Defence are inappropriate and a major impediment. I am not saying that that is all the fault of the Minister, but I would like him to admit that there are massive problems and, no matter what the ambitions and enthusiasm are of a single Minister for Defence, that he has great problems and needs the support of all of us in this chamber. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from  5.56  to  8  p.m. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. What efforts have been made by his Government to redeploy staff from Medibank, particularly in view of his election promises of 1975 and 1977 with respect to Medibank? Will he consider intervening to ensure that the Public Service Board redeploys Medibank staff? Is his Government willing to increase the offer of lump sum payments to employees to make such payments more realistic and more equitable in relation to the income maintenance provisions already agreed to and passed by the Public Service Arbitrator? Has his Government's publicity been making it clear that Medibank Private still exists and that people can register with Medibank Private for the universal benefit? 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that staff in the Bureau of Mineral Resources has been cut from a peak of 6 10 in 1 974 to 5 1 0 at 30 June this year and is to be cut further to a target of 495 by June 1979? Will these staff reductions force the BMR to cut or defer major projects, as claimed by  Dr Exon,  the secretary of the BMR group of the Professional Officers Association? In view of the valuable contributions made by the Bureau to the minerals industry in Australia, why is the Government attacking the BMR when the industry needs its support? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and is further to the question of my colleague the honourable member for Lalor. Is it a fact that Stawell Timber Industries was known by the Government to be in serious financial trouble when the Minister and his Department agreed to give the company preferential treatment? Is it also a fact that the company has gained Aboriginal housing contracts totalling more than $2m since early 1977 without submitting to competitive tender, even though this process is required by his Department's regulations? Has the Prime Minister twice discussed the difficulties of the company with its senior executives? Has the Prime Minister discussed them with the Minister? 
-I am sure that we have all enjoyed the discourse from the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  who led the defence on behalf of the Government. I say he led the defence for the Government because this Bill is utterly indefensible and honourable members opposite know it. There is no sense in arguing that point or in using sophistry. I tend to agree with what the right honourable member for Lowe said in respect of interest rates in general at the theoretic level. He challenged the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  to a debate with his five-year old daughter. This is the five-year old daughter, incidentally, who, the right honourable member for Lowe has said elsewhere, beats him at chess. I agree that there is nothing magical about interest rates. It is a question of supply and demand of money. But interest rates can be fixed by governments. What this debate is all about is not whether interest rates are magical but whether the Government when it took office made promises of concessional rates of interest. Of course I agree with the right honourable member for Lowe that the United States interest rate is 1 1 per cent and that the same interest rate applies to the Eurodollar. But how about honourable member's opposite telling that to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)?  Bill Hayden and I debated with the Treasurer recently the effect this Government's policies are having on interest rates. It was this Government that was trying to put up some magical theory about interest rates. It is this Government that is trying to bring down interest rates in this country by jawboning rather than by allowing market forces to operate. 
The right honourable member for Lowe says that we are doing fine in this country. We have about $4, 600m worth of borrowings and $3,000m worth of reserves. Yet this Government is trying to jawbone down interest rates. We all know that the right honourable member for Lowe has a long history of association with economic matters both as Minister for Primary Industry in the 1950s and as Treasurer in the 1 960s. As the former member for Grayndler said, his credentials for being Minister for Primary Industry at that time were a flat in Kings Cross, a geranium, a canary, and a plastic hose. Nevertheless he did not do too bad a job. We were very interested to hear him tell us about the origins of the Commonwealth Development Bank and that the legislation for this measure, this Primary Industry Bank, had been on the drawing board virtually since 1959. But why has it taken three years, for this Government to act when it had made a clear promise and when the need was so great, particularly in these last few years? Of course, the honourable member for Parramatta was not talking about the deficiency price scheme to which the honourable member for Lowe alluded with respect to the Australian Wool Commission. He was alluding to the fact that the Labor Government backed the floor price scheme for wool with the Australian Wool Corporation. . 
This is a Government of broken promises in many areas; it is a Government of shattered expectations; and indeed it is often a Government of lies. There is no avoiding the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in his November 1977 election speech about his 1975 election speech promise that the Primary Industry Bank would provide long-term loans for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. The Minister for Primary Industry in 1975 at a Western Australian farmers conference in Perth debated this subject with me. He said that a new national rural bank would provide long-term finance to producers at low rates of interest. There was no mention of 10 per cent of 12 per cent; it was low rates of interest. I think it was a startling piece of hypocrisy for the Minister for 
Primary Industry to say on 7 August 1978 that the aim of the Government in setting up the Primary Industry Bank had never been to provide cheap money for farmers. He said that the undertaking, the election promise, was only to lengthen the terms of loans. If not hypocrisy, that was a lie or a dishonest election bribe. 
There is no sense in saying, as do the apologists for the Government, that at no stage did the Government detail what it meant by 'concessional'. A concessional rate of interest surely means a lower rate of interest. The promises were made. The Primary Industry Bank has come to pass and it represents quite clearly a broken promise to the rural sector. Spokesmen from all rural organisations have stated that the Government has broken its promise. The Primary Industry Bank will lend at commercial rates. In fact it was going to start off at 1 1 per cent but the Minister for Primary Industry had to back down on that. The Primary Industry Bank will provide no facility that could not have been provided elsewhere within the banking system without the creation of a new agency. Even the length of the loans under this new proposal is a bit of a confidence trick when it is coupled with the relevant interest rates. Annual payments of 6 per cent over 15 years are roughly equivalent to annual payments at 10 per cent over 30 years. The point is that there is little reduction in annual repayments through extending the term of a loan repayment beyond 20 years at commercial rates of interest. The major factor influencing annual repayments of long-term loans is the rate of interest. The examples of repayment periods given by the Minister for Primary Industry when speaking of the Primary Industry Bank have always used the same interest rate in the calculation. He gives a repayment calculation over 10 years, 20 years or 30 years, but always at the same interest rate. He knows too that he is pinned down by his broken promise. Of course, the Government will argue that it is concessional because it is over a long term. 
Let us talk about what was expected by the rural sector, the people in the bush, because we need to talk about shattered expectations as well as broken promises. I well remember the Minister for Primary Industry constantly carping inside and outside this place throughout 1975. Then, at the request of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, the Labor Government made $20m available to the beef industry at 1 1  lA  per cent. That was in addition to funds being made available to the States through rural reconstruction agencies at much lower rates of interest. The rate for the Commonwealth Development 
Bank for term funds at that time under the Labor Government was  6Vt  per cent. On 12 February 1975 the present Minister for Primary Industry said in this Parliament that the rate for the beef industry should be 4 per cent. He built up the expectation that long-term assistance to the beef industry should be at the rate of 4 per cent. Of course, he ignored the fact that at that time loans at 1 1 per cent to the beef industry were being taken up a lot faster than the loans being made available cheaply through the reconstruction authorities. 
Again, the Minister was always critical of the fact that interest was charged on moneys loaned to the Australian Wool Corporation. I would like to know what his Government has done about that practice. He built up the expectation that the Australian Wool Corporation would be charged greatly reduced rates of interest. All through 1975 he was talking of 4 per cent and 6W per cent. There is no way he can wriggle out by saying that 10 per cent or 12 per cent for 30 years is concessional. He built up that expectation. As the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  has said, the rural sector was and is asking for some forms of additional finance. The Primary Industry Bank falls well below the expectations built up by spokesmen of this Government when in Opposition. That is why people such as  Mr Eckersley,  the  President  of the Australian Farmers' Federation, have said that it is little more than a joke. That is why the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  crossed the floor when the Bill was first introduced. That is why the rural organisations wanted more producer representation on the Bank Board. That is why  Mr Cassell  of the Cattlemen's Union said that the Primary Industry Bank was a sellout of primary producers and that it would be of little use if interest rates were around 10 per cent. That is why the Australian Wool Growers Corporation has stated that the farm finance debate is not over. 
Let us go into the background of rural finance in Australia. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics wrote a report entitled  A Review of Credit in the Australian Rural Sector  in which it was shown that primary producers owe about $3, 100m to financial institutions. The two main groups of lenders are the trading banks and the pastoral houses; the latter being basically onlending bodies. The BAE showed that there was little deficiency in the total availability of capital for primary industry but that there were some doubts about the ability and willingness of the Australian capital market to finance efficiently primary producers who were not commercial enough to justify trading bank funds but were not in a serious enough position to qualify for rural reconstruction loans. This was the only area where one could say that there was a gap in the availability of finance. The report of the BAE closely analysed some of the relationships between availability of money and interest rates, some of which the right honourable member for Lowe has referred to. For example, it noted that the banks had already allocated a substantial volume of funds as part of their normal lending to loans for specified purpose. Extensions of the purposes for which special purpose loans could be made could encourage the substitution from normal lending to lending through the special funds in the longer run. This could possibly limit the extent to which particular releases to these special funds increase the overall supply of funds to rural producers in the longer run. 
What we are talking about eventually is the availability of capital. If the Government wished to plug that gap for long-term lending all it really needed to do was to take a political decision to allow the Commonwealth Development Bank to make loans at concessional rates over longer periods. The Commonwealth Development Bank could have done it. But the trouble was that when the Government proposed this sort of measure it immediately provoked a hostile reaction from the conservative Australian Bankers Association- the private trading banks. While prepared to see the Commonwealth Development Bank as a lender of last resort, they were not prepared to see it in the front line where it would have provided competition, and that is how the present situation developed. The banks said that what was needed was a refinancing organisation, the effect of which has been that the banks still control the Primary Industry Bank at the going rate of interest. It is not a primary industry bank for farmers, it is a bankers' bank for bankers. It is not a farmers' bank, it is a bankers' bank. Eight out of 12 members of the Primary Industry Bank come from the private trading banks. 
It will be argued that the Primary Industry Bank has some independence. It does theoretically, but in practice this messy, unnecessary arrangement will result in the trading banks being able to foist their problem clients onto the Primary Industry Bank while they scoop the cream. They will put hard core debts into the refinance area. In hard times the private banking system will be able to shift out of the sector to some degree. Any supposed attribute of the Primary Industry Bank could have been accommodated by a revamped Commonwealth Development 
Bank. Having eliminated one attribute, the concessional interest rate, it surely would have been the simplest thing for the Government to set criteria for the length of loans for specific purposes for which the money was to be made available. I think that the Primary Industry Bank is an unnecessary joke. It is a great let-down. I do not know what good $80m will be for a sector where $3, 100m is the total size of the amount of money put out to it. That is not even 3 per cent of the total. Do we really need an extra bank to handle less than 2.6 per cent of the farm finances being made available? 
I am quite happy to go on record as saying that what the Government is doing is quite legitimate and is economically responsible. I think that what it is doing for the rural sector with respect to interest rates is also economically responsible. But it made the promise and it built up the expectations. To my mind, the Primary Industry Bank will be offering borrowing terms through the refinancing of loans by existing banks over long periods at current overdraft rates. That is economically responsible and is an addition to the already often more than normally advantageous provisions made by the banking system for the benefit of farmers. The current overdraft rate which will be charged by the Primary Industry Bank on loans of up to $ 100,000 is not a high one in terms of the overall availability of credit and the still historically high rate of inflation in this country today; nor is the rate of 12.5 per cent on larger loans. I do not think that the $30m in income equalisation deposits of farmers in any way necessarily means that the Government has borrowed cheaply from farmers to lend back dear. Income equalisation deposits bear an interest rate of 5 per cent but they also bear certain taxation advantages which make their actual rate of return considerably higher, especially for the more prosperous. Their purpose, like that of tax averaging provisions for rural producers, is to lower the marginal rate of tax paid by such producers over a period of years. If they were not considered to give a higher return than any alternative form of making provision for future income fluctuations, it is obvious that $30m would not have been salted away. 
The real objection that ought to be made to the Primary Industry Bank is the one I have already mentioned. It ought not to exist. It is totally superfluous and was created only as an election bribe. It is a rural fantasy of a bank which could lend funds at rates which would not reflect the interest rate structure in the economy as a whole. It cannot do this without receiving a much larger subsidy from taxpayers generally than it is already receiving. If the Government thinks it is desirable to ease up lending conditions for rural producers to some extent at present, then why does it not do this through the existing banking system? Why create a lot of shiny, new, highly paid jobs which only add to the cost of rural finance? There was nothing to stop the Government making additional funds available to the trading banks for lending to their rural producer clients. The banks know their clients well. They will be making recommendations as to which projects should be refinanced by the Primary Industry Bank. All they need is the funds. If for some reason it is thought that the trading banks should not control the funds, why not simply extend the function of the Commonwealth Development Bank? Of course, this would not do for this Government. The National Country Party, the Liberal Party, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry made a promise in the 1975 election campaign knowing full well that the promise did not mean what the farmers liked to think. Above all, there was never any intention of setting up the kind of generous and fatherly financial institution that every hard pressed small farmer dreamed about. 
In summary, what I am saying is that the real thing we are opposed to in this debate is the fact that the Government has broken another election promise. It has shattered expectations. It has created a bank that is a compromise. It has built up an expectation that rates of interest could be magically manipulated. It has built up the expectation that a concession could be extended. It has built up the expectation that a political decision could be taken with respect to the availability of funds and interest rates when it had no intention of doing so. What it has brought in is an unnecessary bank which is less than what it promised during the election campaign to the rural sector. 
-First of all, I should like to say how disappointed I am that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is not in the House tonight. Last week we debated the Primary Industry Bank Amendment BUI, and again the Minister was not in the House. I do not think it is very satisfactory that the Minister should simply come here and give a second reading speech, which basically is written for him by his Department, and then take no part in the debate. We have had the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)-  that is Killen of Cunnamulla and the Condamine- at the table for the Government and now we have the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  there. I have nothing against those Ministers, but if we are to raise matters in a debate on an issue as important as the beef industry I think the Minister himself should be here with his advisers so that at the end of the debate he can answer the queries raised. We need to have a few answers to some of the matters that have been raised. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  attacked my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  basically misunderstanding what the honourable member had said. All he said was that some charges had been made by the Cattlemen's Union which needed to be answered, particularly those in respect of entitlements and the traffic in entitlements. Similarly, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  was making the point only that he did not necessarily disagree with what  Mr Cassell  was saying but he did disagree very strongly with  Mr Cassell  using emotive terms such as 'Mafia'. I am sure that all members of this House who represent electorates where primary industry interests are concerned, particularly the beef industry, agree that there needs to be a mutuality of purpose, that we need to act as one for the sake of the beef industry. 
The Opposition is not opposed to these three Bills. I guess we are a little surprised at the steep increase in the levy, which is over 100 per cent for cattle and buffaloes, but of course, in a way it is an ambit arrangement in that it sets the upper limit. The Bills give us a chance to debate the levies on the industry and issues associated with the marketing of beef. In that context, I should like to quote from the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  this year, in which he said: 
Consideration has been given to levying producers to recover a greater share of the costs of providing export inspection services and cattle disease eradication campaigns. 
This year the Commonwealth Will pay some $25.5m to the States for the bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. Of that amount, about $7. 9m wil be recouped from the producers. Outlays for meat export inspection and animal health services undertaken by the Bureau of Animal Health are estimated at $35.5m, but only $3.2m will be recouped. It is not clear from the Treasurer's Budget Speech whether he wants to bleed more funds from producers for disease eradication expenditure or whether it is in the area of meat inspection that most of the grab will take place. The basis of the Government's commitment in this area has been to assist producers in competing overseas and to encourage exports. I am not so sure, as others are, that it is possible to cut expenditure or do away with meat inspection or with the dual inspection system. However, I point out that all members who have spoken in this debate have raised the problem of dual inspections. In fact, it has been raised in nearly every debate on the beef industry that I can recall. We need some answers on this matter. Someone has to pay because the overseas countries require certification of meat by the national government. Thus, export meat inspectors are employed by the Commonwealth and certify the exports of meat in accordance with the requirements laid down by the importing countries. Certification is a commercial necessity. Quite frankly, there are no overseas markets and no export earnings from meat without it. 
In the six years from 1973-74, and including estimated expenditure for 1978-79, a total of $ 136.5m has been spent on the meat inspection service. The Government has footed the bill for more than $106m, and that does not include a few extras amounting to $ 11.4m. I give those figures and raise the matter of the Treasurer's Budget Speech because if he reimposes the export levy we will be faced with a cost of $20m or $30m a year, which will be as nothing compared with the amount that has been spent by the Government in trying to get the beef industry out of trouble. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his most recent electoral talk and the Minister for Primary Industry have spoken in enthusiastic terms of the return of some prosperity to the rural sector. The part of the rural sector that has experienced the most distress over recent years has been the beef industry, particularly the beef specialists, and we are all pleased to see that at present conditions are better, in respect to both climate and markets. However, any improvement in the climate or in market access has little to do with the efforts of this Government which in my opinion, has done little of a lasting nature to assist the beef industry in the areas where it will count the most in the long term. Some extra money has been provided to help the beef industry through the difficult times since 1974, and reconstruction money has been allocated specifically for the beef industry. 
I am afraid that our Ministers now have a reputation worldwide of seeming to want headlines back home about what a tough fight they are putting up against the dragons of the European Economic Community, the United States Congress and the Japanese Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation. In fact, overseas correspondents have recently reported that the EEC officials are convinced that Australia is not really interested in getting trade concessions in Europe. First, we had the foray by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr 
Garland), who did little but annoy the EEC officials and Ministers with some puny sabre rattling. Next we had the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  who did some more of the same and allegedly amazed officials by announcing that he had obtained some assurances that barriers would soon be lowered to Australian exports of beef. 
The most recent headline catching trip was that of the Minister for Primary Industry, who knew full well before his departure that it was highly unlikely that President Carter would sign into law the countercyclical beef BUI, or whatever it is called. Strangely, the explanation given by President Carter for his decision did not mention that he had been lobbied by our Minister, but simply stated the truth, namely, that he wanted the option of being able to control imports and to have flexibility or some measure of controlling inflation. 
The point is that more Bills will be introduced into the United States Congress as the mid-term elections have not perceptibly changed America's political attitudes in the Congress or in terms of the electoral pressures on it. I hope that our Department and our Minister point out that, as exports constitute only something like 7 per cent of the total United States beef consumption, they have very little impact on stability of prices in that country and that to propose a countercyclical BUI is not really very sensible. We all know that in Australia's interests, it is better to have set import quotas each year. The beef lobbies in the United States, Japan and the EEC are just as strong, despite our constant sabre rattling, headline hunting and abuse, at times. 
The beef industry, I think, is another area where the Government's broken promises, or at least shattered expectations, are well in evidence. Polls of farmers on matters such as general policy approaches by the Government and specific policies such as petrol pricing clearly demonstrate this. We all know that the Australian beef industry has been in a financial crisis situation since 1974. The crisis of liquidity had its origins in the 1973 Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oU crisis; one consequence being the sudden and complete closure of the Japanese market to Australian export beef. Such a dramatic closure in an export market more than demonstrated inadequacies in the present methods of marketing Australian beef. I make the point that it is indeed unfortunate that in the ensuing four years research into beef marketing has centred on the quantification and dimensions of the cattle industry crisis rather than on providing a direction out of the crisis, both at the economic level and the political level, to ensure an improvement in the marketing structure of the Australian beef industry. 
Although I acknowledge that the seasons and markets have improved overall, I believe that the fundamentals of Australian agriculture itself are in fact unchanged. Any excessive short term optimism is not sufficient criterion for any long term policy formulation at this time. I do not want the producers to be carried away with the temporary upturn. In my previous occupation in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics I was associated for over a year with surveying primary industry in respect of horticulture. The results of these continuous surveys are publicly available. By using models based on survey figures it was shown recently by the BAE that some 15,000 wheat-sheep zone farms, particularly those under 500 hectares and even with small levels of debt, are now non-viable or will become non-viable in the next five to eight years. It was shown also that some 14,000 grazing-cropping farms in the high rainfall zone also are likely to be in severe financial difficulty in the next five to eight years. 
What we have to realise about the beef industry is that even in the really good years of 1973 and 1974- the boom years- many fellows in the industry were in trouble. The BAE recently published an article with an analysis on sensitivity built into models in terms of how the beef farms would respond to different situations. For example, in respect of people in the beef industry presently earning less than $5,000 a year in the pastoral zone, if prices for beef went up by 10 per cent there would still be 42 per cent of them in trouble, instead of 43.9 per cent; and so it goes on through the figures. In the wheat-sheep zone only 2 per cent of the people would be any better off, and in the high rainfall zone- that is where most of the beef producers are- only 3 per cent would be any better off. Looking at the situation of all producers in the pastoral zone, if beef prices went up by 10 per cent from the very low base at which it is at present they would only be 16.4 per cent better off; and so it goes on right through the figures again. Looking at the situation of all producers in Australia, if there was an increase of 10 per cent their incomes would rise by about 6.6 per cent. 
Although I think that the present situation is rosy, I think the long term future for Australian agriculture is still very problematical. We need to realise that what a lot of the surveys of the beef and grazing industries are showing is that the lower 25 per cent of producers are in desperate trouble, whereas the upper 25 per cent are doing exceptionally well. That is what makes it very difficult for the Government in applying a policy overall that would help all beef producers. In a rural sector where 20 per cent of income earners live below the poverty line and 38 per cent of the sector exists almost entirely on income earned off-farm, I think it is illusory to be optimistic because there is a short term upturn in the fortunes of the beef producers or to use this short term upturn as a reason for not formulating long term, if not visionary, policies. 
The models to which I referred incorporated various levels of inflation and, while no one would argue that lower inflation will not help, it will not greatly affect those predictions. The rural sector faces continuous pressures and the present measures of adjustment are not adequate if we look at the overall picture. Viability does not relate just to farm size, fertility or level of debt as any single explanation; the key immeasurable farm input is that of management. The reason why often small farms are viable and large farms are non-viable often relates to the ability of the individual farmer as a manager. As said earlier, the beef industry has been concerned particularly with marketing for some time now- ind quite rightly so. 
Some of my colleagues tonight have referred to  Mr Cassell  and his most recent emotional statements with respect to the beef Mafias. He says that there are cartels operating in various centres. I agree with the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who says that  Mr Cassell  has not produced any real evidence of this. I believe that there may well be collusion, but often it will not even affect the price. Often buyers may be aware of an excess of supply in certain markets, but again to prove it or to provide evidence of it is very difficult indeed. In some studies where small centres have been looked at and there have been only three or four buyers, compared to large centres where there have been many buyers, the price difference just simply has not been there; it has not been reflected in the sales figures. The only price difference that has been detected is in the smaller centres. Quite often there have been smaller lots in those centres and therefore there has been a premium paid in the larger centres for larger lots. Any time there is a shortage, any collusion falls away and the prices rise. By and large, I still believe that in the various systems of selling beef in this country the law of supply and demand still exists. Instead of highlighting alleged Mafias, I think that  Mr Cassell  should be pressing for more livestock market reporting services so that the farmers themselves can compare the prices being gained at different centres. I believe that, once we have decent reporting services, it will be quite probable that the differences in prices received from various centres will often reflect transport costs from those centres. 
The final point I would like to make is in respect of stabilisation. There has been a lot of talk in the beef industry about stabilisation. Quite often the farmers are thinking about stabilisation in the context of price support. If we are to have stabilisation in the beef industry there are quite a few problems to which the Government needs to address itself. The major problem is that, if we are to have price support, eventually some sort of storage will be needed, and then the problem is perishability. Of course, another problem is that we do not have sufficient product description at this time, as we do not yet have beef classification. There are other series of proposals centring on the buffer stock fund, which would be unpopular at present, because at most levels for which it has been proposed beef producers would be paying in now. But the logic, the rationale, behind a buffer stock fund for beef assumes that the fund can do better than the grower in terms of the funds of growers being paid in and paid out at various times in the beef cycle. I am not quite sure that that applies. There may be problems in capital markets, but I think the advantages of a buffer stock fund would be outweighed by other considerations. 
The final matter I wish to raise is that some growers have been a little concerned about the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation getting all this money for promotion purposes. I think the House would agree that promotion is excellent as long as there are marketing systems to take advantage of it. I am not sure that the AMLC has expanded far enough or fast enough, but at last it is getting expertise. I think we all hope that it soon will be able to get some new markets. As I said at the outset, the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. We are very much in favour of them. 
-As well as speaking about the Asian Development Bank, I wish first of all to make some comments on Australia's relations with Asia. Australia has certain problems in its relations with Asia. On the one hand, we see it as desirable to develop closer links with Asia for political and economic reasons. On the other hand, our political and social ties are with Europe and America and not with Asia. So Australians and Australian policy makers seem to regard Asia as a somewhat exotic and strange place. There is an important historical decision to be made here. Is Australia going to make a determined attempt to live with Asia or not? If Australia does decide to make a determined attempt to strengthen links with Asia, there are major economic benefits to be achieved in the next 20 to 30 years. It is now part of the latest conventional wisdom about the growth rates on the western Pacific rim and the Asian nations there. 
A number of countries in Asia are entering a rapid growth phase where trade will expand rapidly and incomes will rise quickly. If our economic and political relations with these countries are good, Australia is likely to benefit substantially from this rapid growth phase in Asia. Looking further into the future, Indonesia is likely to grow steadily and there is a large potential market there for Australian goods. But our relations with Asia are not particularly good at present. One option available for Australia is to decide, either unconsciously or consciously, that it wants to remain a European nation with strong links with Britain, Europe and America. This will be easier in the short run and will not be disastrous in the long run, but there are certain disadvantages. One disadvantage is that our long term economic growth rate is likely to be lower, while another is that we are likely to be seen increasingly as a sort of rich white South Africa in Asia. 
There are a number of reasons why Australian relations with Asia are not particularly good at present. Firstly, there is the matter of protectionist attitudes. Ten years ago when the Association of South East Asian Nations was formed there was a general expectation that nothing much would come from the new regional grouping. In fact, after a slow start, it is developing into a quite significant grouping. It is clear that the five member nations of ASEAN feel that there are substantial benefits to be gained from joining together in ASEAN and they are prepared to make a real effort to overcome the very big problems involved in holding the regional grouping together. In the wake of the 1974 economic recession in rich nations, protectionism in those rich nations has grown and the ASEAN nations have very quickly become aware of and very sensitive to protectionist attitudes in rich nations. Against this background Australia's protectionist attitudes have attracted increasing attention in ASEAN. It is fair to say that the ASEAN nations are much more aware of Australia's high levels of protection than was the case five years ago. It is also reasonable to expect that in the next four or five years criticism of Australia's protectionist attitude will grow. 
Australia has been able to buy time by promising to tackle the problem as soon as the Australian economy recovers, but we will not be able to rely on that excuse for much longer. The simple fact is that even that excuse is regarded as a somewhat hypocritical one by Asian leaders. The economic recession in Australia appears a fairly small problem to them when compared with the enormous problems of domestic poverty that most Asian nations have. Industries in Australia most likely to be affected include textiles, shoes and garments, and assembly industries such as automobiles, electronics and white goods. In the longer run, some of our primary industries- for example, the Australian sugarcane industry- might also run into trouble because of the very high levels of subsidy they receive. If is clear then that there is a close relationship between the need for industrial restructuring within Australia and our long term relationships with Asia. 
Secondly, there is the matter of cultural, social and economic differences. Australia is still very cut-off from Asia. What most Australians do not seem to appreciate is that economic growth rates have been quite rapid in Asia, admittedly from a low base, and that living standards in some parts of Asia are beginning to catch up quite rapidly with living standards in Australia. However, many Asians, especially in rural areas, are still very poor, although many members of the Asian middle class now have living standards equal to and even higher than those of many Australians. But Australians know very little of this. Very few Australians speak Asian languages. Very few 
Australians have any Asian friends and there is huie news about Asia in the Australian media. An enormous readjustment in the media and in our educational institutions will be required if Australia is going to make a serious attempt to live with Asia. As an example, universities are perhaps the most progressive and outward looking part of Australia's educational institutions, but as a general principle there is very little interest in Asia within Australian universities. 
Thirdly, there seems to me to be a sanctimonious attitude towards Asia. A holier-than-thou attitude towards many governments in Asia seems prevalent in Australia. This attitude is found in the Press, the Public Service, the Parliaments, and in educational institutions and trade unions. It is an enormous barrier to improved relationships with Asia. Many of Asia's leaders, if not most of them, are extremely well educated intelligent men who have been brought up in a very tough school. They are jealous of thenrights as leaders of independent nations; they are nationalistic; and they do not take kindly to advice from outside from white, rich, dogooders. 
An important characteristic of nearly all Western Asian leaders is that they are not Western liberals. They are ruling nations with enormous social problems, many of which are a legacy of Western colonialism, and they do not take kindly to being preached at. In this regard, their self confidence is growing. ASEAN has brought together five South East Asian nations, and their relations with each other are much more important than their relations with Australia. 
With a population of 14 million, Australia simply cannot afford to declare a sort of moral war with ASEAN, which has a population of 240 million. Unless we are very careful in our relations with Asia, we will soon come to be seen as white, rich, isolationist and sanctimonious. Examples of incidents that have done us harm in Asia in the past few years include Indonesia, Timor and Irian Jaya- and I am talking about the perceptions in Indonesia, not my own perceptions of the Timor issue. I do not wish to canvass the rights and wrongs of that, but I tend to agree with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman). 
The second example is the matter of drugs. Although we have put considerable pressure on Asian nations to deal harshly with drug sellers, the Australian news media has given great publicity over the past few weeks to the apparent lack of civil liberties in Thailand, which attracted attention when three Australians were arrested in Bangkok several weeks ago. We must make up our minds about this sort of thing. If we call on Asian nations to take tough measures, then we cannot be surprised and should not complain when they do so. 
Thirdly, there is the question of Asian refugees. None of the ASEAN nations was directly involved in the Vietnam war; Australia was. Yet when the problem of Vietnamese refugees becomes a serious one it is the ASEAN nations who have to provide accommodation and food for the refugees and it is Australia which shows great reluctance to take any more than a small number. 
What can be done about the three matters I have mentioned? There seem to me to be a number of obvious measures. Perhaps we could reduce protection of Australian industries and increase trade with Asia. With respect to education, in the longer term there needs to be much more of a turning towards Asia in Australian schools, universities and in the media. Yet if anything, interest in Asia in Australian educational institutions seems to be dropping away. The number of students in Australian high schools who are learning Asian languages seems to be falling. There are few courses about Asia in Australian universities, and it is still most unusual for an Australian university student to study a second language unless he is actually studying languages for his degree. This is a sharp contrast to the situation in Europe, where most university students are quite fluent in at least a second language and often a third. As far as the Australian news media is concerned, the coverage of events in Asia is very poor. For example, the  AM  radio program, which is one of the best radio programs in Australia, devotes much less time to reports of Asian events than it does to events in England or the United States of America. 
I now to the performance of the Asian Development Bank. I think the first thing that needs to be said is that it has been relatively successful. The performance of the Asian Development Bank can be judged only when it is compared with the performance of other aid agencies. One can make some comparisons with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development- the World Bank- and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. Compared with both of those agencies, the Asian Development Bank is a relative success. I am not decrying the efforts of those other bodies, of course. However, as has been stressed by other speakers in this debate, the problem of poverty is an enormous one, and in my view it is the problem on which the aid agencies should be concentrating. Very often they do not do so. The quarterly review of July 1978 of the Asian Development Bank stated: 
It is estimated that there are 1.2 billion extremely poor people in the world today, with annual incomes as low as $200. Nearly three-quarters of these poorest poor are Asians. 
Given my view that poverty is the problem, I do not believe that emphasis on big projects is enough. The main method by which most aid agencies have been attempting to increase growth rates has been to set up large scale projects. I refer, for example, to the development of electrical power systems. In 1977 the Asian Development Bank approved almost $900m in loans, about one-quarter of which went to the power sector. In itself that may appear to be a good thing, but it is simply not good enough. If tackling poverty is the objective, it is just as important to look at the matter of who benefits from projects as it is to ensure that they are financially viable. 
To take an example, the Asian Development Bank recently provided money for an expansion of the electricity sector in Medan, North Sumatra. Approximately 70 per cent of the houses in Medan do not have an electricity supply at present and there is no prospect whatsoever of the establishment of that project benefiting the poor of Medan. This program could have been designed in an entirely different way. It could have been designed to ensure that poor people in Medan were supplied with at least a small amount of electricity, but this sort of thing is very rarely done. The most important question to ask about any project is: Who benefits? In my opinion the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau should all be paying much more attention to ensuring that the poor benefit directly. 
In response to criticisms of this sort, bodies such as the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank and the United Nations agencies recently have been devoting a good deal of publicity to their programs, which are said to help the poor. Much of this publicity is nonsense. Detailed study after detailed study by outside experts indicate that many of these programs do not help the poor at all, even though the international agencies claim that they do. There is a fair debate in respect of aid about growth versus equity. During the 1950s and the 1960s it was generally thought that developing countries should aim to maximise their rates of economic growth and that other problems, such as poverty and unemployment, would tend to be solved simply through the process of growth. 
It has become clear, however, that economic growth alone is not enough to solve the problems of poverty and unemployment. It is clear that economic growth is important for developing countries, but this involves a question of emphasis. In this matter, official international organisations, such as the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank, tend to take a rather old fashioned view. These organisations still tend to emphasise growth rather than solving the problem of poverty. It is now quite clear from the experience in many developing countries that there can be quite long periods of high growth but that absolute levels of poverty and unemployment do not improve very much. 
One change that international organisations, such as the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank can introduce is a policy which ensures that each project that they undertake is examined from the point of view of its impact on poverty and unemployment. There are various ways in which any given project can be designed. What is needed is for international agencies to stop talking about unemployment and poverty and to start ensuring that these problems affect the way in which their detailed projects are drawn up. In this matter, the Asian Development Bank may be a little better than the World Bank and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, but certainly the performance of all these organisations leaves much to be desired. 
There are other criticisms that one can level at the Asian Development Bank. Like most other international organisations, the Asian Development Bank is subject to criticism on several grounds. First, the salaries that it pays its officials are very high, as my colleague the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  said last night. Detailed figures for the Asian Development Bank are not available, but it is not at all unusual for international organisations to pay salaries of $30,000 to $40,000 tax free and to provide other benefits, such as generous international travel allowances and generous housing conditions. It is generally true that officials working for these agencies command salaries which are far higher than those that they would receive in their home countries. Competition amongst these international agencies has created a world market for international civil servants, so that each agency can argue that it needs to pay high salaries because of the high salaries paid by the other organisations. 
Since most of these officials are being paid salaries that are far higher than they would get in other jobs, the question arises of whether they are over-paid. In addition, it seems difficult to see how these people can do their jobs satisfactorily when they are paid such high salaries and live in such personally luxurious circumstances. The extraordinary situation has been reached where the world's most highly paid international civil servants claim to spend much of their time working in the interests of the world 's poor. 
Secondly, another unsatisfactory aspect of the way in which these international agencies operate is that their degree of public accountability is very low. Senior public servants within, say, Australia are at least subject to some control through the parliamentary process. The international civil servants in organisations such as the Asian Development Bank are a law unto themselves. In practice, the performance of these agencies very rarely comes under scrutiny from any elected representatives from outside. To summarise the situation, organisations such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and other international organisations are outside parliamentary control, are staffed with officials who have very high salaries- largely they set their own salaries- who claim to be working in the interests of the world's poor, and who are able to spend a great deal of money publicising their own activities in the way that they see fit and in building up their own prestige. This is the public servant's dream. 
In view of these criticisms of international organisations in general, and the Asian Development Bank in particular, what can be done? A number of proposals might be made. Firstly, the salaries paid within these international organisations need to be reviewed. On the face of it, there seem to be very good arguments for reducing the salaries that are paid across the board in most of these international agencies. The argument that this would reduce the quality of staff that could be recruited needs to be viewed with much scepticism. Given the sort of work in which the international agencies are involved, if the main reason that people work for them is the high salaries available, it is unlikely that suitable staff are being recruited. As was seen earlier, although the salaries being paid at present are very high, there are good reasons for doubting whether the agencies are doing their jobs very well. 
Secondly, steps need to be taken to increase the public accountability of these international agencies. It is not desirable that the agencies should simply be encouraged to publicise their activities more because, naturally, they will publicise activities that they regard as desirable and present them in a way that puts the agencies in a good light. Perhaps more reviews are needed by outside people of the operations of these agencies. For example, teams of senior public servants, academics and parliamentarians might regularly review the operations of these organisations from the outside. These international reviews could be published. It seems to me that there needs to be more monitoring of aid projects by these international agencies. 
Thirdly, steps need to be taken to ensure that people who are involved in anti-poverty programs are closer to the people with whom they are supposed to be working. It is quite unsatisfactory for a team of five or six people to fly from Washington or Manila to some part of Asia for a week or so in order to evaluate the progress of a rural development program. In the same way that officials of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Australia need to have close contact with the people in the field if they are to be effective, so do people from the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank. At present this is not done. We need to have recruited to these organisations people who can speak the languages spoken in the countries in which programs are being executed and who are prepared to live in the countries for quite long periods of time. 
Fourthly, there are even arguments for considering whether the size of these agencies should be substantially reduced. The organisations are bureaucratic, inefficient and rather unsuccessful in achieving their goals, and it should not be taken for granted that the existence of these organisations is a good thing. Unless these organisations can do far better in the future, the poor of the world might be better served if the organisations were simply closed down and the resources that they use at present transferred to the poor countries in other ways. For example, if the staff of the Asian Development Bank did not work for the Bank, the governments of countries in South East Asia could hire the staff directly on medium term contracts. In this way, the staff would be more directly accountable to the governments of the countries in which they were working. Further, the funds that these agencies provide could be borrowed directly by developing countries on world capital markets. Even though the interest rates might be somewhat higher, this would not necessarily be a bad thing because it would be more likely that the borrowing countries would look more closely at the way the funds were being used. 
The remarks I have made tonight by way of criticism of these agencies have been more critical than those made by other speakers in the debate, but I believe that if we are not to adopt paternalistic and patronising attitudes to our Asian neighbours and if we are to look seriously at the real problems, the problems of poverty, we have to advance views which are critical of some of these holy cows in the international aid scene. 
-At the outset I feel I should say that the Bill before the House relates to matters with which I have been most closely associated since August of last year when I commenced work in the crop marketing analysis section of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. This is the second time that I have come into this House after having worked in and researched an area closely associated with matters of government policy. In a previous period my work was related to the wool industry. At that time I had to bite my tongue because much of the information in my head had been gained by virtue of my having been a public servant and thereby often gaining knowledge from private outside bodies which were co-operating with government. The same situation applies again tonight, but the ethical restrictions that I believe are on me not to say certain things are not now so great because the Industries Assistance Commission has taken public evidence and IAC has reported on wheat stabilisation. But tonight is not the time to go into the recommendations and the possibilities of the next stabilisation scheme. It would be better to leave them until the scheme is introduced. Much of that report directly covered matters that we are debating here. I do not think either that we need to debate tonight the recent High Court of Australia decision with respect to section 92 of the Constitution. But I would have thought that the introduction of this Bill gives some credence to the view that perhaps the present scheme may be extended for one more year. 
The Industries Assistance Commission has allowed a lot of debate to take place in this country, particularly on the rural industries and the measures of assistance going to them. I believe that such assistance should be more fettered and not less fettered. We are not going to get better policies if secrecy prevails and if bodies and individuals are prevented from saying things that are not palatable to the Government. I believe that the Industries Assistance Commission regards itself as being under attack to some degree. I was particularly displeased to see that Hylda Rolfe was not reappointed to the Industries Assistance Commission. I would hope that that was not because she expressed some views on superphosphate that did not accord with those of this Government. 
What I am coming round to saying is that although I have some specific knowledge on the areas under debate tonight, I will try not to relate any matter on which I gained knowledge directly by having been a public servant. However, fortunately there is a lot of public information now about wheat. This does not stop me from saying that I believe that many statutory authorities such as the Australian Wheat Board are still too secretive with respect to information given to those they are supposed to serve and to governments. Neither does it not stop me from saying that bodies such as the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation should engage in more open debate on their views rather than relying on political leverage to have their policies implemented by governments. 
The Bill mainly relates, firstly, to the provisions to establish a varietal control scheme for wheat by providing for the imposition of dockages on the varieties of wheat possessing undesirable characteristics delivered to the Austraiian Wheat Board. Secondly, it provides for a change in the legal basis on which the Board makes payments to State bulk handling authorities and for a change in the basis of remuneration. The change in the legal basis was inserted as a result of a legal problem identified by the AuditorGeneral. Varietal recommendations and the question of varietal control have been around for quite a long time.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table from a report on the wheat industry by  Sir Alan  Calaghan published quite some time ago. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811161_93_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811161_94_3.jpg"></graphic>

I should stress to honourable members that this table sets out an idea as to the way in which a classification of a varietal recommendation system would work, particularly with respect to protein and other characteristics or limiting factors. Some of the varieties recommended at that time are no longer recommended. I suppose the really big omissions are varieties such as Cook, Oxley and Kite. But as I said, it sets out the principles. In the past, and for the present year each State Department of Agriculture, not the Australian Wheat Board, has made and will make varietal recommendations by statistical division or by local government area or, in some cases, by silo. As an introduction to varietal control in the present year, for example, the New South Wales Government has recommended varieties by silo groupings which have been based on the performance of varieties in each location and on the history of the average percentage of protein in the wheat stored in the silo over the past 10 years. Such a time for calculation is necessary because a protein level can be fixed by climatic as well as soil factors. There are many variations through the years. This means that the main criterion of quality is wheat protein. 
However, quality per se is not an objective factor unless it can be related to the market on which the wheat will be sold. Not only can one not produce all high protein wheat, but also one cannot sell it all necessarily. The quality of most market values to be associated with protein is the degree of hardness or softness of the wheat. In general, and I stress 'in general', it is best that there be a gradation of wheats from high protein hard through to low protein soft. But for some uses, inversions of this gradation are desirable. For example, for starch high protein, soft wheat is desired. 
Wheat has many qualities and these are being tested by variety and by grade by various State authorities. New varieties of wheat are being tested constantly and their qualities are being tested. For the Australian Wheat Board to possess a full catalogue of wheats, falling into the four major classifications in which wheat is sold on the international market, it is essential to be able to specify to some degree those varieties that have the most potential to perform well in certain areas and to pay a premium for them. For example, in Queensland and northern New South Wales, where prime hard wheat is able to be grown, it would be silly to plant varieties that might yield a high protein, but which had a low yield or which had other characteristics such as poor baking quality. But even in this area there have been times when high yielding, but supposedly lower quality wheats would have given growers a greater return per hectare. It is this sort of equation that has caused most dissention. 
Before the Australian Wheat Board can specify varieties to grow on the basis of protein, hardness and baking qualities, as well as all the usual parameters for acceptance of wheat, such as cleanness and shattering quality, it logically should be able to show two things. Firstly, it should be able to show that there is a need for as much high protein hard wheat on the international market as it is possible to grow. That is, it should be able to show what the international market for wheat is. Secondly, it should be able to show that there is a real premium to be gained on the international market by providing this wheat. 
On the first point, it is problematical just what the international market for wheat is. Stocks affect it, climate here and abroad affect it and various institutional characteristics of exporting and importing countries affect it. We just do not know beforehand what the markets for particular qualities of wheat in any one year will be. On the second point, except in the boom period of wheat prices during the years of the Whitlam Labor Government's, there is little evidence of the premiums paid for wheat locally being related to the actual premiums received. On many occasions, better prices were received for wheats of supposedly lower quality. But I emphasise that quality is in the eyes of the buyer or the ulitmate user. A buyer may not even be buying on objective grounds. For example, the buyer may be buying the wheat to blend it or for a freight advantage, that is, a price advantage, or he may be buying it on the grounds of price pure and simple or colour or tradition. 
I believe that the Australian Wheat Board needs to give more information on the size of the various international markets in which it is competing. There is not just one international market. I sympathise with the Board for the problems it faces. It has to sell all the wheat that is handed to it. While it may be possible for everyone to grow more stockfeed wheat and maximise returns per hectare, the Board may not be able to sell it all. It is the same sort of argument against over-border trade. Those indulging in a practice of local optimum advantage may not be able to get away with it in the universal case. 
I think there needs to be a lot more openness and research into the international wheat markets, the premiums and the qualities before the Australian Wheat Board can say with certainty what and why it wants certain varieties grown, and how much it needs to pay premiums on a more directly market related basis. I would make another point The emphasis on high protein hard varieties, where possible, I agree with mainly because of the Board's marketing problem and also because of the vagaries of the weather which can always stick it with a lot of off-grade wheat. For example, this year there may be a problem with a massive amount of sprouted wheat. However, the converse can apply. I think that very often we may be selling high protein hard wheat as Australian Standard White because we have too much of it. 
Some of these wheat quality committees in the industry tend to be intellectually dominated by the millers and cereal chemists rather than the marketers. I believe this is another criticism. Australian millers and bread manufacturers can pick the eyes out of the market because they want only about 20 per cent of what we produce. Our market in Europe where this sort of quality wheat was needed for blending has gone. Our future markets may well be for wheat for noodles entirely, or for stock feed, for Middle Eastern breads, for chapattis et cetera, where milling machinery is non-existent or primitive. While it may be true that sophistication in this regard is increasing in lesser developed countries, in times of shortage it is the rural poor that need grain, not the rising urban middle class. 
Another problem is that there has been evidence of interstate rivalries as far as the production of wheat varieties is concerned. I do not wish for breeders, testers and cereal chemists to be taken from out of the State domains, but I believe there is a need for a bit more co-operation at times. One could give examples of where varieties have been down-played by a State on less than objective grounds. 
Apart from these market aspects of varietal control I have been speaking on, there are some very practical advantages in the handling of wheat. At present all wheat is segregated on receival on the basis of pre-receival or point of receival subjective and objective testing. Although agronomic factors will determine to a large degree the protein of wheat, it is the variety which determines other quality characteristics. Some 60 per cent to 80 per cent of Australian wheat is Australian Standard White and thus fits into a fairly well defined slot on the international market. But without extensive and time consuming quality tests the wheat received at a single station or silo may be of 30 varieties, all of which form into an aggregated average grade but which will contain some part of the bulk at extremes of various quality parameters- that is, the silo may be full of wheat that is not homogenous. 
Variety is very difficult to define on entry. There has been a problem with low protein hard wheats- for example, within SW. Although Australia has some 23 to 27 segregations of wheat there will be on average only up to four or five segregations at a certain silo collecting point. Each segregation will cost money as it costs storage space. If the number of varieties can be limited and if these varieties are optimum agronomically for that area, they in turn become more optimal as a marketing proposition. It is better to have silos filled with more homogenous samples and less segregations than vice versa. I accept that in any area there may be an economic case to grow a high yielding stock feed wheat but if it is to be sold it must bear all the real costs of its segregated storage and handling and, as I have said before, not everyone can do this necessarily. 
I do not want to get down to cases but, as a result of the work I did in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, I agree particularly with the Queensland and New South Wales recommendations on wheat varieties for this year and believe that only a limited economic case can be made to say that growers have been led up the garden path with respect to the recommendations in previous years. There simply needs to be a lot more economic research on the excellent agronomic research that is being done by the States. 
I now move on to the other main proposal in the Bill with respect to wheat handling. The Australian Wheat Board receives through its licenced receivers all wheat tendered to it by growers subject to minimum specified standards. These licensed receivers are the bulk handling authorities in each State. There are four Government authorities and two wheat growers cooperatives. It is also recieved by certain Hour millers and stock feed suppliers who have been licensed to receive wheat. The bulk handling authority is the Grain Elevators Board in New 
South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania; the Cooperative Bulk Handling Ltd in South Australia and Western Australia; and the State Wheat Board in Queensland. To quote the present Act, upon delivery the wheat 'becomes the absolute property of the Board freed from all mortgages, charges, liens, pledges, interests and trusts'. 
Capital expenditure by the bulk handling authorities in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland is financed either through State Government loans or commercial loans, which in total form part of the State 's loan allocation from the Australian Loan Council. In South Australia and Western Australia, capital expenditure is financed by tolls on deliveries from growers, which provide a rotating loan fund, and loans from commercial institutions. 
These receivers have costs on the following items reimbursed by the Australian Wheat Board: Depreciation on storages, buildings, and equipment; interest and associated expenses for the purchase of assets; interest on tolls in South Australia; interest on tolls and levies in Western Australia and interest on levies in Queensland. Also reimbursed are operating expenses and hiring charges paid to the bulk handling authorities on the basis of 1 per cent of the original cost of the asset. The costs incurred by the bulk handling authorities in the handling of wheat are set out in a table which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table reads as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811161_96_4.jpg"></graphic>

Storage and handling costs are pooled and shared on a pro rata basis among all wheat growers throughout Australia. The Australian Wheat Board has proposed, and now the Government proposes, that this arrangement be altered so that wheat growers in any one State bear directly the costs of their bulk handling authority. On the basis that the current reimbursement system continued, then, between 1971-72 and 1976-77, handling and storage costs to wheat growers in Western Australia and New South Wales would have increased, while for growers in South Australia, Victoria and Queensland they would have generally declined. Again I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard  which shows this. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="112131197811161_97_0.jpg"></graphic>

I understand that likely charges will now reflect wider disparities in charges than that shown in the table. For example, the table shows that the charge in the most expensive State would be approximately $9.64c a tonne in 1976-77. The cheapest was Victoria at $4.85. I have heard that the New South Wales bulk handling authority will be charging something like $ 12 per tonne. The total storage capacity for wheat- excluding stock feed and on-farm storage- in 1976-77 was 20.3 million tonnes. The bulk handling authorities control nearly all this storage, with 15.9 million tonnes of country capacity and 4.1 million tonnes at the seaboard. The storage capacity of flour mills was only 0.3 million tonnes. I have already indicated that varietal control will act to increase storage but the total capacity at present is inadequate in terms of both quantity and quality. Also, by better segregation we will get better transport, but more of that in a moment. 
The Opposition supports the idea of State accounting as the basis of costing of handling and storage charges, mainly for reasons of economic efficiency and equity. The cost to individual producers in an industry should reflect the real cost of the services provided. But one accepts that there are institutional and administrative advantages in the pooling of some costs and returns, and of course costs will still be pooled within the State under the new system. The question of handling, storage, and transport and their related costs to growers is going to be the key area for concern to growers and governments and authorities in the future. The percentage of growers costs being taken by those items are increasing most rapidly. There is a sort of catch 22 situation here. Australia is one of the few countries where nearly all wheat is delivered immediately on harvest. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Prior to being interrupted last night I was saying that the Opposition basically supports the concept of State accounting for receival and storage charges for wheat. I had pointed out that as the costs of handling, storage and freight were rising the most rapidly of all growers' costs, they would be the main concern of growers and governments in the coming years. I believe that a Catch 22 situation applies here. I had stated that Australia is one of the few countries, if not the only one, where nearly all wheat is delivered immediately on harvest. The reason for this is that the climate in this country does not allow the amount of onfarm storage that is particularly evident in the United States and Canada, which experience very cold winters. In fact in Australia the problems of insect control and storage are major areas of concern. The further north in the country the bigger the problems. One of the major problems that Queensland faces is insect infestation. 
With the advent of larger acreages and bigger machinery, harvesting is a lot quicker and the peak of demand for receival and storage is thereby accentuated. Coping with this demand means additional costs. State accounting will reflect the component of increased costs from these areas where expansion, replacement or upgrading of silo facilities takes place. It will also reflect existing State characteristics and the pattern of silos and storage that has accumulated over the years. The Catch 22 situation I wish to point to is that as more and bigger machinery is put on to the land and farmers cut costs, greater demands are being placed on the bulk handling system, thereby causing farmers to suffer increased costs. 
The bulk handling authorities are in a very difficult financial situation. Evidence before the Industries Assistance Commission clearly indicated that. The use of loan funds via the Loan Council severely restricts those three bulk handling authorities that receive their funds for capital works in this manner. The use of growers' funds, on the other hand, for South Australia and Western Australia may lead to excessive building of facilities. There has been some criticism of this. Where the answer lies we do not know. The location of storage facilities varies greatly between States. In South Australia and Western Australia a great proportion of the storage is at the seaboard. I think that in South Australia that makes a lot of sense because quite a few outlets are situated on the seaboard. The distances to be travelled are such that to put in sub-terminals would clearly not be warranted. I have a rather different idea on the situation in Western Australia where I think far too much capacity is at the seaboard. In New South Wales and Queensland most of the available storage is inland. Victoria falls somewhere between the extremes to which I have pointed. Victoria, although it has a big terminal at Geelong, has inadequate inloading capacity. 
Apart from the costs, loans and growers' funds, the problems that the bulk handling authorities face relate simply to where they should build additional storage. Should they upgrade storages or build additional storages? Do they build alongside the railways in the country areas? Should they build sub-terminals or increase terminal capacity? This requires a rather major study. The problem of insect control compounds the situation. Investigations are under way at a technical level, through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, into new forms of storage in this country with respect to inert gases and refrigeration. One of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission was that the whole question of storage should be examined in greater detail. I hope that the Government can get one of the authorities that it has under its charge- the Department of Primary Industry, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or some such body- to investigate the economics of storage location, pure and simple. 
Another problem of the bulk handling authorities is of an institutional nature. For example, if the silo outflows are upgraded and speeded up so that the trains can be filled more quickly it will not necessarily result in any direct benefit to the growers in respect of rail freight charges. This is due to the institutional nature of dealings between State statutory authorities. The State railway accounting systems are not necessarily based on any great logic and they all have rather large problems with State deficits. Even though there is investment in various wheat storage locations and efficiencies are being created it does not necessarily mean- in fact it never means- that the freight advantages will be passed back to the growers. I believe that the bulk handling authorities need to be freed from Australian Loan Council restrictions. Admittedly they are allowed to raise money on the open market but they are still subject to an overall requirement laid down by the Loan Council. If this cannot occur, I think that they should be subsidised in some other way. I hope that the Government will give some attention and thought to this proposition. 
The House is aware of possible ramifications in respect of section 92 of the Constitution that have resulted from a recent court judgment. It has been calculated that without interstate wheat trading an amount of up to $90m may have to be spent straightaway for the official bulk handling authorities to provide extra storage. At present the private traders are leasing storage. They have built some storage facilities. If an amount of $90m suddenly has to be found, again the bulk handling authorities will be in a lot of trouble. Another reason that I favour State accounting is that there are great inequities between the farmers in the States in regard to the way they have paid for the facilities for the storage of thengrain. For example, it could be held that New South Wales growers have contributed nowhere near as much to the building of storage facilities as have their colleagues in South Australia and Western Australia because in New South Wales nearly all the capital works expenditure has come directly from loan funds. 
I suppose it would be rather heretical to suggest that a bit of free enterprise, as advocated by the IAC, may help in respect of storage if some of the larger grain traders and some of the merchants were allowed to operate more freely in the Australian domestic market, but I do not think it is just as simple as that. It is not so simple that it can be put in terms of slogans such as free enterprise and private trading. If free trading is allowed domestically, poorer quality wheat may be grown as varietal control would not be able to be exercised by the system of dockages. As we are now surely on the path of varietal control, I think that is a major problem for private trading domestically. Also, whilst private traders can take a lot of the under-quality wheat, they may not be able to take it all in a very bad season. So the facilities they provided at present would still have to be regulated in some way. 
If there were free domestic trade and no home consumption price was fixed, other than just a floor price, I believe that more wheat would be grown in this country vis-a-vis other grains. But this is a proposition that I think will not be tested. However, in looking at all these inter-related aspects of varietal control, storage and accounting and with another stabilisation scheme coming up, I think it is time to direct our attention to ways of experimenting with some multigrain marketing concepts. We could perhaps think about issuing permits for over-the-border trading just to see how much wheat is actually handled in this way. At present all we have are estimates that it ranges from 200,000 tonnes to 500,000 tonnes a year. Perhaps the tonnage is greater, perhaps it is less. We simply do not know. I think that a good deal of thought needs to be given to this matter. I do not think it is simply a matter of talking about the need for free enterprise to prevail. I think that there are really big institutional problems. 
To summarise what I have been saying, the Opposition agrees with this legislation. We agree with the three measures contained in the Bill. 
The Opposition believes that varietal control is a step forward. Australian wheat farmers have always been prepared to accept a good deal of government intervention and intervention by authorities in the handling of their crop. In fact the crop is no longer theirs once it leaves the farm. But I think that they also should do their bit. For example, in Queensland there is a very tidy, precise area of grain growing and the organisation of the growing of all grains in that State is excellent. The co-operation of the Queensland Wheat Board with the farmers is excellent. In many ways it is a good example for the rest of Australia. There are other States in which growers want to grow any old wheat and want to kid the Wheat Board about the varieties of wheat that they are actually growing. I think that they should face up to the fact that they will have to compete more and that they will have to do their bit and go along with the proposals of the Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Wheatgrowers federation and the Government. 
The Opposition appreciates the problems associated with having to get five or six State governments to agree to legislation. Often the States have the legislative whip hand if not the emotional whip hand. The States know full well that the growers in their own States will support them because it is the State governments which bring to them so many direct services. As I said earlier, this applies particularly in respect of the breeding of new varieties of wheat, the testing of varieties and the tests by cereal chemists of wheat at various times. The Opposition agrees with the legislation and recommends it to the House. 
-Along with my colleague the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  I too was once a poultry farmer and therefore have more than a passing interest in this Bill. I think for a few years I also recorded my occupation as chicken plucker on official forms. Now I have much pleasure in representing Werriwa, where more chickens are plucked than in any other electorate in the Parliament because Inghams Enterprises is situated in that electorate. I cannot claim any credit for turkeys being plucked in my electorate because they are in the electorate of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  and I will not get on to the subject of game birds. I will not take up the time of the House by speaking for too long on this Bill, the purpose of which has been set out very well by other speakers. The purpose of the Bill is basically to amend the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965 so as to increase the level of funds available for poultry research. With the passage of this Bill, the total amount available for poultry research in any one financial year, commencing with the current 1978-79 financial year, will be a maximum of $300,000 instead of the present $200,000 with the Government's share being up to $ 1 50,000. It is estimated that in the current financial year the increase will involve additional government expenditure of about $23,000. 
I think it needs to be said that the industry is to be congratulated for its initiative in offering an increase in its expenditure on research. The research program in the current year is well set out in a document tabled recently in this House. For example, the total allocation for research on disease is some $76,000, the total amount allocated to various research projects on nutrition amounts to $95,000, and there is a whole heap of research on general subjects. In terms of the total allocation this year of $249,000, some $146,000 has already been allocated to continuing projects, with only $73,000 for new projects. But that is in the nature of research. If we are to do research properly we must set the priorities early and undertake research programs that bore away at the problems. 
I want to spend some time on the research that is being conducted into diseases. Priority in research has been given to major diseases, quite properly in my view. Firstly, there is the area of research into Newcastle disease, which other honourable members have mentioned already. There have been a number of Newcastle disease scares in Australia, the latest being in September 1977. The fear behind each scare is understandable. Newcastle disease is caused by a virus and is still the most dangerous of poultry diseases. The threat is as great as ever despite the fact that several strains of Newcastle disease vaccine are well established in Australia and have probably affected one quarter of our birds. The Victorian project at the Atwood Veterinary Research Laboratory at Westmeadows grew out of the detection in 1966 of NDV in Queensland flocks. The virus was soon found in flocks in other States and a small study showed that it was not the same virus as the killer strains that had swept parts of Australia in 1930 and which were to ravage Californian and European flocks in the early 1 970s. I think that more research into this area is worth while indeed. 
There is still some research going on, although perhaps the research program may have terminated now, into the disease generally known as coccidiosis. This is a disease that affects young birds in particular so therefore it affects both the broiler industry and the egg-laying industry. The problem with coccidiosis is that it soon develops strains resistant to the drugs used. It is a disease that builds up some immunity and there is a need constantly to produce new drugs to contain it. I believe that that area also should have some priority. 
Infectious bronchitis is another area into which there has been quite a bit of research. That program is due to terminate in June 1979. Infectious bronchitis is a particular problem for the broiler industry. To some degree it is a stress related disease inasmuch as it is a respiratory disease that is at the end of the cycle which includes corysa and some of the other stress respiratory diseases. Work on infectious bronchitis virus has continued for over 15 years at Armidale and has been supported for the past 8 years by the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities. An immense amount has been learnt about the virus and the damage it does. As a result two vaccines have been developed yet the virus is still not under control. It has been an almost classic case of running or researching flat out just to keep up with events. Again I think there needs to be a continuing research program. Before 1962 no one knew for certain just what infectious bronchitis was. 
The fourth area I want to mention briefly is Marek 's disease. When I was in the poultry industry Marek's disease was known more familiarly as the leucosis complex of diseases. As I understand it, research into this disease has terminated but I would think that there should be a lot more research into this area. Perhaps I am wrong in saying that this research has terminated. No, it has not. According to information I have here the University of Sydney is continuing research in the current year on the control of Marek's disease by vaccination. As I said, Marek's disease was known as leucosis complex. I guess that one could say that the Marek's disease vaccine situation. could be described in the same way- complex. In this area success came quickly, perhaps too quickly, with the development of a vaccine based on a closely related virus, the herpes virus of turkeys. This vaccine, which was similar to vaccines widely used overseas, was successful and was rapidly adopted by the industry. In the first year control was of the order of 80 per cent to 85 per cent, the only serious problem being that the vaccine was difficult to administer. Birds had to be individually vaccinated. Mass dosing in drinking water or by aerosol sprays did not work although these techniques had been used successfully with other vaccines such as the infectious laryngo tracheitis vaccine. The success story was short lived. In the second last field survey overall protection was down to 75 per cent and in some flocks was much lower. Although this vaccine has been developed, it has been proved that there needs to be a lot more testing of it and a lot more monitoring of its effects on succeeding generations of poultry. 
As I said at the outset, there is no need for me to speak for very long on this Bill although it is very important to yet another primary industry in this country. Other speakers, and the Minister's second reading speech, have covered precisely the purpose of the Bill and the research and organisational structure. The industry is to be congratulated for taking the initiative to contribute more money to research into its own problems. The Opposition commends the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-On this afternoon of consensus and unanimity I wish to make a few weighty and measured comments on the fifth Order of the Day. The Bill before the House is a proposal to amend the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960. Naturally the Bill receives the support of the Opposition. After all, the Opposition is concerned with updating and improving the administration of national standards. The Opposition has made vigorous efforts to ensure that the Government maintains proper standards in other areas. It is a pity that the Government's determination to do so is restricted to only an interest in standards for natural quantities, as it is with this legislation. 
The principal Act regulates the units of measurement of physical quantities and approves the designs of devices such as weighing machines. It created the National Standards Commission in 1960 to establish the use of uniform units and standards of measurement. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, through the National Measurement Laboratory, actually discharges these responsibilities. The Science and Industry Research Act gave the CSIRO these functions and, following the recommendations of the Birch inquiry, the Organisation will continue its association with the Standards Commission. This is a close association at present, especially in view of the fact that  Mr Alan  Harper, the recently appointed  Chairman  of the Commission, was previously a senior principal research scientist at the National Measurement Laboratory. 
The proposed amendment to the Act will modify the CSIRO-NSC relationship to give CSIRO a less direct role in the appointment of members of the Commission. Other than that change, and some updating with regard to various administrative matters, the most interesting feature of the Bill is that it increases the penalty for false claims that instruments used in trade have been certified as approved by the Commission. This is a sensible amendment as it moves in the direction of improving customer protection. There is no need to prolong discussion of the Bill. It provides a rare occasionalthough not so rare this afternoon- for genuine bipartisan policy. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I would not like to indulge in too much philosophical or economic theorising but I do largely agree with what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  has said with respect to the dried vine fruits industry. I also concur with what the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  said with respect to the reasoning behind the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission for a two-pool price scheme as an alternative. The situation is that a stabilisation scheme based on price does not address itself to the major cause of income instability in the dried vine fruits industry. That major cause of instability, of course, is fluctuating output. Studies carried out by the IAC showed that between the period of, I think, 1946 to 1972, 78 per cent of the total variability in gross returns for dried vine fruits could be attributed to changes in export quantities available. I do not quite understand what the honourable member for Wakefield was getting at when he spoke about locking people into the industry. 
Locking them into poverty. I think that the smaller farm will go broke and there are many small farms. 
I accept that. The honourable member for Wakefield says that it locks them into the enterprise. That is why I particularly support the second part of the LAC recommendations with respect to really being serious about adjusting the industry by implementing the full provisions of the fruit growing reconstruction report which the IAC brought down. It suggested the development of Area Redevelopment Authorities, counselling, concessional adjustment finance and assistance for the removal of vines through the industry, particularly in the South Australian Riverland as well as in some areas where there are very small blocks, such as Sunraysia. That is my only criticism of the Bill. The Opposition has agreed to go along with the traditional stabilisation scheme even though the honourable member for Parramatta and I have expressed some doubts about it. My worry is that it is just a bit more of the same. Nothing is looked at in relation to the long term future of this industry. 
It is very pleasing to note that we have another two years of good export prices. When the IAC wrote that report it was not really aware of the future- that future is now when compared with quite a while ago when the IAC report was written- but I think one can realise, given the normal run of events, that not only has the industry changed since the IAC wrote that report but also by the early 1980s the industry will be again under pressure and in difficulty. I think one of the pleasing things is that some of the dried vine fruit growers themselves realise that they are now inextricably linked and worked in with the wine grape industry. Rather than call the industry the dried vine fruits industry, it is probably more appropriate to call it the multi-purpose grapes industry. It is encouraging to see that many growers, even in a period of high prices, now regard the contracts with the wineries as something to be held on to because they see this as the longer term future for the growing of these multipurpose grapes. 
There is not much heat in this debate. I think it has all been set out clearly. We are now making statutory what was formerly voluntary. We are setting up the Australian Dried Fruits Corporation to replace the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. The principles are well known and they are well supported in the industry. Honourable members most closely associated with dried vine fruits growing- the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  who made an excellent speech and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)-  have expressed very clearly the attitudes of the growers in their electorates and what the Australian Dried Vine Fruits Board has been able to negotiate. I stress this whole problem of production and how production is characterised by large annual fluctuations. 
The most recently published information by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at the farm level stated that the production varied over a one-year period from 128.1 tonnes to 138.9 tonnes; from 131 tonnes per farm in Victoria to only 36 tonnes per farm in South Australia. South Australia by and large is where the amounts are the smallest. When we have an industry that fluctuates in production due to the weather and even in a good year only produces 36 tonnes, one can see how quickly it will get into trouble. Of course the yields per harvested hectare also vary greatly. For example, the yields in the most recently published information vary from 1S.S tonnes to 8.1 tonnes to 4.3 tonnes per hectare respectively for sultanas, currants and raisins. For example, sultana yields varied between 18.6 tonnes per hectare in New South 
Wales down to 1 1.1 tonnes per hectare in South Australia. Not only are there variations in production through the years but also in yields per hectare which vary from State to State. 
If we look at the total production figures for 1972, which was the top year of production of dried vine fruits, we will find that the total production was 550 kilotonnes- I suppose that is 1,000 tonnes. Production went down during 1973-74 to something less than 300 kilotonnes In 1 978 it went up to slightly over 400 kilotonnes The total production of all grapes in the present year is something like 800 kilotonnes and the crop for the coming year is estimated to be at about that level, giving an estimated aggregate value of about $135m. But the grape surplus at present is calculated to be 75 kilotonnes, including the 30 kilotonnes left on the vines. So we have a potential for over-production in addition to this problem of fluctuating production. Again, some regions are affected by this situation much worse than others. 
Another problem causing more instability at present arises from the fact that the Government in the 1978-79 Budget has increased the excise rates on brandy by 84 per cent to something like $18.75 per Lal. In the light of that fact it is quite certain that brandy consumption will fall to disastrous levels. As I have said, dried vine fruit production itself is expected in 1979 to be in excess of 70 kilotonnes dry weight but final production levels in the months ahead will be sensitive to climatic influences. Production in 1978 at the dry weight level is 69 kilotonnes including some 700 tonnes of shiraz grapes. This production level is about 10 per cent higher than the production level for 1977 despite the substantial storm damage suffered in the Red Cliffs area in north western Victoria. Dried vine fruits gross value is projected to be about 15 per cent higher in 1979, at around $65m. The domestic market for dried vine fruit is expected to remain fairly static but exports in 1979 are estimated to rise by about 15 per cent to about 40 kilotonnes. Gross value of exports is expected to rise by 30 per cent to about $45m reflecting the expected higher export prices about which I was speaking a moment ago. 
A feature of multi-purpose grape production is the extent of market diversion. Again relying on the most recently available published information, I understand that three-quarters of the production of raisins in 1973-74 and 1974-75 was delivered to wineries and in South Australia, for example, some 91 per cent of the raisin crop was sold to wineries. Sultanas are increasingly being diverted into wine grape production, I think particularly in the Robinvale area of Victoria. If we look at the figures for the year ahead with respect to exports we will see that the dried vine fruit export price and demand are expected to be strong following below normal world stocks and production in the northern hemisphere. As mentioned by other honourable members, an important factor in this regard is the extensive storm damage which has occurred this year to the Californian crop. Export prices for dried vine fruit are expected to rise by 15 per cent or more. Significantly, the American shortfall may enable Australian exporters to gain a foothold in traditional markets for United States dried vine fruit, such as Japan. What I have been saying is that the year ahead looks good for dried vine fruit but the long term future of the industry does not look so good. 
As I said at the outset, whilst basically agreeing with the honourable member for Wakefield, we have to look to the long term future of this industry. We hope, as he hopes, that the Corporation can address itself to some of these longer range concerns to try to make more accurate market predictions. But I think particularly in relation to horticultural crops we simply cannot do that to any degree of certainty. There is no sense in making commodity projections when an overnight frost or hail-storm can wreck the whole crop. The reason why the IAC recommended against such a stabilisation scheme is that it believes that price stability is not central to the problems of the DVF industry. It believes that stabilisation policy would be better directed towards protecting growers against instability of production. 
Crop insurance was nominated by a number of witnesses as the most effective measure to offset the effect of adverse weather conditions on yields and growers' incomes. I believe that these insurance schemes are well intentioned, but again with an industry such as horticulture I frankly do not see them working in anywhere near the same way they can work for other commodities. I do not see them working anywhere near as well as, for example, the State wheat board in Queensland works its scheme for wheat. I will not delay the House any longer other than to say that, although I think the IAC's recommendations are a little out of date and although I think the Government and the industry itself believe a continuation of stabilisation type measures is the best policy in the short term, the long term future of this industry with respect not only to fluctuating production but also to over-production will mean different measures will have to be taken in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  have set out very clearly the economics and history of this mining operation and the impact on this town if mining does not continue due to a withdrawal of funds. They have set out some of the human ramifications of the problem. I would raise a few general points with respect to the dangers of asbestos because the Chrysotile Corporation have asked for repeated exemptions in meeting the New South Wales regulations set up to protect the workers in this industry. Recently  the honourable member for Blaxland has assured me that he understands the mine is going on to the wet milling process and after that is carried out and machinery is installed, the mine will then meet all New South Wales standards with respect to the protection of the health of the workers at the mine itself. If the amount of funds now being advanced is inadequate to meet the standards then I say that funds need to be increased. As the honourable members pointed out, the Industries Assistance Commission did not recommend assistance to this mining operation. The Government here first said it was going along with the recommendation but later changed its mind, given negotiations and the expressed concern of the New South Wales Government. However, the Industries Assistance Commission report did take into account environmental health standards and the possible effects on the workers at that mine. I believe I need to quote in some detail from what the IAC said. The report in part read: 
The effects on the health of employees and those living in close proximity to the activities associated with asbestos mining and the manufacture and use of goods containing asbestos were discussed at the inquiry. In particular, health and environmental issues were discussed by Woodsreef, the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation and Development, EHCD, the Division of Thoracic Medicine of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, James Hardie, members of the medical professions, and representatives of unions. 
Witnesses indicated that there is a close correlation between the level of asbestos dust to which people are exposed and diseases which can be regarded as being a result of asbestos fibre in human tissue or developing as the result of the presence of asbestos fibre. Their evidence was based on research conducted in Australia and overseas. 
Further on in the report there is this section: 
The standards for asbestos dust levels in New South Wales are controlled by Section SS General Rule 65b Mines Inspection Act 1901, and Section 17 of the Clean Air Act 1961. General Rule 65b allows the Chief Inspector to specify the standard for any particular type of dust. In December 1 972 the then Chief Inspector set the standard for Chrysotile asbestos dust levels at Barraba and Baryulgil at 4 fibres per millilitre in accordance with the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council. In March 1978 the operating companies were informed that a new standard of 2 fibres per millilitre would apply as recommended by NHMRC. 
CCA's operations at Barraba do not comply with the standards in all work areas. Because of financial difficulties, installation of capital equipment required to meet the standards has been deferred. In July 1977, the State Pollution Control Commission issued an order under Section 17 of the Clean Air Act requiring the installation of air pollution control equipment. To assist the company to comply with the standards the New South Wales Minister for Mines and Energy agreed to waive royalty payments in respect of the mining operation for the period 1 November 1977 to 31 October 1 978. The company was required to place orders for the equipment by 31 October 1978 and have it installed by 31 March 1979. As part of its request for short term assistance - 
Which is now being met by this Government- 
CCA requested a repayable cash grant from the Commonwealth Government of $650,000 to cover the cost of environmental equipment required by the Department. 
It goes without saying that the company is liable to a substantial penalty for non-compliance with the regulations. I would like an assurance from the Minister- I am not sure whether the responsible Minister is the one at the table- that some of these funds are going directly to meet these requirements with respect to health standards. The report continues: 
In 1973, shortly after the Barraba mine opened - 
As the other members have said, it is a very modern mine, recently opened- 
CCA arranged for the Division of Thoracic Medicine to carry out a survey to monitor the health of its employees particularly in respect of asbestos related diseases. The first survey was carried out in 1973 and another in 1977. It was stated that these surveys did not detect any asbestos related diseases but a number of cases of unrelated diseases were detected. 
This is to be expected because the dormant period of these disease outbreaks involving asbestos is in the region of approximately 20 years. The report goes on: 
Between August and December 1977 the Health Commission of NSW conducted a health survey of current employees at Baryulgil and of as many previous employees who work at the mine for a minimum period of 12 months as possible. In addition, for control purposes the survey covered a group of Aboriginal males with no occupational exposure to asbestos and women and children over the age of 12 years living at Baryulgil. Some findings of that survey were supplied to the Commission in confidence. It is still under consideration by the New South Wales Government. 
I hope that the results of those surveys are soon known to all of us. I think it goes without saying that the creation of dust containing asbestos, not just in the mining operations but throughout Australia and throughout the world, wherever asbestos is used, is causing more and more concern because it is known to give rise to a risk of development of two types of disease of the lungs, asbestosis and cancer mesothelioma. The degree of risk is dependent upon the amount of dust inhaled and on its size distribution; fine, invisible airborne fibres in the dust are the most hazardous constituents. Asbestos has numerous different uses, notably for building materials; insulation, noise suppression, fire resistance and against friction. Being so widely used it represents quite a potential hazard. For example, asbestos-containing materials commonly used in the home and which can release asbestos fibres when worked without adequate precautions being taken, when broken, or from general deterioration through wear and aging include asbestos sheets, insulation boards, ceiling tiles,  ceiling insulation, vinyl asbestos floor tiles, and plugging compounds. One could go on to a wide range of products. 
Asbestos is the name given to a group of fibrous silicate minerals with a crystalline structure, the most common of which are: Serpentine, that is Chrysotile which is the white asbestos; Amphibole, which is Crocidolite, the blue asbestos; Amosite, the brown asbestos; and Anthophyllite, which is the white asbestos. It seems to me from reading the Industries Assistance Commission Report that they downgrade the risk with respect to some of these forms of asbestos. They say the blue asbestos is by far the most dangerous. Whilst that may be true, I still think it is medically proven that Chrysotile and Amostie are just as dangerous in most conditions and it is the level of exposure that is the key factor in determining the level of risk. Blue asbestos was found largely in insulation materials in Australia where it was used before 1970. In the opinion of most regulatory authorities the levels of exposure to blue asbestos which can be regarded as non-hazardous are so low that it is not possible to achieve them in a practical situation. The NHMRC Occupational Hygiene Committee recommended a hygiene standard of exposure to Crocidolite of 0.1 fibres per millilitre in January 1 978, but this has not been accepted. 
I turn now to the biological and clinical effects of exposure to asbestos. Here I am relying on medical evidence. The diseases that we are talking about include asbestosis- which is a progressively disabling pulmonary fibrosis or type of pneumoconiosis- an excess of bronchial carcinoma and malignant mesothelioma of the pleura and peritoneum. There is also evidence that asbestos is associated with an excess of cancers in other organs of the body. Other adverse effects of asbestos in the respiratory system include benign pleural effusion, that is, fluid on the lung; collagenous pleural thickening, that is, thickening of the lung wall; and focal pleural calcification. 
Asbestosis usually becomes evident about 20 years after initial exposure. When a significant proportion of the lung is affected breathlessness may occur, leading to partial or total incapacity, and there is no cure. These asbestos induced diseases are dose related. One must stress that there is a lot of ongoing research and there is a need for research to be collated. The inhalation of dust from all forms of asbestos can cause asbestosis. A significant number of people with asbestosis develop bronchial carcinoma. This applies particularly to smokers with asbestosis. Mesothelioma of the pleura and peritoneum is also related to the type of fibre. 
This risk is very much greater in the case of crocidolite- that is blue asbestos- than it is with amosite and chrysotile. Mesotheliomas- that is the cancerous form- have also been reported in people who have had no known exposure to asbestos. Cigarette smoking greatly increases the likelihood of lung cancer among people exposed to excessive asbestos dust. It has been worked out that asbestos workers face a risk of lung cancer eight times greater than that of the general smoking population. There is also medical evidence showing that there is a multiplicitive effect with smoking and asbestos exposure in the causation of cancer of the lung; so that risks are increased as much as 70 times normal. Some researchers say that the risk is up to 95 times more than for non-smoking, non-asbestos exposed people. 
Even slight exposure to asbestos may cause pleural plaques or the presence of asbestos bodies in the lungs or sputum, but neither of these signify anything but evidence of exposure. Cancers in other sites of the body have been attributed to asbestos dust. The uncommon form of cancer I have already mentioned, mesothelioma, may occur in the chest or abdomen many years after initial exposure. This is not common but causes concern because reported cases are believed to have resulted from relatively low exposures. Mesotheliomas appear to be much more frequently associated with exposure to blue asbestos than to the other varieties of asbestos. 
The quantitative relationship between the atmospheric concentration of asbestos dust and the risk of cancer is not known. It is therefore not possible to specify a safe standard for asbestos exposure at which this risk is removed, although it is generally agreed that the minimum exposure needed to cause mesothelioma is considerably less than that required to cause other asbestos induced diseases. We simply do not know what the levels are. The danger to the general public lies in the fact that inhalation of asbestos fibres may lead to the production of cancers. The two most common types are the common bronchial carcinoma and the rare mesothelioma which I have just mentioned. The induction of mesothelioma is particularly associated with exposure to crocidolite, blue asbestos, but it is probable that some risk of developing this tumour is also associated with exposure to other types. The risk of bronchial carcinoma cannot be attributed specifically to one type rather than another. 
I hope that I have put before the House enough evidence that has been gleaned and collated by various people concerned with this industrially caused problem of asbestos caused diseases to convince honourable members that we need to take into account the real danger in respect to the use of asbestos in our society rather than simply discussing this Bill here tonight in terms of economics and the impact on employment in the Barraba area. I think that the House needs to take into account the problems that can be caused by the use of asbestos and the fact that a lot more research is needed in this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
What changes have recently occurred with respect to administrative procedures applying to the payment of United Kingdom pensions to residents in Australia. 
Is it a fact that moneys paid by the United Kingdom Government have to be converted to Australian currency and that Australian banks and institutions charge for this service. 
If so, what are the charges made by the relevant authorities. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many persons are on (a) invalid pensions or (b) sickness benefits as a result of asbestos caused diseases. 
Are there any special provisions with respect to the payment of benefits for industrially caused diseases such as exposure to asbestos or coke fumes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does the Minister's Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under the Minister's control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) the Department of Education, (b) the relevant bodies, and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978. 
What action has his Depanment taken to alert immigrants of the dangers of using products containing asbestos? 
Are any steps taken to identify immigrants who may be affected by asbestos-caused diseases before and after entry into Australia? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1) What action has been taken to meet community concern with respect to the use of asbestos as an insulating material in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Why was asbestos chosen as an insulant in the ACT. 
What steps are being taken to ensure that asbestos is not used again as an insulant in the ACT. 
What steps are being taken to inform the people of the ACT of the dangers of asbestos and to remove it where it is known to be present. 
How many public buildings in the ACT are known to contain asbestos in potentially dangerous or actually dangerous forms. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What information can he provide on the environment dangers caused by asbestos contamination. 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent report by the World Health Organisation on the dangers of asbestos from an environmental point of view. If so, what were the main conclusions of the report. 
What steps is he taking to increase public awareness of the dangers to the environment posed by asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
) If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
Does the Minister's Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under the Minister's control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by- 
the Department of Administrative Services 
the relevant bodies and 
statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What is the title of each rank in the Australian Army. 
What was the annual rate of pay for each rank during each of the last five years and what is it at the present time. 
What was the rate of average weekly earnings and the rate of average adult male weekly earnings during each of the last five years and what are they at the present time. 
How much was each rank of servicemen charged for service housing in the Army during the same period. 
What (a) conditions, (b) benefits and (c) concessions prevailed for Army personnel with respect to (i) accommodation, (ii) housing, (iii) uniform and equipment, (iv) medical treatment, (v) rostered duties, (vi) postage, (vii) the working of extra hours and ( viii) re-engagement during each of the last five years and what are they at the present dme. 
Is it a fact that Army personnel living in certain localities are now not permitted to visit Area Medical Offices outside normal work hours; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many servicemen and servicewomen were affected by the defoliant Agent Orange whilst serving in Vietnam. 
How many of these persons are receiving pensions or part pensions as a result of contact with Agent Orange. 
What is the long term effect of Agent Orange on an individual at various levels of contact. 
Are there any documented cases in Australia or the United States of America of persons who have been in contact with Agent Orange (a) being made sterile or (b) having Agent Orange induced skin cancers. 
What are the range of illnesses caused by Agent Orange. 
Will a special inquiry be established to investigate the effects of Agent Orange on Australian Service personnel. 
Will lump sum compensation or special pensions be paid to Australian Service personnel who have been affected. 
8 ) Is he able to say what were the effects of Agent Orange where it was sprayed continually on civilian Vietnamese populations. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that since the 1 940s the Australian Navy has been aware that asbestos is a dangerous health hazard. 
If not, when did the Navy become aware of this fact. 
What action (a) was then or (b) has since been taken to protect Naval personnel and dockyard workers from asbestos fibres. 
Has any publicity been given at any time to the nature of asbestos and the associated dangers of asbestos caused diseases. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) bis Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
Does the Minister's Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under the Minister's control normally employ apprentices. 
) If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) the Department of Science, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Is he able to say whether the dangers of asbestos have been suppressed in the United States of America and Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Is asbestos widely used as an insulant in Commonwealth and State railway carriages. 
If so, to what dangers are travellers exposed by the use of asbestos in these carriages. 
What other areas of exposure to asbestos are posed for travellers and workers in rail and transport industries. 
What steps are being taken to minimise the risk to travellers from asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the dangers to health of asbestos. 
Is asbestos used widely in telephone exchanges; if so, what steps are being taken to minimise the risks to Telecom personnel. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Is asbestos a dangerous substance capable of causing several diseases. 
If so, are any steps being taken to inform the public and relevant authorities of the dangers. 
Has he considered labelling asbestos products as constituting health dangers including the risk of causing cancer. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Have any studies been carried out on the number of women affected by asbestos caused diseases as an indirect result of their husband 's exposure to asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last six years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affiairs. I refer to two recent steps by him with respect to youth unemployment: Firstly, the scheme for young people to work for nothing on voluntary projects supervised by service clubs; and, secondly, for an intake of young people into the Commonwealth Public Service to gain work experience only to be sacked. Have Commonwealth Employment Service officers been provided with instructions or been advised of the mechanics of these schemes? Has the CES been supplied with additional staff to cope with these and other schemes? How many young people are now working with supervision by clubs such as Rotary, Lions, Apex, Jaycees, Soroptimists, et cetera? How are young people being selected for Public Service jobs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) How many schools in Australia are known to contain asbestos as an insulant in ceilings. 
What is known of the risk being posed to school children by the use of asbestos in schools. 
How many recent cases have occurred where authorities have acted to remove the risk of asbestos in schools. 
What steps are being taken to warn authorities of the risks inherent in the use of asbestos. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many ex-servicemen are affected by asbestos induced diseases. 
What is the cost to public authorities of these cases. 
Is there any particular evidence of former Navy personnel being more affected than other servicemen and servicewomen. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many Women's Health Centres are there in New South Wales, and where are they located. 
When was each centre built or established. 
What were the staff levels of each centre during each of the last 4 years and what is the current staff level of each centre. 
What has been the (a) allocation and (b) expenditure of funds to the centres in New South Wales during each of the last 4 years and in 1978 to date for (i) current and (ii) capital expenditure. 
5 ) Is he able to say what has been the amount of the New South Wales Government's financial (a) allocation to and (b) expenditure on the Women's Health Centre program during each of the last 4 years and in 1 978 to date. 
Is he able to say whether the services being provided by the Women's Health Centres in New South Wales are being cut back; if so, what effect is this having on those persons using the services. 
-This Bill seeks to amend the principal Act to deal with a technicality. The Opposition is in fact very glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has 'mooved' it. The Opposition does not oppose the measure. However, a further amendment has been circulated. The original provisions of the Bill struck me as being relatively simple when only about three or four lines were to be changed. It was not a question of defining when milk is milk or when milk is not milk; but the question arose whether milk is a product of milk. This Bill was drafted and introduced and today the Government will move an amendment to try to clarify the situation further. We do hope that the Government and the Minister have it right this time. 
The Bill is very simple indeed. Its purpose is to define what 'dairy produce' means and what the Australian Dairy Corporation can promote. The 
Bill gives us a chance to speak on dairy promotion in general. I am also quite sure that other members will comment briefly on the state of the dairy industry, particularly those members from dairying electorates. I do not think that it would be a bad idea to set out what the Dairy Corporation does. It is in its third year. It is one of the statutory authorities established by the Australian Government to carry out regulatory marketing and to take promotional responsibilities in the agricultural sector. The authority was established under the Dairy Produce Act 1924, and following an amending Bill in 1975 the Corporation replaced the Dairy Produce Board. The main functions of the Corporation provided by that Act are: 
to promote the export from Australia of dairy produce; 
to control the export from Australia of dairy produce; 
to control the sale and distribution of dairy produce after its export from Australia; 
to promote trade and commerce in dairy produce amongst the States, between States and Territories and within the Territories; 
to improve the production and encourage the consumption of dairy produce in the Territories; and 
such other functions in connexion with dairy produce as are provided by the regulations. 
On 1 July 1977, new marketing arrangements commenced in the dairy industry, which were aimed at progressively encouraging and enabling the manufacturer of products to find a viable market- hence an adequate return to the farmer. The Corporation's authority has been broadened to administer the new arrangements. These arrangements include the operation of a compulsory revenue distribution system for certain prescribed manufactured dairy products, the replacement of the voluntary equalisation scheme operated by the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd which had operated for over 40 years. The dairy industry owes a debt of gratitude to this company which is now in voluntary liquidation- which I think is the arrangement- because it had played an invaluable role during it existence. 
In 1977-78, the Corporation continued to provide a link between Rural Credits Department finance and the manufacturers. Through this arrangement funds are provided under ministerial guarantee to enable payment to manufacturers and hence farmers prior to the receipt of sales, proceeds from domestic and export markets. In general we can say that the Corporation's activities include: Marketing Australian dairy produce overseas; assistance to manufacturers of Australian butter, cheese, casein, skim milk powder and whole milk powder; in finance, storing, shipping, insurance and market information; and in taking initiatives to achieve the highest quality standards. It also negotiates bulk export sales where licensed exporters find that they are unable to meet massive international competition or cannot negotiate government to government sales. It administers the revenue distribution system. The Corporation advertises, promotes and utilises publicity for Austraiian dairy produce in overseas markets. It has operated joint venture milk plants in South East Asia in partnership with Asian businessmen. It undertakes national umbrella advertising, promotion, publicity and public relations for butter, cheese, milk and other dairy products in Australia. It attempts and indeed succeeds in developing and establishing new markets. In general, it regulates Australian dairy produce exports. 
The situation this year is a little bit happier for the dairy industry. Things are certainly better in 1978-79. I think that we can put this down to higher levels of underwriting by the Government- I am sure that the industry is grateful for that- seasonal conditions, an increase in exports, and a slower rise in costs. But it must be accepted that the basic underlying cost price pressures still prevail in the dairy industry, as do the world surplus stocks of butter and skim milk powder. These stocks are particularly high at present and look like remaining so, particularly in the European Economic Community. The problem with the dairy industry in terms of exports is that so little is really traded upon the international markets compared with what is produced world wide and the change in the volume that is traded in the international markets provokes a more than proportional increase or decrease in prices. Production in Australia is declining, but not at an exceptional rate. I saw one set of figures in which it was estimated at 6,497 millilitres in 1974-75 down to 5,300 millilitres in 1978-79. Similarly, the number of holdings has been declining, probably at a greater rate than that of production. The Australian Dairy Corporation has said that the number of dairy farmers is now less than 24,000. The Australian Bureau of Statistics classifies dairy farmers by holdings. It says that the figure is something like 32,200. But I think that is holdings where there are dairy cows. It is certainly a big decline on former years. The Corporation calculates a decline of 2,500 farmers a year which is a decline since the early 1970s of 8 per cent a year. 
The fluid milk market which accounts for 30 per cent of whole milk production and over 50 per cent of industry revenue is controlled by local and State authorities. Prices are set at levels well above returns from manufacturing milk and are adjusted periodically to reflect partly or wholly changes in cost. In some areas the revenue from fluid milk sales is distributed amongst all dairy farmers, whilst in other regions only producers with a fluid milk quota receive returns from this market. Levies are imposed on butter and cheese and some other manufactured products for the domestic market so that prices are effectively set at above world market levels. In addition as I have said before, in 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79 returns to producers have been underwritten for the bulk of manufactured output. 
I was speaking about the international market. I think that we can say quite clearly that the continued vagaries of the international market place have meant that the Australian market still remains the most significant market for the dairying industry. However, increasing production and promotion of substitutes for some dairy products, particularly butter, have meant that the growth of even maintenance of the local market cannot be assured without a great deal of effort on the part of the industry. 
The policies and priorities which have guided the work of the Australian Dairy Corporation during 1977-78, for which I have information, were basically participation in the promotion of dairy products to the Australian consumer and retailer, supplementing the existing activities of those marketers actively engaged in marketing and promoting within Australia; also the encouragement of the development of new dairy products and the development of relatively neglected markets which showed potential and which deserve cultivation. For example, food service and industrial usages. In addition, the Corporation has a long-term interest in the promotion of dairy products that are likely to receive little attention from marketers concerned with the day to day needs of the market place. As an example I mention retail staff training. 
If we look at some of the national promotional activities by the Australian Dairy Corporation, we find that from October 1977 onwards marketers and retailers were introduced to a virtually continuous program of nationally advertised promotions for dairy products covering the following 1 5 months. Each promotion was designed to feature one or more dairy products with the object of expanding the market. That program was dubbed the 'Dairy Year'. It grew out of discussions with retailers and marketers. It was designed to assist marketers in their brand promotion advertising activities under the umbrella of each promotional theme of the Corporation. The 'Dairy Year' program expenditure of $ 1.1m during 1977-78 embraced television advertising, colour magazine advertisements, support and provision of display material featuring the promotional themes. This material was placed in over 1,700 supermarkets for each promotion by an auxiliary merchandising force. 
Sales results of six major segments of this promotion have now been monitored. Independent market studies showed that in the period of the October 1977 cheese promotion cheese sales rose by 8 per cent on those for the period a year earlier. This is a traditionally high period of cheese sales but thanks to the united efforts of cheese marketers, retailers and promotion, a similar result was achieved for the May-June period. An Australian cheese symbol has been designed and is now used for all cheese advertising. A number of marketers and retailers are now using the symbol in their own promotional material for Australian cheeses. 
In recent years domestic table butter sales have fallen at a rate of 15 per cent per annum. It has been very important that promotion be directed to stopping this fall. During the six months, January to June 1978, the rate of decline slowed to 10 per cent. I believe that the Australian Dairy Corporation hopes to slow this decline and to keep it well into single figures. During and immediately after the Corporation's butter promotion an independent market audit showed that butter's share of the edible fats market rose by 1.3 percentage points nationally. This was in the face of the margarine price cutting war which ran during those six months. So, as long as Australian Dairy Corporation promotes vigorously it certainly can achieve positive results with respect to cheese promotion and it can halt the decline in the usage of butter in Australian homes. 
There are many other facets of the Australian Dairy Corporation marketing. These relate to the practical co-operation between the Corporation's National Marketing Department and individual companies manufacturing and marketing dairy products. Following the redefinition of the job specifications for the Corporation's State promotion managers the Australian Dairy Corporation has now developed a close relationship with the retail trade at all levels. The dairy industry is now seen by its retail trade as taking a positive attitude towards national promotion. The Australian Dairy Corporation also has now set up a Dairy Foods Advisory Bureau. It has specialist staff with a parctical knowledge of home economics, particularly in the areas of food, food usage and nutritive values. 
In the last 12 months or more the bureau has been busy helping to create the advertising material for various expanded programs of promotion. An example of this is that some new educational material was developed during the year and offered to schools throughout Australia through the annual catalogue. I understand that about 1,500 schools now regularly obtain from the bureau material on cookery teaching and information on dairying and dairy products. This bureau involves itself in quite a few areas. I do not think I need to mention them all today. 
The development, promotional and marketing part of the Corporation also appointed a development manager specifically to endeavour to further the use of dairy products in the industrial and food service markets. The people appointed assessed the industries which represented the most potential for new or expanded dairy sales and assisted in gaining a number of additional major contracts for the supply of industrial dairy ingredients. Work is still continuing on the market testing of a dairy based spread with improved spreadability with the objects of holding or increasing total sales of butterfat. Legal and technical problems were overcome during 1977-78. A manufacturer was chosen to test the market in the Adelaide area in the present financial year. We await the results of that test. 
The Corporation also liaises closely with the State dairy industry authorities and milk boards on ways in which they and the Corporation could work together to promote market milk. As I understand it, it still has not been possible to agree on the form of a national milk promotion during the year, but this objective will be actively pursued in the future. By and large, the Dairy Corporation's promotional activities are wide ranging and, I am sure, would meet with the approval of most honourable members. But, of course, we are always interested in the Corporation doing more and achieving more. 
I think it would be apt to touch on the marketing arrangements in the industry that flowed from the Industries Assistance Commission report of September 1976. The first stage came into play on 1 July 1977. That was known as the date of implementation of Stage I of a staged marketing scheme for the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. The scheme, aimed at achieving a stable and viable base for current and future operations of the industry, as I said, was recommended in the IAC report. Stage I established a compulsory levy-disbursement system for certain classes of dairy products- namely, butter, cheese, skim milk powder, casein and wholemilk powder- designed to protect the domestic pricing structure. Under this system manufacturers receive an equalised market return for production of prescribed dairy products irrespective of whether that production is sold on domestic or export markets. 
An essential element of the level of return received by manufacturers under the new marketing arrangements was the Commonwealth Government's commitment to underwrite production of butter, skim milk and buttermilk powder, cheese and casein in 1977-78. This underwriting scheme provided for contributions from State governments on the basis of the Commonwealth providing $2 and the States $1 for casein, skim milk and buttermilk powder. Not all State governments accepted the commitment and in the States that did not do so the underwritten level of those products was reduced. Additionally, the Commonwealth Government agreed to underwrite certain approved sales of wholemilk powder in non-traditional markets. 
Assisted by the Australian Dairy Industry Advisory Committee, the Corporation reviewed the system of allowances for domestic and export sales which had become a feature of the previous voluntary equalisation scheme. This review resulted in significant changes designed to obtain, where possible, certain costs, relating to the manufacture and sale of dairy products, from the market place. The precondition for the establishment of Stage I was that the Commonwealth Government provide for the establishment of Stage II by 1 July 1978. The 1976 IAC report recommended that Stage II provide for a national market entitlement scheme at farm level which would ensure that market signals were more effectively passed back to producers and processors in order to encourage production to be in line with viable market outlets. However, failure to obtain unanimity among the State governments on the form of the entitlement scheme resulted in the Commonwealth Government establishing Stage II as a system of selective underwriting aimed at achieving a result similar to the entitlement scheme but at factory rather than farm level. 
Under the system of selective underwriting provision is made to limit the quantity of prescribed dairy products which is underwritten according to the production and market circumstances obtaining for each product. The Stage I pooling arrangements were modified from 1 July 1978 to provide that production in excess of the underwriting ceilings that are fixed for prescribed products will receive only the average export pool return established for each product. 
Obviously Stage III will never be achieved because Stage II has been aborted in terms of the original IAC recommendations. My information is that even some members of the IAC who made those original recommendations- and certainly most of the people to whom I have talkedbelieve that the time has passed when Stage II, a market entitlement scheme, will solve the problems of the industry. I understand that an industry conference held in Canberra some two weeks ago by the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation strongly favoured the continuation of selective underwriting. So we have reached the stae where the present system, as we understand it, will be continued. 

 Mr Webster, the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation, is reported to have said at the most recent Bureau of Agricultural Economics Outlook Conference that he could see the need for some expansion in production. I find this reasonably hard to understand because we are faced with a situation in which world export markets are declining and world stocks of dairy products are extremely high. However, I think that what  Mr Webster  was more sensibly referring to was the fact that to be a reliable supplier on the export market one always needs a fair level of stocks of dairy products. One has to calculate how much production should be in excess of local consumption or local supply and demand. As a marketer he may be in a better position to judge that. However, I am sure that production will continue to decline over the next four or five years regardless of what people in the industry in individual States would like to see happen for marketing or selfish reasons. That view was recently backed by some studies carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which forecast a decline in production of some 3 per cent per annum over the next four or five years even though this year has seen an expansion in production due to seasonal factors. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It agreed with the original Government amendment to the Act and agrees now with the further amendment. It feels sure that 'dairy products' have now finally been defined. 
-At the outset I would like to rebut the accusations by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  that none of us on the Labor Party side have had anything to do with the egg industry because we are from city electorates. From city electorates we may be, but the city electorate of Werriwa has probably had more laying hens in it than any other electorate in New South Wales has had for a very long time. Further to that, I grew up on a poultry farm where I lived for the first 33 years of my life. We had some 20,000 or 25,000 chooks for quite a while. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  also had 20,000 hens. So it is a bit of a nonsense to say that we have had no experience with the egg industry. Apart from that, I would like to say that I agreed very much with some of the matters the honourable member for Fadden raised inasmuch as he said there was opposition in some areas of the egg industry to this move to increase the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia levy from $ 1 to $2. 1 was on the executive of the Associated Poultry Farmers of Australia for a period and members of that association from New South Wales have contacted me as they represent now the smaller farmers. They have some misgivings and would put forward some qualifications to this Bill which I would hope to touch upon. 
I think honourable members were appreciative and understanding of the points raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  There is a minority of producers in north Queensland. I would think that the Government, its advisers and the Minister could look at the question of exemptions in that area in the future. Hopefully this will be the last increase. But, from what the honourable member for Dawson says, we have here a very special case; and I think something needs to be done about it. 
The Minister's second reading speech set out the reasons for the legislation. The Opposition, as has been already indicated, does not oppose it. We have already said that at the organisational level the poultry industry by and large goes along with it. The honourable member for Fraser has pointed out the situation in the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps I could give some background to the poultry industry legislation. At present the Poultry Industry Levy Act, the Poultry Industry Levy Collection Act and the Poultry Industry Assistance Act which came into operation on 1 July 1965 embody a scheme which is designed to give the Australian egg industry an opportunity to achieve a reasonable degree of stability. The scheme is in effect an extension of the States egg marketing arrangements which have been established for many years to a single Australian marketing plan. 
Within the framework of this scheme, the State egg marketing boards remain autonomous and perform their normal functions of marketing the eggs placed under their control. These boards also act in concert to ensure that the scheme operates with equity for the benefit of the whole of the poultry industry throughout Australia, and this co-ordination and liaison is achieved through the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia whose membership comprises all the members of all State egg marketing boards. As the honourable member for Dawson has pointed out, the farmers in his area have no representation. 
The Poultry Industry Levy Act is the one that imposes a levy in respect of hens in excess of 20 kept for commercial purposes and which are over six months of age. The levy is imposed on a prescribed day each fortnight and payment is due within 14 days of the day on which it is imposed. The maximum levy was $ 1 a hen. It has now gone up to $2 a hen. The Poultry Industry Levy Collection Act provides for the collection of this levy. It includes provisions whereby the Commonwealth Government may enter into an arrangement with a State with respect to the collection of the levy in that State on behalf of the Commonwealth by the egg board for that State. The Poultry Industry Assistance Act establishes the Poultry Industry Trust Fund in which are appropriated amounts equal to the amounts collected by way of levy under the Poultry Industry Levy Collection Act. The other main provisions in the Act cover the distribution of the money in the Fund by grants to the States for the financial assistance of the poultry industry and by expenditure on research. We debated amendments to that Act at the end of last year. 
There is no need to go too much into the mechanisms to any great extent but perhaps we can spend some time on what the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia does. The three Acts that I have already spoken about are in effect the Australian egg marketing scheme which is now embodied in this legislation which was drawn up by the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia. This is the organisation mentioned in the legislation and this scheme is commonly known as the CEMAA scheme. The Council was formed in 1962 by all of the statutory State egg marketing boards to enable the egg industry to act as one body rather than as many separate identities and to speak with one voice on behalf of the egg industry. The Council is comprised of all members of all the State egg marketing boards and 26 of the 40 members of the Council are producers. The Council is recognised by the Commonwealth and State governments as the principal producer organisation representing the Australian egg industry. 
Under the CEMAA scheme, the State egg marketing boards co-operate in respect of marketing the whole of Australia's commercial egg production. Revenue collected from the federal hen levy is designed to enable producers in all States to share equitably in the cost of the disposal of egg surpluses. As an aside, one may say that there are some distortions in terms of the equity. The scheme has provided a framework within which the Council has guided the industry through periods of record production and by means of budgeting by its constituent boards it has been able to a large extent to dampen down excessively high or low producer and consumer prices. Price levels in 1977-78 were generally higher than in 1 976-77. According to figures supplied by the State egg marketing boards the average net price which Australian producers obtained for their eggs in 1977-78 was 70.73c a dozen, an increase of 4.4c a dozen when compared with the previous year's return. Returns were higher in all States except Tasmania where an increase in production resulted in an export surplus. Tasmania normally has little or no export surplus and the influence of the low export price forced down returns to Tasmanian producers. 
The egg industry has always been selffinancing regarding the question of subsidies. 
However, this legislation refers to the equalisation arrangement whereby export losses are shared supposedly equitably and so that producers receive an average rate of return per dozen or dozen equivalent. The effective equalisation of gross returns has meant that domestic prices have been able to be maintained at a level above export prices. Hence, there has been a consumer transfer which can be regarded as a form of subsidisation. In the past this calculated measure of production has been quite high and higher than at present, as the levels of exports have now declined to some degree. However, while exports and equalisation exist consumers will pay more for eggs in this country than they need to without the farmers themselves necessarily getting any benefit for it. 
As other honourable members have said in this debate, producers pay for the marketing of their eggs in three ways. They pay the CEMAA levy that we are discussing. They pay State egg board charges and pools, and I believe that some of the pools recently have gone from 4c to 12c a dozen as a result of the fact that the CEMAA levy is not coping with the export losses. The Australian egg board levies a charge for exports which is deducted via the State boards under the Egg Export Charges Act 1 947. 
As I have said, CEMAA was set up to stop interstate trading and this legislation again refers to that factor. The legislation sets out to circumvent section 92 of the Constitution. Interstate trading had to be stopped so that producers could share equally in the export losses and not simply sell their eggs interstate. The device of putting a charge on hens was the way to get around the business whereby previously egg boards put a levy or struck a pool on eggs. Once CEMAA was set up, the States were able to introduce various forms of licensing. This has been a reasonably slow process, but now I think all States have various forms of licensing and quotas. 
The rationale for lifting the CEMAA levy from $ 1 to $2 a bird as a maximum- I have been told that it looks like being something like $1.80 a bird immediately- is that this is really an inflationary adjustment. A moment ago I said that the net return on marketing charges for eggs was something like 70.73c a dozen in 1977-78. When this charge was introduced in 1965 at $1 a bird the comparative return was something like 25c to 30c a dozen. So, it can be fairly said that it is an inflationary adjustment. Also, it will prevent pool charges by the State boards going up or it will at least allow the boards, we hope, to take some of the charges off. This inflationary adjustment would be very simple except that exports as a proportion of total production have dropped quite a bit. So we are dealing with an equation in how to find a sum which will equalise export losses and at the same time to establish to what extent that is simply an adjustment for inflation given the production levels and the amount that is exported. Exports at present are about 14 per cent of total production. They have been up to 30 per cent since the establishment of CEMAA. However, at present there are shortages of some grades of eggs and this is causing concern. It is calculated that if there were to be no shortage of eggs we would need approximately a 20 per cent production excess based on domestic consumption, not the 15 per cent that we are presently aiming at. The situation must be stated quite clearly. It will always be difficult to have 60 gram-a-dozen eggs available at all times throughout the year. If we are to avoid shortages in those grades of eggs, we will need a production margin of about 20 per cent. 
An anomaly that has occurred with CEMAA is that New South Wales and Victoria between them produce about 78 per cent of the eggs for export. Queensland produces another 10 per cent of the eggs for export. So producers in other States have been paying this $ 1 a bird hen levy to equalise export losses and have not been contributing to the exports themselves. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  referred to that matter in his second reading speech. A concern I also have about the egg industry, apart from these inequities- the judgment lies in the balance between the amount to take account of the inflationary change in money values and the quantities of eggs that we export- is that we seem to have now somewhat of a permanent bureaucracy imposed on the egg industry while the producers as a group are experiencing a rapid decline and a rapid turnover in their numbers. For example, the number of egg producers in New South Wales has dropped to 924 out of 3,370 producers in Australia. That is a rather dramatic decline on what the figure was a few years ago. However, there has been an enormous move towards larger flocks. In New South Wales, 39 of the remaining farms now have over 36 per cent of all the laying hens. On an Australia-wide basis, some 96 farms have over one-third of the total laying flock. The movement is towards larger and larger units. This is just a factor of technology being applied to the industry. There is not a great deal that can be done about it. However, it is a matter that causes the remaining smaller egg producers in the industry a great deal of concern. It is a concern that the Opposition shares. 
Although production controls have been introduced, the 1977-78 production has increased on the 1976-77 production by approximately 6. 1 1 per cent. As I have already said, even with the controls, exports have shown some tapering off. Way back in 1967-68 the shell egg equivalent was about 30 million dozen eggs exported. The peak was in 1972-73 with 58,550,000 dozen eggs exported. The figure declined in the intervening two years. In 1975-76 it went up again to some 40,000,000 dozen eggs exported. In 1976-77 some 29,000,000 dozen eggs were exported and in 1977-78 again nearly 29,000,000 dozen eggs were exported. It concerns me that with the introduction of licensing arrangements and quotas we are building in and capitalising the protection given to the egg industry. I was told recently that 1 5,000 birds swapped hands in New South Wales for $13 a bird egg quota. 
A quota is transferable and this explains to some extent the way in which the industry is centring in fewer and fewer hands. In Queensland, the egg quota is tied to the farm. This is possibly a better system. In Western Australia, the maximum number of hens that can be held under a licence is 30,000. Although it was thought that that quota would be circumvented and that many small farms with 30,000 birds would be set up under different names, apparently that has not occurred. But even in Western Australia I understand that licences for hens have changed hands for $15 a bird. In Victoria I have heard mention of a figure of about $10 to $ 1 1 a bird. This is a matter of great concern to the industry. It might be a nice way to get out of the industry but it is centring the industry in fewer and fewer hands. It is capitalising a monopoly into the hands of a few people. Entry to the industry is effectively barred now unless the people concerned have quite a deal of funds in hand. There needs to be some sort of investigation as to what extent and how much we need this son of permanent bureaucracy imposed on the egg industry. It appears that the industry cannot operate on a margin of much less than 12 per cent to 1 5 per cent of exports to guarantee that there will always be eggs supplied on the domestic market, apart from that qualification I added that sometimes inevitably it will not be possible to buy 60 gram-a-dozen eggs. We have the CEMAA scheme which is administered by the State egg boards. We also have the Australian Egg Board and some administrative mechanisms for collecting this money. I suppose that the State boards provide that administration. We are building on top of this administrative system which is imposed on the industry in which there are fewer and fewer producers. In addition, we are building in this system of quotas and licences as a result of CEMAA and capitalising and in many ways imposing distortions on the industry. The New South Wales Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Day,  has said that he will do something to stop this. Indeed, his Government acted with respect to the dairying industry in which milk quotas were being sold for higher and higher amounts. In my area, many producers objected rather strongly about that because there was no compensation for the capitalisation that had taken place. People felt that they had been robbed, particularly people who had bought a dairy quota and suddenly found that it was valueless. If  Mr Day  can do something about the problem in the egg industry, he will have our respect because it is a very difficult problem. As the egg industry does not receive any direct subsidisation or direct assistance from the Commonwealth Government, except for the money put into the research grants, it would seem that it is not an industry whose problems can be readily referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. But it is an industry that requires more investigation particularly of what I have described as bureaucratic encumbrance and the amount of money that is being built up in the licences imposed on the industry. 
-Tonight I want to raise two matters which refer directly to the electorate of Werriwa. Since I became the member for Werriwa all sorts of accusations have been hurled at the Liverpool Women's Health Centre in my electorate. The centre is under some attack in terms of the amount of funding going into it. I do not want to quote too many figures, but the Commonwealth Government has allocated only $73,000 to the centre this year compared to the sum of almost $126,000 which it spent last year. So the centre is under some sort of attack with respect to funding. Even more importantly, there are always a lot of questions raised about this centre. I have heard it described as an abortion clinic and that it is run by radical Marxist lesbians, et cetera. Accordingly, I arranged for a professional welfare person from an outside organisation to approach this centre to request a breakdown of the reasons why women visit the centre. The co-operative that conducts the centre agreed that the files could be examined provided a guarantee of anonymity was given. The people there are very conscious of the need to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of the files. 
Eventually this was arranged and the professional person, who is a specialist in mental retardation, was allowed to look at those files. In view of the fact that we will eventually be debating the matter of abortion in this House, I thought that honourable members may be interested in a sample of 1 , 000 files taken from one point onwards. The files covered a period of some four months. Of these 1,000 visits, 47 per cent of the women were aged between 20 and 40 years; some 45 per cent were below 20 years of age; and 8 per cent were over 40 years of age. Of the 1,000 visits, migrant women comprised about a quarter of the sample. Of these visits 392 were for contraceptive advice; 122 were for general medical problems; 1 18 were for pregnancy counselling; 64 were for vaginal infections; and 55 were for abortion referrals. From that point the figures taper down. I will not go into them all. However, 47 visits were for pap smears, 25 for menstrual problems and 23 for sex education. The figures show quite clearly that the first four categories, contraceptive advice, general medical problems, pregnancy counselling and vaginal infections, represented over 70 per cent of the visits and in fact abortion referrals represented only 5.5 per cent of the sample looked at. So it cannot really be maintained that the Liverpool Women's Health Centre is an abortion clinic. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer- I am glad that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  is at the table- concerns telephone charging in most of my electorate of Werriwa. This area is classified as an outer Sydney zone. Hence we have the ridiculous situation of one half of a factory being in the Sydney zone while the other half is in the outer zone and telephone calls are at trunk rates. Telecom Australia persists with the fiction that the centre of Sydney is the General Post Office. As Telecom has just earned a profit of $84.5m I think we need to end this fiction. If one looks at the inner telephone zone for Sydney one finds that some 36.5 per cent of that area is over water. This is because the General Post Office is supposedly the centre of that zone. If one looks at the outer metropolitan zone one finds that something like 50 per cent of that telephone charging area again is over water. It seems to be a nonsense to continue with the proposition that the GPO is the centre of the Sydney telephone district when the outer suburbs stretch right down to Campbelltown, in the electorate of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  and to the electorate of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  He probably experiences the same situation where people are charged at trunk rates when they are part of the Sydney metropolitan area. I believe that this fiction that the GPO is the centre of the Sydney telephone district should cease. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
How many Community Health Centres have been built or established in New South Wales and in what years were they built or established. 
What was the total staffing of Community Health Centres in New South Wales during each of the last 5 years. 
Is it a fact that of 2,200 positions once created in New South Wales, 320 positions now remain vacant and will not be filled. 
What have been the (a) occupational/professional titles and (b) numbers of persons employed in Community Health Centres in New South Wales during each of the last 5 years. 
What funds have been (a) allocated and (b) spent by the Commonwealth on the Community Health Centre program in New South Wales in each of the last 5 years. 
What levels of salary are paid to occupational/professional categories of persons employed in Community Health Centres in New South Wales compared with (a) similar and (b) identical positions in other areas of the Commonwealth and State Public Services. 
Is he able to say what has been the financial contribution of the New South Wales Government to the Community Health Centre program during each of the last S years. 
Is he able to say whether the services being provided by the Community Health Centres in New South Wales are being cut back; if so, what effect is this having on those persons using the services. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
) If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
-In an article headed 'Women seen as a problem in the future'- what is new- in the  Sydney Morning Herald on  Thursday 1 March 1979, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is reported to have said that there were 152,700 more people at work than when the Labor Government was sacked in November 1975. The honourable member has since repeated this statement on television and the article refers to a speech which the honourable member made on 22 February 1979 and which appears in  Hansard.  In that speech the honourable member stated: 
The only reason unemployment has gone up and has gone up by 131,000 in that period is because of the substantial increase in the work force. 
He also said that under the Labor Party Government the number of jobs that were available went down. He also stated: 
It is within the general capacity of the Opposition to lie with statistics. 
I would like to look at the honourable member's general capacity in this matter and place before the House the official figures so that other honourable members can work out the matter for themselves. I seek leave to incorporate nine tables in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows: 


<graphic href="113131197903076_65_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_65_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_66_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_66_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_67_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_67_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_67_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_68_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_68_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_68_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_69_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_69_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_70_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903076_70_1.jpg"></graphic>

The employed civilian labour force of Australia went up in each of the three years of the Labor Government from 5,684,300 in November 1972 to 5,944,800 in November 1975, an increase of 260,500. There were only three quarters when the work force did not increase. In the period from November 1975 to November 1978 under the Liberal Government we saw an increase of only 52,500 compared to Labor's record of 260,500. There have been four quarters when the work force did not increase under the Liberal Government. The honourable member for Macarthur's claim of an increase of 1 52,700 is perfectly true if the period measured is from November 1975 to December 1978, as in December 1978 there was an increase of 100,200 over November 1978. One cannot gain a comparison of the increase in the other December over November figure because only quarterly figures were published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics until 1 978. It is probable that there is always a once and for all increase each December. 
Table 9 indicates that the increase between November 1975 and January 1979 was minus 5,000. The honourable member for Macarthur is not comparing like with like. If honourable members examine tables 1 and 2 I am sure that they will agree with me. The calculations in table 9 show that, in fact, there has been a drop in the work force of 220,000 people. Tables 3 and 4 show that the participation rate of persons in the work force for the three Labor years in office was 62.1 per cent, 62.3 per cent and 62.7 per cent. Those were the highest rates ever. For the three Liberal years since the rate has been 61.5 per cent, 61.4 per cent and 60.5 per cent. At no time has it ever been over 62 per cent, a figure it always exceeded under Labor. 
Tables 5 and 6 indicate that for the three Labor years the unemployment rate was 2.1 per cent, 3.7 per cent and 5 per cent. Under the Liberals it has been 4.5 per cent and 5.5 per cent and it is now near or in excess of 6 per cent. Tables 7 and 8 provide additional information and confirm the view of the honourable member for Macarthur with respect to female unemployment. I object to the honourable member's use of figures to project a falsely optimistic view of the problem of unemployment. One needs to refer to the recent paper put out by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, which projected that 600,000 people would be unemployed in the future. I am also at a loss to understand the honourable member's reasoning. One does not measure unemployment by employment. The figures on the participation rate show that this is false in any case. The analogy I would use is that one does not measure the number of people not in the army by the number of people in it. If one is measuring the number of people unemployed one takes the figures on the number of unemployed. If one is measuring employment one measures the number of people employed. 
I second the motion. The Opposition believes very strongly that there should be a joint committee on defence separate from the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that we now have. The terms of the motion by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  set out the areas which we see as needing scrutiny. I seek leave to have the terms of the motion incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The motion reads as follows- 

1 ) That a standing committee of this House be established to: 
examine and report upon- 
the capacity of Australia's defence forces to meet the criteria of substantial self-reliance set out in the Guam doctrine; 
the appropriateness of the existing organisation of Australia's defence forces; 
the capacity of the defence forces to achieve defence readiness in a short period; 
the level of reserves and reserve equipment for use in a defensive requirement situation; 
the availability of replacement equipment to maintain an effective action capability, and 
the effectiveness of expenditure of funds appropriated for defence; 
carry out a continuing examination of the extent to which announced defence programs are implemented, and 
examine such other matters related to the defence of Australia and the defence services as may be determined by the committee or referred by Parliament. 
That the committee be given all powers necessary to carry out its investigation and report to Parliament at least twice a year. 
The number of defence debates in this House in a year can be counted on one hand, apart from specific debates on machinery Bills on a range of matters that come before us. This is the only Parliament in Australia in which defence is debated, notwithstanding the occasional ambitions of  Sir Charles  Court and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  When in Opposition the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  was most eloquent in his concern that defence ought to be debated more frequently. One only needs to point to his speeches, for example, those on 23 April 1975 and 8 October 1975, when he pleaded for more defence debate in this House. Yet now, the honourable member for Moreton as the Minister for Defence has not followed his own wishes to the extent that we on this side of the House would have hoped. For example, his defence statement on 24 October 1978 in which he announced a slow-down of the Government's previous aims- they have since been speeded up- has not been debated. The effect on the Department of Defence of this to-ing and fro-ing with respect to procurement is a very good reason for a committee to examine to a greater degree where we are going in defence. 
The Minister's statement in October 1978 negated the White Paper of November 1976, the aims of which had been aborted at least by February 1978. Now, because of the situation in Iran and the Chinese invasion of Vietnam there seems to have been another shift in the Government's position with respect to spending. We need to consider this to-ing and fro-ing. Last month the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke of a real increase in defence spending of two per cent. In the last Budget a real increase of one per cent in defence spending was announced. After that increase of one per cent all the programs were slashed by  Vh  per cent. The combined increases of one per cent and two per cent together with the cutback in expenditure on the Department of Defence of 2V4 per cent mean that we are up one-half of one per cent in the process. Yet we still hear of Budget bids being trimmed by up to 20 per cent in some areas. We do not know what is happening. In 1976 there was a plan for expenditure of $ 12,000m over five years, corrected for inflation. It is not difficult to make out a case that by 30 June next the Government will be more than $3, 000m short of the promise of three years ago. We have now been told that the Government will spend $ 14,000m, an increase of $2,000m. However, expenditure has really increased by only $ 1,000m. It is now $ 1,000m less than the 1976 pledge with five years still to go. As I have said, there seems to be an inordinate amount of to-ing and fro-ing. 
In peacetime we have to make up our minds as to the relative importance of strategy and administrative considerations in arriving at our defence policy. To make up our minds we need more time and a calmer atmosphere than is present in the occasional parliamentary debate in this chamber. There is wide concurrence in the House amongst those who are specifically interested in defence on the proposal to form a defence committee. One needs only to point to the notice of motion given by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  on 20 February. This was a more agitated notice than the one now before the House but the beliefs of the honourable member for St George are shared to some degree by people on this side of the House. The Minister himself must agree that there is a fair amount of concurrence. I spoke of administration and strategy. On 20 August 1975 the Minister quoted references to administration by Montgomery and Wavell. When quoting Montgomery he said: 
In my own case, I very soon learnt by hard experience that the administrative situation in rear must be commensurate with what I wanted to achieve in battle in the forward area. 
When quoting Wavell he said: 
It begins with the matter of administration, which is the real crux of generalship, to my mind; and places tactics, the handling of troops in battle, at the end pf his qualifications instead of at the beginning, where most people place it. 
They are good quotes. They refer to the Minister's belief in the importance of administration in respect of our peacetime defence forces. I personally have a slightly different emphasis. I believe that our defence preparedness should be oriented towards an administration based on a strategy or strategies rather than administration per se. It would appear from the notice of motion given by the honourable member for St George that he agrees with the need for more strategic consideration. To take into account the balance between strategy and the place it takes in administration is rather complex. We think that these areas should be discussed by a committee. There should be a more bipartisan approach in this 
House to defence. The great debates for and against Australia's involvement in Vietnam should no longer poison the atmosphere when we speak on defence. As we all know the Labor Party opposed Australia's involvement; the Government defended it. The Minister has also asked for a bipartisan approach. On 28 August 1975 he said: 
I would hope that the maturity of this nation is of such a character that we have moved quietly but nevertheless perceptibly towards being able to embrace a bipartisan policy upon defence matters .   The fact of life today, as far as this nation is concerned in defence matters, is that the doctrine of self-reliance is assuming a greater degree of relevance month by month, day by day, and indeed hour by hour. 
That is what this motion refers to with respect to the Guam doctrine. The people within the defence forces and the Returned Services League are captive audiences. I sustain that they are conservative people but, at the same time, they should not be exploited. I believe that when in Opposition members of the Liberal Party made some outrageous statements. They almost accused the Labor Government of being treasonous. The then Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  was subject to a number of attacks. The present Minister for Defence when referring to  Mr Barnard  said that he was living evidence of life after death, and the most complete tragedy that the nation had ever known. These comments may have been made in jest but the debates were serious at the time. The ridiculous claims made in the heat of debate should not occur but they do. There is no need for me to remind the House of the nonsense when claims and counter claims are made. 
I recall that I once prepared a speech- it may not have been a good speech- on naval procurement. I was never able to make it. Whenever I came into the House to speak on defence the debate would develop into an argument. The real gut issues which we would have liked to talk about never came to the surface. There is too much cut and thrust in this House on defence matters on the few occasions when we debate them. I am concerned that the Minister seems to regard some criticism as personal. There is much consensus in the House. We on this side often wish to assist the Minister in putting defence matters into the right perspective. However, that does not stop us from being concerned. 
Some members in the House have attacked the Public Service. Journalists such as Peter Samuel and Brian Toohey have been attacked.  Mr Booker  was strongly criticised with respect to something he wrote recently. I do not think that he has had much chance to reply. In answering a question the Minister stated that  Mr Booker  had said that we do not need tanks; we need missiles. The Minister said that the problem with the harpoon missile advocated by  Mr Booker  is that it gets lost over land. I believe that  Mr Booker  was advocating that the harpoon missile be used on planes to fire at ships for which is it an excellent missile. The notice of motion given by the honourable member for St George referred to precision guided weapons. If the enemy ever arrived in ships carrying tanks it would make sense to sink the ships. 
I believe that Australia is defendable. It is our duty in this House to see that our defence is as strong and as efficient as our resources will allow. The issues in defence in peacetime centre on preparedness and a need for public awareness to overcome the natural apathy on the matter. The  New Testament, First Corinthians  14:8 states: 
. For if the trumpet give an uncertain voice, who shall prepare himself for war? 
What we are talking about is preparedness. There needs to be more informed debate, more informed awareness of the real issues in defence. The Defence Department should not allow its processes to be shrouded in secrecy simply for bureaucratic convenience. One of the things that has prompted this motion from the Opposition is the evidence being put before a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which is chaired by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I have read much of that evidence. I am horrified. I am amazed that people such as the honourable member for Kennedy and the honourable member for St George are not saying more in this place. I am concerned to hear of attempts being made within the Defence Department to stifle constructive criticism by way of the sworn evidence being given before this Committee. The Minister may choose to deny that any attempts are being made to stifle dissenters in the Department, but that is not what I hear. It is evident from some of the attacks on individuals that are being made in this House and in other places that that is occurring. 
The honourable member for Corio spoke of secrecy. We simply do not know what is happening in many areas. For example, I understand that there is a Defence Intelligence Estimates Staff that is now part of the Joint Intelligence Organisation and that that has grown to being bigger than the Office of National Assessments. Do we really know whether that staff, if it exists and if it is as big as that, should be as big as it is? Defence experts are critical of the administration of the Defence Department. We have already referred to the problems with respect to computers. Even a Liberal member of the Legislative Council in Victoria has been extremely critical of the administration of the Defence Department with respect to weapons procurement. I know  Dr Foley  well and have read his Ph.D. thesis on defence procurement. He is a man of substance and his criticisms were constructive. We really do need to understand the procurement process. Some 90 per cent of capital purchases being carried out by this Government are those announced by the Labor Government. The amount going to capital is now something like 12.7 per cent. In the 1976 White Paper there was a promise to get it up to 22 per cent. 
We are talking about preparedness and contingencies. It is estimated that there are contingencies for four or five years time that no one sees. That is the time it takes to develop a contingency that no one sees. In conventional terms of warfare, we probably get two years warning of an invasion. So we are talking about a lag of five to seven years. As to the 88 per cent being spent on manpower, if we wish to increase our manpower perhaps we could do that in something like two years. But if we want to buy weapons, a patrol boat program probably takes five years, an aircraft carrier 10 years or 15 years, and the TFF something like 10 years or 12 years. What I am trying to get at is that it takes longer to get the weapons that it does for the contingency to occur, and this has to be scheduled. I believe that eventually we are going to buy the F18A and, if so, probably more by accident than by design. We just missed out on other aircraft replacement programs. This is an excellent aircraft. It has two engines, it is good over water, it can take the Harpoon missile, and it can mount supremely sophisticated air-to-air missiles. 
We just do not get enough debate in this House on the defence procurement processes. We have a Government chopping and changing, promising a one per cent increase in real terms in one year, 2 per cent in the next year, and a  2Vi  per cent cut-back in the next year. Some budgets will be pruned by 20 per cent. The tanks that are not mothballed are allowed to fire only two live rounds a year. That sort of nonsense is going on. We need to know what effects the Government's overall Budget considerations are having on our defence planning. It seems to me that these considerations are far too important to take place by way of debates in this chamber when the debates themselves are heated, if they occur at all, and necessarily short. The Opposition strongly believes that we should have a more deliberative committee in this House, and I have much pleasure in seconding the motion. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that in this House on 10 April last year, when referring to Kakadu National Park, the former Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development said: 
Stage 1 will become a national park immediately . . . 
On November 7 the Minister also said that the Government accepted the recommendation, that is, the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry, that Aboriginal title should be granted, the national park established and necessary control mechanisms set up, before any substantial amount of construction work is done on the Ranger project or substantial numbers of people are brought into the area. Is the Prime Minister aware that the construction of Ranger is proceeding rapidly and the company plans to bring in several hundred workers next month, yet the national park still has not been declared? Will he inform the House whether the Government still intends to declare Kakadu National Park and, if so, when? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) What statistical information is available with respect to people affected by asbestos caused disease in the Australian community. 
How many diseases are caused by asbestos and what are they called. 
How many persons are affected by each of these diseases. 
What information is available on the dangers of the use of asbestos in Australian industry. 
Are asbestos products identified with respect to the possible health hazards from their use. 
What health regulations apply with respect to persons employed in asbestos mining in Australia. 
Is a register kept of current research in Australia on (a) asbestos caused diseases and (b) safe alternative products. 
What is the expenditure of Commonwealth and State public health authorities on the treatment of asbestos caused diseases. 
I enjoyed the speech of my friend the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  with its historical allusions. I think that today where we have complicated structures and where market forces are not operating perfectly bodies such as the Prices Justification Tribunal serve an important purpose. The Tribunal was not aiming at perfection or absolutism. Its recommendations were never mandatory. This side of the House believes in the sort of market structure where the exercise in the justification of prices by firms acts as a check on indiscriminate pricing policy. No one can seriously suggest that in today's economy, today's market structure- much of Australia's market structure is one of oligopoly- prices are set by market forces. It has long been known in literature on industrial organisation and prices that there are all forms of pricing dependent on the industry under examination. 
It is relatively easy to identify what are known academically as three degrees of price discrimination. Price discrimination itself can arise only due to an imperfect market. There are all sorts of pricing policies by firms in all sorts of industries. Pricing can be on the basis of cost plus a mark up. There is basing point pricing, focal point pricing and predatory pricing. It depends on the market structure one is examining. The honourable member for Moore also referred to the fact that he believes the PJT should look at some of the administratively controlled areas of pricing such as the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I guess that one could look but all one could do would be to pass another value judgment on what the level should or should not be. I basically believe, with respect to some of our commodity boards, that the overseas market sets the prices. In many of the international commodity markets a greater degree of market forces operates than internally. 
I do not think that the PJT ever set out to achieve perfection in pricing; it set out to deal with the real world. The Government has taken the decision yet again to amend the Tribunal. For the life of me I do not know why the Government has not abandoned the PJT as was promised in one of the election campaigns. The stated aim of this Bill is to modify the operations of the PJT so as to demonstrate the Government's concern that the Tribunal in its operation should not add unduly to business costs or inhibit investment. That seems to me to be the main rationale. The Government does not want the PJT to add unduly to costs while at the same time the Government wants it to ensure adequate surveillance of prices. The Government wants to improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined. That is fair enough but waffly. 
The cost cutting goal which I think is the main criterion of the Government will be achieved by these amendments which we are debating. To achieve this cost cutting goal we will repeal the requirements which make it mandatory for prescribed companies to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases. The Bill will restrict notification of proposed price increases to those companies where the PJT decides that it is warranted following an inquiry and then only for a maximum period of 12 months. The amendments make the decision to proceed with a public inquiry subject to ministerial approval and provide the Tribunal with discretion to allow an interim price increase to companies under inquiry. 
The amendments will strengthen the confidentiality provisions so that the Tribunal discloses only the information which it deems will be in the public interest. The amendments allow the Minister to set limits for Tribunal-initiated inquiries and make provision for the Minister to issue general directives to the Tribunal. If the rationale of these amendments is to not add unduly to business costs I think that a body which has been likened to a gummy ewe has had its jaws eliminated, as many speakers have already said tonight. 
The changes that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has announced to the PJT should be seen against the background of the totality of the economic policies of the Fraser Government. The basis of these policies is confusion. The Government does not have a coherent economic strategy encompassing fiscal and monetary policies, a protection policy, a wages policy, government regulation of and assistance to industry and trade practices or a prices policy. Thus at present we have efforts to reduce real wages but, in contradiction, restrictive fiscal and monetary policies, and now emasculation of the Prices Justification Tribunal. As a consequence of the lack of a strategy, the Government responds to diverse pressures ranging from its own dogmatic ideology to the pushes and pulls of every powerful institution and interest group in the society. This can be seen clearly from the Government's attitude and from statements by its spokesmen to the PJT. 
On the one hand there is the Government's and perhaps the Treasury's ideological opposition to the Tribunal and the push for abolition from some firms which feel threatened by it, that is, the firms which have difficulty justifying their prices- for example, the wool brokers of recent times. On the other hand, the Tribunal is actively supported by the trade unions and workers generally who see it as providing some equity in the community, counterbalancing the rigid wage controls to which wage earners are subject. Similarly, the Department of Industrial Relations and the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  recognise the important industrial relations and economic effects of this trade union support and so to a large degree support the PJT. In between these attitudes there is the basic apathy to the Tribunal amongst the broader business community, which feels it provides some legitimacy to its activity, mollifies the unions and affects only a few large firms in any case. All this can be set against the background of deepening economic recession and mounting unemployment to which the Government has few answers. As this recession and the wrongheaded policies of the Government continue, the resulting electoral backlash is forcing the Government to take further muddled measures. Thus we have a series of changes to the PJT, tax laws, controls on mineral exports, protection, social welfare measures and so on. 
I believe that it is an indication of the political bankruptcy of the Government that all it can think of doing is abandoning economic policy, which the changes to the PJT amount to in this area. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, in his statement of last October, spoke of present 'keen competition between traders'. Is there keen competition between the two main wool broking firms, in the steel industry and in the soap and detergent industry? Of course there is not, yet these are the sons of firms that gain from the changes announced by the Minister. The Government glibly talks of promoting competition yet it fails to recognise that in many industries in Australia and throughout the world competition is severely curtailed or non-existent. This arises through the nature of the financial and industrial processes involved. To grow big is often the only way to survive. In Australia's limited market we have grown up to have an oligopolistic market situation, if not a monopoly in many of our basic industries. In such situations Government intervention is required to ensure that the public interest is protected. It is reasonable to debate the details of that regulation; it is not reasonable to debate this principle. Yet this is what the Government is doing. 
The Government is abrogating its responsibilities to the Australian community. The Minister's only justification for these changes is the cost to business of the PJT procedures. Yet the types of large firms covered by the PJT are precisely those which least feel such costs, as they all have highly developed bureaucracies quite capable of handling the load. The companies concerned have to inform all their subsidiaries, agents, customers and the like of price changes. Where is the extra cost of informing the PJT? Firms have to analyse rationally to themselves the reasons behind the price changes; otherwise there would be internal confusion. What extra cost is there in providing some of this information to the PJT? These are issues that the Government ignores as it falls for the propaganda sweeping the world against government regulation without properly thinking through the implications of the changes it makes. This Government, despite its rhetoric, is not even interested in promoting competition, as can be seen from its policies regarding air fares and, more recently, rent-a-car facilities, and the Minister's decision last year to stop the trade practices action against the banana cartel. When this Government speaks of promoting free enterprise, it means featherbedding the powerful vested interests that support it. In contrast the Opposition regards increased competition as an important means of ensuring that the public interest is served through the economic system. However, unlike the Government, the Labor Party sees the faults in the present economic system and is committed to attempting to rectify them. 
The particular aspect of the Minister's statement that most clearly shows how the PJT is to be nobbled is the section relating to the notification provisions. With no compulsory prior notification of price increases the PJT cannot perform the functions it was set up to do. Moreover, the 12-month limit on compulsory notification after inquiries is far too short to enable the Tribunal to have the information required for another inquiry in the future. There can be no proper surveillance for such a short time span. Clearly, any firm trying to avoid justifying its prices will just wait until the 12 months is up and jack up its prices again. To do anything about this, the Tribunal would again have to go through the procedure of gaining ministerial approval, conducting the time-consuming preinquiry consultative process mentioned by the Minister and then holding another public inquiry, just to affect the firm's behaviour for only another 12 months. We are now left with a body that is occasionally to look at the price structure of certain industries. What it can do about such price structures is clear- nothing. However, it can do even this only with the approval of the Minister, giving this Government a chance to succumb, as it usually does, to lobbying by big companies. The Minister succumbed to such pressure in the case of the trade practices action against the banana cartel. Inevitably, he will do it again. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) How many 'S ' type taxation returns were received during each of the last 5 years. 
By what date are (a) 80 per cent, (b) 90 per cent and (c) 100 per cent of returns usually processed. 
How many staff have been employed in processing returns during each of the last 5 years. 
What steps does a return undergo in being processed. 
5 ) What grade are the clerks engaged in the various steps of processing returns. 
How many returns is a clerk expected to examine during a working day. 
If no set number of returns are required to be examined by a clerk in a working day, what is the average number processed per clerk. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Have any steps been taken by his Department to remove asbestos from the ceilings of nouses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
If so, what precautions are being taken to protect residents and Departmental workmen during these operations. 
Are any steps being taken to replace asbestos with safe alternative products. 
How many houses in the Australian Capital Territory are involved. 
-In November of last year I placed questions on notice to Ministers whose departments may be using asbestos, may have an opinion on its use or may have a responsibility with respect to the use of asbestos. In November of last year I made a speech on the dangers of the use of asbestos when speaking on a Bill relating to government assistance to an asbestos producing firm. The dangers of asbestos have been known for a long time in Australia but it is only recently that much publicity has been attracted to the issue. A great deal of credit must be given to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for its radio program  Broadband  and to  Mr Matt  Peacock of that session. An asbestos diseases society has been formed, governments and responsible Ministers have been alerted to the dangers of asbestos and calls are now being made for a full public inquiry into the dangers of asbestos and the way facts have been suppressed on the dangers of asbestos. I raise the question of the dangers of asbestos again today because I passionately believe that there should be a public inquiry into its use and its effects on people. 
It seems ridiculous for authorities to admit that crippling and fatal diseases such as asbestosis and mesothelioma can occur due to exposure to asbestos fibres, yet to deny the growing body of evidence that even minor contact with the material is also critically dangerous. Last weekend's newspapers drew our attention to the possibility and dangers of 1,000 homes in the Parramatta area being built on old asbestos dumping sites and expressed concern about the dangers posed by flaking asbestos at Sydney University and the New South Wales Art Gallery. 
Asbestos dust is carcinogenic. Asbestos dust is killing no one knows how many people in Australia today. Over many years medical evidence from Australia and overseas has shown that there is no safe level of exposure to asbestos dust. Asbestos is known to cause cancer and a variety of other diseases and yet the asbestos industry persists in placing the community at risk. 
It is unfortunate that one firm, James Hardie &amp; Co. Pty Ltd, is by far the largest manufacturer of asbestos products in Australia. It gives me no pleasure to single out one firm. But this firm has recently prepared a background note for media reference when articles or new items are being prepared on asbestos related to health hazards. Last Sunday's  Sun Herald  drew our attention to the fact that a  Mr Sandilands,  who worked for Hardies for IS years, has mesothelioma and is concerned about the dumping of asbestos waste. In yesterday's  Age  a  Mr Peter  Russell, who was formerly in charge of safety at the Sydney plant of James Hardie, is reported to have said that the company repeatedly refused to meet his requests for more stringent controls over working conditions. He resigned in 1970 in protest against the intolerable conditions at the factory where levels of asbestos dust in the air were 90 times more than the National Health and Medical Research Council's current recommended level. 
The  Chairman  of James Hardie admitted last July that 100 employees had contracted asbestosis and other related diseases such as mesothelioma during the last 1 5 years. I believe the Hardies' public relations document is a masterpiece of deception. The industry overall has lulled public awareness and duped bureaucratic surveillance through control of information and generally created an environment which is highly profitable to companies such as Hardies but which is deadly for its workforce and the population at large. 
The technical and expert medical knowledge of the company places it in an excellent position to provide a factual document for the guidance of all seeking information on asbestos associated diseases. The Government clearly believes so, since representatives of this Hardie group of companies are on sub-committees of the 
National Health and Medical Research Council which advises Federal and State governments on Public Health matters, on the Health Insurance Commission, and on other advisory bodies. Advice to government from these company representatives would be based on the company's record in protecting worker health and providing a safe product to the public. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  summarised for the House the main conclusions of the 1977 report of the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer. I refer honourable members to page 124 of the  Hansard  of 20 February 1979. The following points, drawn from that report, are representative of authoritative medical opinion both overseas and in Australia: Asbestos dust is carcinogenic. There is no known safe level of exposure below which an increased risk of cancer would not occur. A number of investigators have indicated that mesothelioma, and other rare cancers, may be associated with quite trivial asbestos deposits in the lungs. It is therefore not possible to specify a safe standard for asbestos dust at which the risk of cancer is removed. There is a multiplicative effect between smoking and asbestos exposure in the causation of cancer of the lungs, so that the risk is increased as much as 95 times more than non-smoking/non-asbestos-exposed people. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  recently assured this House and the people of Australia in the following terms: 
In Australia, as far as I am aware, the dangers of asbestos have not been suppressed. On the contrary efforts are directed continually towards reducing the incidence of ill health caused by asbestos. 
I shall quote from the World Health Organisation report: 
It is not at present possible to assess whether there is a level of exposure in humans below which an increased risk of cancer would not occur. 
To the practical layman that can only mean asbestos equals cancer. The burden of proof that this equation is wrong must not lie with those who are suffering now, or will suffer the agonising deaths of asbestos induced diseases. The Hardie background note has this to say: 
In conclusion it should be stressed that the recent dramatic increase in the incidence of asbestos related disease overseas is a consequence of the widespread and uncontrolled use of asbestos many years ago at a time when the dangers of asbestos dust were not fully understood. Workers involved in the mining and milling of asbestos, the manufacture of asbestos based products- particularly textiles- and the use of asbestos for thermal and acoustic insulation in the shipbuilding and construction industries prior to the 1960s were often not provided with adequate protection. By contrast with most other countries Australia is fortunate in that by far the major use of asbestos has always been in the manufacture of asbestos cement products. These products are manufactured by a wet process and only a few of the processing operations require tight dust control measures to ensure the safety of employees. 
In spite of all these assurances and the known dangers of asbestos, alarming examples are now surfacing which clearly show that the community at large is being exposed to asbestos fibres. The recent revelations of the dumping of asbestos on home sites demonstrate that we cannot rely on the commonsense and social responsibility of the asbestos industry. The chest physician at Halifax Hospital Group reported in the Journal of the Royal College of Physicians, Vol. 12, No. 4 July 1978, that residents developed some degree of pleural damage simply by living downwind of a factory which worked asbestos. I wonder how many residents have been unnecessarily exposed to asbestos fibres through living downwind of asbestos dumps. Honourable members should remember that there is no known safe level of exposure. 
Raw undiluted amosite is in the ceiling spaces of possibly 8,000 homes in the Australian Capital Territory. While left undisturbed the fibre is undoubtedly safe. However, we all know that air turbulence does occur in ceilings and asbestos dust could penetrate the living areas quite easily. Apparently the Capital Territory Health Commission has no powers to stop the contractor who, I am informed, is still putting asbestos into domestic ceilings. Whilst blue asbestos is by far the most hazardous, white and brown asbestos are also carcinogenic. The World Health Organisation, the United States of America and other government agencies make no distinction between the various types of asbestos fibres. For example a guidance note from the United Kingdom Factory Inspectorate states: 
Mesothelioma of pleura and peritoneum. This tumour may follow asbestos exposure (asbestosis may or may not feature). The hazard is currently thought to be greater on exposure to some sources of crocidolite . . . and amosite ... At present the question is being raised as to whether if chrysotile ... is produced in finer form in future it may not prove to be equally hazardous. 
The presence of asbestos may be concealed by a trade name in its compounded forms, or in mineralogical terminology; for example, in material designated 'talc' where chrysotile anthophylite and tremolite may be found. Thus tradesmen and home handymen may be at risk when working with such materials. The public is being exposed in numerous other ways. For example, the Victorian and Western Australian railways and public buildings such as Electricity House, Canberra, the New South Wales Art Gallery, the Sydney University indoor swimming  pool, lecture rooms of Townsville University and school rooms. How many more examples of unnecessary and avoidable use of asbestos are we to have before action is taken to bring this situation under control? We need a national policy for dealing with the problem.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of the policy of the Asbestos Diseases Society. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

A NATIONAL POLICY ON ASBESTOS 
A tripartite policy for Government, Management and Unions for dealing with asbestos induced diseases, and for reducing the future risks of asbestos to health. 
Information on the extent of asbestos use and people afflicted 
Establishment of a national register of people who have been exposed to significant asbestos dust levels people who have contracted asbestos induced diseases companies producing or using asbestos products, or who have produced or used asbestos products trade names of products containing asbestos 
Asbestos induced diseases to be notifiable diseases. 
Worker Health Care 
Early acceptance of a nationally uniform maximum tolerable level based on the best available scientific criteria, subject to continuous review and revision where indicated. 
Regulations to adequately control dust levels and to control the use by workers of protective clothing and devices with punitive fines for non-adherence 
Non-smoking to be a condition for employment in occupations exposed to asbestos and every effort to be made to dissuade current employees  [rom  smoking. 
Medical criteria and surveillance 
A national and uniform medical criteria for diagnosis 
Regular medical surveillance of persons exposed to asbestos 
The phasing out of asbestos, immediately safe substitute materials become available. particularly those occupationally exposed but including those exposed para-occupationally, and inadvertently or indirectly exposed in the home. 
Rehabilitation and compensation of affected people 
A national and uniform approach for dealing with the results of medical surveillance in terms of alternative employment vocational rehabilitation compensation 
Adequate compensation for people afflicted with asbestos induced diseases workers and their dependants families of workers exposed in the home as a result of workers ' occupational exposure para-occupational and handyman exposure. 
Information on health hazards of asbestos 
Information disseminated to raise worker, management, union, bureaucratic, and general community awareness of health hazards from asbestos 
Guidelines for users, including householders, on effective control of existing asbestos products 
All asbestos products, including trade name products containing asbestos, to carry warning labels that asbestos fibres are carcinogenic, and with adequate instructions on handling. 
Replacement of asbestos 
To actively encourage and stimulate research into safe alternative products. 
Adoption by industry of the 'polluter pays' principle, already endorsed by State and Commonwealth Governments and the Australian Environment Council, whereby the costs of pollution including the health care costs of induced diseases are internalised. That is to say such costs are met by the producer and /or the consumer. 
The phasing out of asbestos, immediately safe substitute materials become available. 
As a first step, the Government must replace asbestos industry representatives on government bodies, such as the Health Insurance Commission and sub-committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council. The cynical use of these advisory positions to further the industry's interest must cease immediately. It is one of the absurdities of our society that representatives of an industry which is exposing its workers and the community to the risks of asbestos-caused diseases are advising governments on issues of public health and welfare. Even senior executives of asbestos manufacturers are now falling victim to these diseases, yet the industry continues as though nothing is wrong. 
More information is needed on the extent to which asbestos in all its forms is used throughout our society. We need information on the social costs of the past and continuing use of asbestos. Then we will be in a position to propose solutions and to develop a national policy. There is an urgent need for a searching, fact finding, public inquiry with terms of reference sufficiently broad to enable sound recommendations to be made on this national policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does the Minister's Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under the Minister's control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by: 
the Department of Administrative Services 
the relevant bodies and 
statutory authorities. 
I must start off almost with an apology because I want to talk about the Bill, Tasmania and forestry. I do not intend talking about the 200-mile limit, the successful seduction of Tasmanian voters by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  freight equalisation, koala bears or Christmas beatles. The matter before the House was notified to Parliament for the first time in the August 1978 Budget. The Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill 1979 provides a program for native forestry development which has been approved by the Government. The terms are similar to those in the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act of 1978 but allow for a longer deferment and repayment period and reflect the longer time required for the eucalypts to reach maturity. Under the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts of 1967, 1972 and 1976, loans totalling $55.3m have been advanced to the States to assist the establishment of softwood plantations. Assistance for new plantings ceased in 1976-77. New arrangements implemented in 1977-78 restrict Commonwealth involvement to loans for maintenance of existing Commonwealth-financed plantings for the fiveyear period which commenced on 1 July 1977. The new Act has limited assistance for 1977-78 to $4.2m but provides that payments in the subsequent four years vary with State requirements for the maintenance programs. Delays in finalising agreements with the States have prevented payments being made in 1977-78. 
Since the original 1967 agreement- as was pointed out by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who is occupying the Chair at this time- and with the rise in general community concern about the ecological and environmental impact of forestry several major investigations have been made into forestry. Although forestry is essentially a State issue, this Parliament has a role, financially, and a responsibility, economically and environmentally, to enlarge the forestry debate. In strictly environmental terms, one should not let the occasion pass without reference to the two most heated disputes at present. Some 400,000 hectares of northern Jarrah forests in West Australia are under threat. The gradual removal of forests also threatens Perth's water supply. This is due to bauxite mining proposals in the Wagerup, Pinjarra and Kwinana areas. The other dispute concerns the Border Ranges National Park in New South Wales. All conservationists hope and pray that the Grady's Creek Flora Reserve is not logged. 
The major investigations to which I have referred resulted in reports from the National Estate Committee of Inquiry which my friend, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  initiated, the Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference, the Working Group on Rural Policy- these three documents were produced in 1974- and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. In addition, the Industries Assistance Commission has produced two reports. The first was on timber and timber products, plywood and veneer. It concluded that the industry is generally efficient and low cost. It recommended rates of duty which, in its opinion, may increase total levels of employment and activity in the bulk of the industry. The second report, which referred to certain paper and paperboard products, was issued in October 1978. Again, the 
Government agreed to protection of the local industry. Protection is based on firms operating at Burnie, Wesley Vale and Nowra which is in my former electorate. 
Arising from the report of the House of Representatives Committee on Environment and Conservation, of which I was a member, the Government took up the recommendation that a body such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics should determine the economic viability of the softwood planting program both on strict financial grounds and on the broadest possible cost benefit grounds. From that recommendation we gained a report from the BAE, published in 1977, on plantation requirements to 1980 based on an analysis of supply and demand for forest products to 2020. The BAE now has a forestry section. It is carrying out very important economic research. I refer honourable members to a more recent article by Miss R. F. Treadwell in the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics' of January 1978 in which estimates have been published on the planting rates required between 1976 and 1990 for the supply of softwood until 2030. The conclusion of that study was that an annual average planting rate of 20,700 hectares per annum would suffice on the basis of the most likely conditions occurring, this area being well below current plantings of about 33,000 hectares. The methodology of the study was a simulation of the various supply and demand balances. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table  from  the work I have cited showing the results of the various simulations. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197903286_46_3.jpg"></graphic>

Forestry is not without its ideologies. Attitudes such as 'wood is good', self-sufficiency is good' and 'the only good tree is a felled one' seem to be put up against the longer term views of the conservationists. My ideology centres on a technocratic plea for more fundamental economic research, particularly into what the real questions are. I am sure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you can understand my ideology. It comes from my having been an axe man and a market economist. The BAE report was partly responsible for the withdrawal of the 
Australian Government from funding new plantations. What that report proves is that we do not need new plantations of the previous scale. I believe that just as the States once had to justify proposals put to the Australian Government for funds for water projects, the same should apply for forestry. 
We do not know what the real demand for wood is, what its real value is, how the market for wood products operates or what the locational and infrastructural aspects of the industry imply. For example, there is evidence that the State forestry services themselves do not know fully the size of their timber resource. For example, Western Australia and Tasmania have recently revised substantially downwards their estimates of reserves. Too many supply studies by the State governments simply do not see the light of day. This is critical. I suspect that due to the lack of fundamental economic knowledge, royalties are too low and that timber which we are still chipping in an environmentally disastrous manner would return far more if left standing for future use as hardwood timber. Quotas for hardwood mills in the States, particularly New South Wales, have resulted in subeconomic, fragmented units in an industry in which wages are low and conditions are bad. If the full value of wood were extracted from the market, more investment funds would be forthcoming without government assistance. 
We know that massive investment errors have occurred in the Northern Territory but I shall direct my remarks specifically to Tasmania. All the hardwood silviculture in Tasmania based on production may not pay as much as studies and attention to processing and marketing efficiency would pay. It is not known how much a tonne the Government and owners of the forest resource should be receiving from the chippers. There is no viable reinvestment program in most of the States as producers are not maximising returns from the market. In my opinion, there seems to be a need for more basic research into simple factors such as supply and demand and the role of imports- what price self-sufficiency? These problems are not easily solved. 
There are problems, for example, in the estimation of future forestry requirements due to the time taken for forests to mature. Wood is processed into a diverse set of final products which are both competitive with and complementary to each other and non-wood products, the demand for which is not or cannot be known with any precision. This brings out the most important aspect of timber production, that is that the scheduling of supply from both hardwood native forests and softwood plantations is complex as they are competitive as well as interactive resources. We already know that since the inception of large scale planting of softwoods in the 1960s, the calculated amount of plantations needed for Australia to obtain self-sufficiency has been successively lowered. In the 1960s the target seemed to be 30,000 hectares per annum. The Forwood Conference of 1974 put forward a figure of 28,500. In 1977 the BAE suggested a figure of less than 20,000 hectares per annum. The article written in 1978 to which I referred suggested 2 1 ,000 hectares per annum. 
Plantation pines were meant to displace imports from the Australian market. However, although considerable volumes are now coming onto the market, imports have been unaffected whereas the local hardwood industry has suffered from competition from pine material. This aspect of timber consumption in Australia is related to demands and tastes within the building industry. Woods that are imported such as oregon, teak, cedar and moronti are probably dependent on tastes, the specification of architects and whether people want particular timbers. Whether this will continue to be the case when the really large volumes of pinus radiata begin to come on stream in the 1980's and 1990's is not known. If it happens that way, the hardwood industry, particularly in Tasmania, will be in lots of trouble. Therefore we could ask whether the Commonwealth should subsidise the price of hardwood in some way. The States already subsidise the price of their hardwood resource to the extent that none of the big hardwood State forestry services come anywhere near paying their way. The only result seems to have been the artificial perpetuation of small uneconomic sawmill units in an industry aided and abetted by parochial political pressures. Everyone knows that State politicians can be easily pushed on the matter of giving more reserves to timber mills. 
Is wood chipping the answer? If it is, why are States such as Tasmania selling the wood chip resource to exporting companies at prices which are not only low- I have heard of figures of less than $2 a tonne- but are also declining in real terms? I re-emphasise my earlier points. An investment in efficiency and information could well be worthwhile for forestry. We have almost a crisis of information at the moment. For example, little is known of how the wood products market operates. There have been almost no significant studies of the locational and infrastructural aspects of the major forestry projects in Australia. Even some of those which have been done have never been published. Why? At present the State forestry services find it very difficult to give even an overall estimate of the hardwood volume they have, let alone the categories of cost at which it could or should be made available. How are we to plan a softwood program and now a hardwood program which is supposed to supplement the hardwood resource if we cannot get accurate volume and cost figures on the hardwood resource itself? 
My belief is that much of the forest planning in Australia has proceeded on the basis of what I would call a 'conspiracy of enthusiasm '. It is time for some hardheaded and neutral economic evaluation of the industry. If we are to continue investing money in forestry- in places such as Tasmania this is unavoidable and necessary- we should also invest some time and energy in investigating fully the economics of what we are doing. If we are to invest in hardwood silviculture in Tasmania we must also ensure that that State's forest resource will be processed and marketed efficiently and profitably. No amount of refinement of silvicultural techniques of production alone could possibly have a sufficient effect to guarantee that the Tasmanian hardwood industry will become and remain an efficient and viable industry in the long term. The problems and potential problems in Tasmania go well beyond what could be achieved by simply attention to production. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill; it commends it to the House. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bills before the House. We can see little point in opposing such a minor measure. The purpose of the Wine Grapes Levy Bill is to ensure that the levy is being paid in respect of all grapes and grape juices used in the production of wine, brandy and spirits for fortifying wine. The Wine Grape Charges Act has been in operation since 1929 and the Australian Wine Board, which is financed by this levy, has recently presented its fiftieth annual report to the Parliament. The Australian Wine Board is responsible, under the relevent Act, for controlling the export of wine, for undertaking promotion in Australia and overseas, and for research into the quality of Australian wine and brandy. I would suggest that, after 50 years, there may be some reason to examine the role and functions of the Wine Board. It has a budget of only about $ 1.2m to $1.4m per annum of which approximately $l.lm was gained from the levy in 1977-78. The Wine Board's total promotional expenditure during that year was some $736,000 of which the general media campaign was some $416,000. Given the costs of promotions these days, this amount seems to be neither one thing nor another. The Wine Board needs either a lot more or a lot less money. Perhaps it believes that it is down to the minimum. 
The major promotion of brandy, wine and spirits is now actively and competitively carried out by wine and spirit producing and importing firms in Australia. The Board concentrates on promotion of a more general nature. It concentrates on the provision of information and education as well as some direct promotions. It was broadly accepted that the Board's promotions some IS years ago were instrumental in starting the rapid growth in Australian wine consumption. This growth still continues overall. The imbalance that crept into this accelerated consumption was the switch in consumer preference from red to white table wines. I have always been astounded that more promotion is not given to red wine as an advertising strategy; yet when I have questioned private firms on this aspect they have indicated that they believe that they should push what is selling. Some firms are actively engaged in the decolouration of red grapes and chemists have found that they can happily use dried vine fruit varieties for bulk wines. These activities are beyond the Australian Wine Board to the extent that there are insufficient funds for it to play a role side by side with the commercial interests in the industry. 
The Board provides a service in respect to controlling export standards. No questions are raised about this function. The Board should possibly look at some import standards and descriptions of imported wines and brandies. It would appear, with respect to export promotion, that the Australian Wine Board finds itself either up against very strong international economic and institutional forces, or unable to mount a sufficient campaign to make any dent in the overseas market. We are small cheese internationally as far as wine production is concerned and the policies and surpluses of the European Economic Community make the market place a difficult one indeed in which to gain a foothold. 
Export results have not been good in recent years. Exports of both wine and brandy fell again in 1977-78, the most recent year for which we have figures. The Australian wine industry is losing its market in Canada and the United Kingdom, which to date have been our principal outlets. A drop in exports to Japan was disappointing in that year as this is one of the nontraditional markets to which we look to replace sales lost in markets such as the United Kingdom. On a more positive note, exports to the South East Asian and Oceania regions, with the exception of New Zealand and Indonesia, are more buoyant. I understand that the Australian 
Wine Board has received several inquiries from overseas interests for very large quantities of grape origin ethyl alcohol. However, the Australian industry was not able to tender competitively with the virtual dumping prices offered by France. 
Let us go through some of the export markets and our performance on a country by country basis. I look first at the United Kingdom. Exports of wine to the United Kingdom are now at a low ebb and account for only 10 per cent of Australia's exports. They have continued to fall to approximately 485,000 litres in 1977-78. That is another drop of 8 per cent. In the 1960s, for example, the figure was close to 5 million litres. The European Economic Community requires an analysis certificate to accompany imported wines. The Australian Government Analytical Laboratory is the accredited laboratory for Australia. The Commonwealth Government has increased the analysis fee by 250 per cent from $50 to $175 per sample. I understand that the Australian Wine Board has requested the Government to reconsider this decision in view of the harmful effect that it will have on exports of wine to the EEC, especially the United Kingdom. Because of an overriding objective of cost recovery from the ultimate beneficiaries of inspection services, the Commonwealth Government was not able to reverse the original decision to increase charges. But given the predominance of the EEC in the world wine industry it was somewhat a question of 'taking coals to Newcastle' if Australia thought it could sell much wine there. The phrase 'coals to Newcastle' does not seem to have much relevance these days because I understand we are sending coal to Newcastle and British Steel is buying it. 
Let us look at the position in regard to exports to some of the other countries. There has been a decline in exports to Canada, but it has slowed a little. The position is starting to stabilise. Even so, in the last year there was a drop of some 13 per cent. Exports to United States are increasing slightly. There has been a drop in exports to Japan of about 17 per cent in 1977-78. Japan takes about 3 per cent of Australia's wine exports. As far as South East Asia is concerned, Australia's proximity to this region appears to make markets there a most attractive export proposition for Australian wines. However, there are a number of limiting factors. For instance Hong Kong principally consumes French brandy, leaving the remaining proportion of the liquor market to be divided amongst other brandy and wine exporters. As always, the major competition faced by Australian wines comes from the EEC countries. Often these markets are limited to the expatriates and itinerant populations. However, we are selling some wine in Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore, plus a little in Indonesia and the Philippines. But by and large our export sales are diminishing and we face a larger and larger problem in Australia with respect to the surplus. 
One of the suggestions put forward by the Australian Wine Board in its most recent annual report is a registration of vineyards to generate accurate information on grape plantings, thus enabling informed planning by the industry and possible entrance to it. I think this is fair enough, but it is probably a case of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted. The main feature of the outlook for wine grapes for the present vintage is a forecast of from 85,000 tonnes to 100,000 tonnes surplus mainly of the red grape varieties. This compares with the surplus from the previous vintage of from 30,000 tonnes to 50,000 tonnes. It is expected that 1979 prices paid to wine grape growers will reflect minimum prices set by the South Austraiian Prices Commission and for differing supply-demand relationships for various grape varieties. Total grape production in 1979 at around 770,000 tonnes will be down marginally from the previous year and grape intake by wineries is expected to decline by some 12 per cent to around 380,000 tonnes. Grapes required for drying are expected to decrease to around 285,000 tonnes. Fresh consumption should remain at about 25,000 tonnes. 
The rate of growth of dry white table wine sales is likely to remain particularly strong. The rate of decline in dry red table wine sales and most fortified wine sales is expected to slacken significantly. The winery intake for most white grape varieties is expected to continue to expand, while intake of red grape varieties will contract. The intake of red grapes is likely to be down considerably, mainly due to the reduced requirements for fortifying grape spirit. Wineries are expected to continue to seek to run down stocks of red and fortified wines. It is these factors that are expected to result in the surplus of red grapes left on vines increasing by about 50,000 tonnes to the figure I gave earlier of between 85,000 tonnes and 100,000 tonnes. The final outcome will depend importantly upon the actual level of production and stock adjustment decisions of winemakers in the light of current market circumstances and expectations of future market developments. 
Beyond 1978-79 wine consumption patterns will depend importantly on consumer preferences, the general level of economic activity and the price relativities between different alcoholic beverages. Price relativities in turn will be affected by government taxation policies . It is apparent from the magnitude of red grape variety surpluses that supply adjustments will need to take place within the industry. I guess this is an economist's euphemism for saying there is going to have to be a few vines pulled out. The extent of the surplus problem and options for adjustment within the grape-growing sector currently are the subject of an inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission. I do not know what conclusions the IAC is going to come to with respect to the wine industry. It may be that after three or four years, given that there are no more plantings in the intervening period and given that there is still at least another two years ' plantings yet to come into production, possibly over a period of four or five years, the industry will get a little into balance. 
There has been quite a deal of speculation about how the surplus came about. I think we can identify clearly two factors. One was the fact that there seemed to be a bit of a bandwagon effect a few years ago when a lot of finance moved into the wine grape production due to the fact that consumption was rising so fast. Some people received windfall profits, but many took windfall losses. I think one of the other things that may have affected the amount of grapes being put into the ground has been the fact that the South Australian Prices Commissioner sets a price below which companies could often obtain grapes by planting their own. This is a feature of the industry. I am not knocking what the South Australian Prices Commissioner does, but in South Australia there are many small grape growers, as there are in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area which is represented by the member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  A large portion of the industry has been dominated by firms themselves rather than winemaking firms buying from small growers. Whatever the features of the industry, I think one could economically posit that as being part of the reason why some of the big firms, particularly brandy firms, have gone into planting more grapes. 
There can be no doubt that changes in taxation have exacerbated the wine industry's problems; but it is equally certain that the reintroduction of section 3 1a and a reduction in the brandy excise would not prove an easy panacea. Within the present recessionary climate, there exists an unfortunate conjunction of economic forcesincreased supply costs, demand fluctuations, surplus production and price discounting- which, together with alterations to the tax structure, have left some sections of the industry hesitant of the future. If the present excess of red grapes is to be absorbed, it is necessary to stock large inventories of red wine or to increase brandy distillations. But alterations to the tax structure mitigate against such a course. So it is not surprising that there is a tide of pessimism at present. Unless viable production alternatives can be found or the Government intervenes, many wine grape growers face reduced demand for their crops. That is perfectly obvious. 
The technology of winemaking is such that in the main, wine requires a period of maturation before it is ready for sale. Winemakers must keep sufficient matured stocks to satisfy present demand and sufficient maturing stocks to satisfy future demand. Winemakers must estimate or forecast future sales when making their production and stockholding decisions. The outlook forecast for wine grapes in some selected varieties appears to be encouraging, whereas in other varieties there is concern for the future as winemakers and brandy distillers cannot be seen to utilise all wine grapes that are and will become available. It is very important to consider the prospects for the industry over the next few years. We would need to make some forecasts to give the industry, producer and grower, predictions for the wine and brandy producing industry for the years ahead, particularly 1981 and 1982. We need those sorts of forecasts now. We also need to draw attention to the statistical evidence of industry stocks and their implications. There is a need for action in the development of markets for wine and brandy products. I said a moment ago that there is no doubt that the government policy with respect to taxation concerning the removal of section 31a is really hurting wine growers and is causing Government back benchers a lot of concern. I have a copy of a letter to the editor of the  Murray Pioneer  which was written by my friend the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  and which he tried to dissemble. In part he wrote: 
Frankly, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer do not consult me on the matter of revenue raising. 
They do not consult back benchers, nor do they consult the majority of Ministers. 
Both myself and the Government Parties Rural Committee repeatedly advised the Government to decrease brandy excise, or if that were not possible, to introduce a differential in favour of brandy. 
Frankly, I am just as frustrated as the growers. 
It is for that reason I announced last week that I would oppose authorising legislation when it came before the House later in the year, and would continue to do so. 
So I suppose we can expect the honourable member for Wakefield to cross the floor with us tonight.  Senator Teague,  in his maiden speech in the Senate last year said: 
Introduction of the proposed 83 per cent increase in excise on brandy . . . 
It is now a fact- 
. would be a catastrophe to be borne by one small sector of the Australian economy, the 33,000 people of South Australia's Riverland . . . 
Of course, there has been a lot of flak. One need only point to newspaper after newspaper. We have heard of the grapes of wrath and the wrath of the grape, of the brandy tax storm and of the fact that 'The Brandy Storm Grows'. In October 1978, after the excise was levied, there was a 43 per cent drop in brandy sales. 
The Federal Government has disclaimed that it is considering any new tax but we should raise here the possibility that the Government may put a tax on wine itself. It has acted clearly against the interests of the growers with respect to the brandy industry and so far the responsible Minister has not given a firm assurance that the Government has not considered imposing a wine tax and may not do so in in the next Budget. 
People on either side of this chamber who represent wine growing areas are firmly opposed to the brandy excise tax and also very concerned about where the wine grape industry is heading. The economics of the brandy issue were covered recently in the Industries Assistance Commission's draft report on the subject, issued in the last day or two. It points out clearly just what are the economics involved and why the Commission- it is not a question of its not being sympathetic to the industry- believes that, using economic terms rather than political reality it cannot advocate that the tax be taken off. One of the issues raised was the question of granting assistance to the Australian brandy industry as a means of providing assistance to grape growing. Of course, the relationship between growing grapes for wine and for brandy is clear and is understood by all honourable members. It was argued that the wine grape industry could be assisted by differential taxation treatment, such as a reduction in the excise on brandy, or the imposition of further restrictions on imported spirits, which should induce increased consumption of brandy. This is presumed to result in an increase in the uptake of grapes. Assistance to grape growing and to the producers of grape-derived products. I repeat, is currently under consideration by the IAC in a separate inquiry into grapes and wine. The efficacy of attempting to assist grape growers through measures acting on the demand for grapes and grape-derived products, for example, brandy, will be covered in that report, but we can make a few speculative comments about the line of economic argument that the IAC will take. It says: 
Any increase in the consumption of Australian produced brandy as a result of excise, or sales tax, concessions is likely to reduce the consumption of other potable spirits as much as reducing the consumption of imported brandy. The excise concession would thus discriminate in favour of Australian produced brandy probably at the expense of other locally produced spirits. 
Even if it is possible to induce an increase in local brandy sales it is doubtful whether this would significantly increase brandy output or result in a significantly greater uptake of grapes for brandy production. In view of the current levels of stocks of brandy and rectified grape spirit, there is no guarantee that further assistance to brandy at this time would increase local brandy output or increase the uptake of grapes for brandy production in sufficient time to overcome to any significant degree the existing reported oversupply of grapes. 
The IAC further argues: 
Even if assistance to brandy were to maintain the level of domestic clearances and exports of brandy at the level which existed in 1977 and 1978, the uptake of grapes to be crushed would be about 37,000 tonnes or less than 10 per cent of the total Australian grape crush for wine and spirits. This would be an indirect and small basis on which to provide any assistance for grapegrowing. 
If all brandy imports . . . were replaced by local production, the prospective increase in uptake of grapes for brandy would be only about 6,000 tonnes and would not overcome the estimated grape surplus from the current vintage. It is doubtful whether action against imported brandy would in any case result in a substitution of locally produced brandy for the more expensive imported brandies such as cognac. 
I will not continue reading from the IAC draft report but what I have tried to put before the House is the economic argument as to why the IAC is not sympathetic to the wine industry or the brandy industry. Hopefully, the major report on that industry will be a little more sympathetic, but as it is we have before us a draft report which does not exhibit any great sympathy for the industry but which argues purely and simply in terms of economics. I am sure that the growers and responsible people in that industry dispute that sort of economic argument, as a basic political fact. They are concerned about the people involved and about the industry and still want to have some form of assistance. I do not know where the balance of the argument should lie, but I am afraid that the Government will go along with the IAC. 
There has also been some speculation on just what effect the increase in brandy excise is having on revenue per se. The Government's rationale was that it was increased not to hit the industry but simply to raise excise. Some have pointed out that the impost was so savage that perhaps the revenue derived by the Government had actually gone down. The point is that the rise was so extreme that the revenue to the Government will not decline. To pursue that further, the 84 per cent increase in excise announced in the Budget resulted in approximately a 25 per cent increase in bar prices, that is, a price increase for brandy of about 18c a nip, as compared with the figure of 10c a nip projected in the Budget Speech. The additional 8c was due to the operation of the 15 per cent sales tax on spirits, State licence fees- which average approximately 8 per cent- and commercial mark-ups. 
Brandy clearances for the October-January period were 26 per cent down compared with the same period of the previous year. That is, I believe, a fair figure to use. Because of the monthly settlement figures, the September figures would include pre-Budget speculation and thus be high. Any figures which include that for September would therefore be misleading. It would be reasonable to expect that the final effect of the Budget on clearances would be less than the 26 per cent decline I have mentioned. The immediate post-Budget clearances were reduced by stock adjustment processes of consumers and distributors after the significant pre-Budget speculation which existed. Even so, a drop of anything like 20-26 per cent is significant. However, it is nonsense to suggest that the Government will lose excise revenue as a result of having increased the excise on spirits. For that to happen, a 25 per cent increase in price would have to cause approximately a 46 per cent drop in clearances; that is, an elasticity of 1.84, and we simply do not have that sort of parameter in the present economic situation. 
I do not know. I have departed from the main topic of the Bills, which were simply directed to giving a bit more levy to the Australian Wine Board, but this industry is in trouble and the IAC is inquiring into it. It has examined the wine and potable spirits section and it would appear that, using the economic argument, it is not making recommendations that are sympathetic to the industry. The crunch really comes in the Riverland. That is where the hurt will really be felt. It was a great pity that the 
Government did not take up some of the previous recommendations of the IAC concerning fruit growing in general. One of the points it stresses in those recommendations is that area redevelopment authorities need to be established, particularly for these horticultural irrigation regions, such as the Riverland. Another point of view is that the Riverland itself is probably sufficiently diversified to withstand the pressures upon its wine grape growing industry- the assumption is that a lot of these farms are fruit salad type farms, and that, as long as supply and demand comes into balance in the next three or four years, perhaps these farms will retain viability. I do not know where the equation lies. I am sure that all honourable members look forward to the comment of the honourable member for Wakefield who has a more personal and intimate acquaintance with the situation in the Riverland. 
The IAC draft report also points to the effect of the South Australian Prices Commissioner's setting a price that may be a little too high. Again, I make no judgment on that, although I can understand that that economic effect could be taking place. A few people are saying that a cut in wine grape prices is likely to occur and that this will be one of the ways in which the industry will be sorted out. I believe that that is a rather cruel way to approach the industry. But, as I said at the outset, we await the IAC report on the industry overall. Then we can see what action the Government takes in respect of those recommendations. As to the recommendations of the IAC, the report is still only in the draft stage. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 23 November 1 978: 
What is the cost to Australian industry of 
time lost due to asbestos caused diseases and 
the testing of workers in the asbestos industry for contamination. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to recent reports that the Government's minerals export control guidelines will be withdrawn in the near future? Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the Government's minerals export policy announced last October will be retained and that the export control guidelines will not be abandoned or weakened? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry, in accordance with his power under section 18 ( 1) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act, instructed the Wheat Board to sell commercial bills in order to reduce its Reserve Bank overdrafts? If not, when will he instruct the Board to implement the Government's decision to cut the overdraft by $300m? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Does his Department or any bodies or statutory authorities under his control normally employ apprentices. 
If so, how many persons have been offered apprenticeships in each of the last 6 years by (a) his Department, (b) the relevant bodies and (c) statutory authorities. 
-The Opposition supports the Bills before the House. They are machinery Bills in that they simply extend by a period of one year the provisions of previous Acts. When the Wool Industry Bill 1974 was brought in by the then Australian Labor Party Government it introduced the floor price arrangements which have continued to the present time. But it was originally introduced and designed to operate only for the 1974-75 season. It followed that the financing and accounting provisions provided in that legislation at that time were limited to operations in that season. The floor price scheme was introduced to meet the dire needs of the wool industry at the time but it has proven to be the major initiative of the Whitlam Goverment as far as the wool industry is concerned. 
At the end of the first year of operation of the scheme the Australian Wool Corporation was holding large stocks of wool and the immediate sale of this would have damaged the wool industry. The AWC has continued to hold large stocks necessitating the continuation of the stock holding mechanism, that is, a buffer stock scheme. The Australian Wool Industry Conference has recommended to the Government that the scheme be permanent and that the market support fund should become a revolving fund. The Government has yet to agree to these proposals. The Wool Tax Amendment Bill relates to the 5 per cent levy introduced at the inception of the floor price scheme for wool on 2 September 1974 to provide a fund for meeting any operating losses on the floor price scheme. For administrative convenience the levy of 5 per cent is collected in conjunction with the 3 per cent levy. That represents wool growers contributions toward the financing of programs of wool research and promotion and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
The 3 per cent levy is a continuing levy and needs no annual amending legislation. The present levy of 8 per cent in total has been in force since August 1975. In 1978-79 it is estimated that some $56.5m will be raised from the 5 per cent levy and some $33.9m will be raised from the 3 per cent levy. An examination of the composition of these two funds shows that in 1974-75 the market support fund collected something like $43.6m. We go through to 1977-78 when $56m was collected. Analysing that year, interest received by that fund was $ 11.8m, less the net cost of the reserve price scheme of $ 10.6m. So at the end of the 1977-78 year, there was an accumulated credit balance of $ 135.3m in that fund. By and large over the past four years that fund has been increasing. 
I refer to the funding of research and promotion which is matched by the government. In 1977-78 the 3 per cent wool tax contributed $23.6m and the government contribution was $ 19.9m. The amount of the 3 per cent wool tax going to research was $9.9m in 1 977-78 and the government's contribution was $1 1.5m. In terms of the funding of research and promotion, overall in 1977-78, some $33.5m was collected and allocated by the Federal Government. Part of the promotion and research funds are spent locally and part of the promotion funds are spent overseas on the International Wool Secretariat which works to expand the demand for wool worldwide. 
The persistence of a depressed world economy in 1977-78 set the pattern for the textile situation in which the IWS had to operate. The textile market was sluggish for much of the year even though there was no let-up in competition. In particular, the synthetic fibre companies had little success in resolving their problems of overcapacity. As a result of this, in spite of substantial losses made by many of these companies, particularly in Europe and Japan, the prices of synthetic fibres tended to ease even further, which increased the competitive pressure on wool. It could be several years before the synthetic fibre industry can resolve its capacity problems. 
According to the International Wool Textile Organisation, wool's share of total fibre consumption within the wool textile industry fell by 1.5 per cent to 33.5 per cent during the calendar year 1977. Although this still represents an improvement on the low point of 30.5 per cent recorded in 1 974, it was, in fact, a smaller share of a reduced market. Reduced wool consumption at the carding stage in nine major manufacturing countries fell by about 8 per cent. However, consumer demand at retail level held up well. I am talking about the year 1 977-78. The lower level of raw wool consumption is largely explained by stock adjustment. The early processing sectors had previously built up an inventory in anticipation of a rate of economic expansion which did not materialise. 
Let us have a brief look at the strategy and operations of the IWS. In view of the substantial Australian stockpile the IWS Board decided in mid- 1977 to tilt operations temporarily to give additional support to fine wools. Branches were instructed to modify their promotion programs accordingly and additional research and development projects were introduced. This change in emphasis in IWS activities is expected in time to have an impact on demand for fine wools. At the Board's meeting in June 1978, 1 think it was, it further decided to approve a special program in support of wools of 19.5 microns and finer. Although these superfine or extra fine wools form a relatively small part of the clip, they were over-represented at that time in the total stockpile. The main reasons for this were that the bespoke tailoring trade- the major outlet for superfine wools- has suffered a decline with the growth of better quality ready-to-wear suits; and drought conditions in recent seasons have had the effect of substantially increasing the output of these wools. This special program for extra fine wools will be additional to the agreed marketing plans for 1978-79 and will be financed proportionately by those countries producing them, particularly Australia and South Africa. 
One could talk about the woolmark the wool blend mark and the various other programs of the International Wool Secretariat but I will not get on to that subject because I wish to speak mainly about wool marketing. Before I leave the subject of promotion I should point out that at the Agro 1 979 Conference the Minister said that part of the explanation for the more recent upturn in the wool market was due to Australia, New Zealand and South Africa spending large sums on the promotion of wool. Almost paradoxically at the same time he announced that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics had been asked to instigate a program of research and analysis on the subject of wool promotion, stressing that the point of the exercise was not to make the IWS an Aunt Sally. This is a constructive approach but it must be remembered that there have been well-informed and trenchant criticisms of the International Wool Secretariat, its activities, and its promotional activities in particular. Hopefully we will get a well-researched program of incisive and contructive criticism. But there are always difficulties in trying to evaluate promotion. I think all honourable members in this House are well aware of that and recall the rather tentative conclusions the Industries Assistance Commission reached in its report on the financing of rural products. 
I wish to talk mainly about wool marketing, but the Bills give an opportunity to speak briefly about the industry in general and to review the progress of existing marketing activities. The 1977-78 season saw a continuation of the drought conditions which had affected most Australian wool producing areas in the preceding two seasons. Sheep mortality rates continued to be high, while lambing percentages and lamb survival rates were low. The decline in sheep numbers, therefore, continued into the 1977-78 season. Sheep numbers at the start of the season were 135.3 million, declining to 131.3 million by 31 March 1978, which is the counting date. Further, the ratio of opening population to numbers shorn was lower than normal. Only an estimated 143 million sheep and lambs were shorn for the season. As a result of poor pastures in many districts, fleece weights were low, averaging 4.2 kilograms per head, so that shorn wool production was an estimated 603 million kilograms. Although lamb slaughtering remained static, slaughtering of adult sheep declined by almost 15 per cent. As a result production of wool on skins fell to an estimated /0.7 million kilograms. Thus, the calculations show that total wool production for 1 977-78 declined a little on the previous season. 
I now mention the raw wool market. The 1977- 78 wool season opened on a subdued note with the market indicator at 293c per kilogram clean. That was 7c lower than the figure at the previous season's close. The market gradually improved during August and September, but the Corporation was required to purchase upwards of 25 per cent of offerings during this period. Improvement in prices occurred despite weak Japanese demand, which reflected the relatively slack textile activity in that country. Purchases by Japan from Australia during September were 39 per cent below the comparable 1976-77 figure. Price rises, mainly in the carding sector, saw the market indicator pass the 1976-77 closing level during October to the end of the month at 307c. From that time on the overall movement was down. The worst affected categories were the fine merino combings, broad crossbreds and cardings. The downward movement continued to the Christmas recess, with the market indicator finishing at 297c per kilogram clean. Increased buying from Japan last year led to a steadily improving market after the recess. During January, the Corporation's purchases slowly declined under the influence of the increased Japanese buying. On 10 March last year the market indicator again reached 307c, equalling the earlier seasonal peak. Fine merino wools reached seasonal highs, as did the 24 and 25 micron categories. 
I give this information as history because there has been a rather dramatic turnaround for the year 1977-78. The season closed at about 310c. By about February of this year we were looking at a market indicator of 322c a clean kilogram. This was the highest level for more than two years. I think the market topped at approximately 371c a kilogram a few weeks back, and it is about 365c a kilogram now. At yesterday's sales the Corporation bought 19 per cent of the offering but it is too early to say whether there is another decline. By and large, over the last 12 calendar months, the prices for wool have come back to levels more profitable for the wool industry than previously. It is anticipated that the wool clip will yield in excess of $ 1,000m for the year 
1978- 79. 
Let us now look briefly at the reserve price scheme. The Corporation bought, at a cost of $163m, some 493,000 bales of wool at auction and tender during 1977-78 which, of course, is the last year for which we have figures. The Corporation in that year received some $229m for the 694,000 bales sold during the year. The original cost of this wool purchased over a number of years was $ 191m and the Corporation therefore ended the year with a trading surplus on wool of some $39m. Interest paid on the wool held in stock during the year amounted to some $36m and other costs of administering the reserve price scheme, including storage and transport, amounted to $12m, giving a total cost of $48m. Rather than bore honourable members with figures, I merely point out that there are two categories of reserve price accounts. A net cost of $ 10.6m relating to wool bought since the introduction of the floor price in September 1 974 was debited against the market support fund- I referred to that earlier- which comprises growers' contributions. A net profit of $0.8m was earned on wool bought before September 1974 and that was transferred to a separate reserve. 
In 1976-77 the net cost was $20.28m after gross costs were deducted from a trading surplus of some $25m. By June 1978 growers had contributed about $202m to the market support fund since its inception in September 1974. The contributions in 1977-78 amounted to some $56m. As I said earlier the current balance in the fund is approximately $135m. During the last season for which we have figures, flexible reserves were applied in two major groups, namely, the broader crossbred combing section and the merino and crossbred carding group. 
I now turn to inventories. Wool held by the Corporation in stock at the end of the financial year 1977-78 amounted to almost 896,000 bales, an 18 per cent reduction from the one million bales held 12 months earlier. The highest stock level during the season was reached in January 1978. Stocks at the end of the season were composed of approximately 25 per cent fleece wools of 20.5 micron and finer. Although the overall reduction inventory for 1977-78 was 201,000 bales compared with 236,000 bales for the previous year, the 1977-78 turnover was 1,188,000 bales, an increase of some 583,000 bales on the previous figures. I read those figures into  Hansard  to give some idea of the movements in the stocks and to point out that the stockholding job performed by the Australian Wool Corporation is a rather complex one. 
I would also like to comment briefly on the limited offer to purchase scheme introduced during 1977-78. These operations commenced in Melbourne and in Fremantle on 3 October 1977 and were scheduled to commence in Brisbane on 3 July of that year. The Minister, in announcing approval for the scheme on 31 March 1977, said that the Government's approach to the scheme was based on the Corporation acting as a catalyst for change directed at securing economies in the handling and distribution of wool. The emphasis therefore is regarded as being on demonstrating handling and selling economies. The Minister has tabled a report from the Australian Wool Corporation on the limited offer to purchase scheme. The report came onto my desk today. Apparently the Corporation has lost in the region of $ 135,000 for its first year of operation in the Melbourne centre. My comment on the limited offer to purchase scheme would be that we still do not know what the true story is with respect to the management of this scheme, Maybe it is in this report but I have not had time to read it. It is fair to say that the Australian Wool Corporation holds rather tightly onto information in respect to the operation of such a scheme. I do not think that we should damn it because a loss was incurred. It might be that there is an unarguable need to experiment and evaluate proposed marketing innovations. There may be lessons to be learnt from the alleged failings of this scheme. These need to be taken into consideration to see whether such schemes can achieve their intended objectives. 
In getting on to more general matters with respect to wool marketing and wool marketing reform, at present there are three proposals for modifying the present marketing system. The National Council of Wool Selling Brokers and the Australian Council of Wool Buyers have each proposed setting up a wool exchange to handle all wool for export. The third proposal, which was recently prepared by the AWC at the request of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, envisages that all wool destined for export would be purchased from a single authority. This document only came into my hands today and it is rather weighty. The AWC maintains that there are three principal reasons for a need to change wool marketing at this time. The report is entitled 'Supplementary Report on a Review of the Corporation's marketing proposals for December 1973' and by and large the Wool Industry Conference has been working on those proposals since that time. The three principal reasons that the AWC puts forward for a change in wool marketing relate first of all to its contention that there is no effective or equitable means of managing the flow of wool on to the market. Secondly, it maintains that the Corporation's ability to act vigorously on behalf of individual growers in the market has been limited by its own position as a passive buyer. Thirdly, and probably more importantly, it maintains that the introduction of least-cost, most-effective systems for handling of wool in store and preparation for sale and shipment that would benefit the entire industry is constrained for two reasons. One is the maintenance at auction of individual ownership of wool to point of sale, and the other is the high level of fragmentation in the total distribution system, which also limits exposure of market information and compounds the problem of quality control, of clip preparation and packaging. Those are the contentions. 
I will go back to these three major proposals for modifying the wool selling system. The National Council of Wool Selling Brokers proposal can be interpreted as the institutionalising of the present system, with more control of operations vested in growers' hands by representation on the Board and the role of private buyers curtailed by requiring wool for export to pass through the exchange. It would seem that all exchange members would be required to use the same methods and have the same charges for services. The curtailment of private buying and the uniformity in methods and charges would effectively reduce the level of competition in the wool market and reduce the marketing options to growers. 
The proposal also suggests direct purchase by bulk classers which could be an advantageous innovation. By contrast, the Australian Council of Wool Buyers proposal places emphasis on stimulation of competition among members of the exchange by permitting various methods of handling, selling and setting charges. However, the proposal would still effectively prevent private buyers from dealing directly with overseas mills. The export marketing system proposed that all wool destined for export be purchased from a single authority. It is claimed that such an arrangement would maximise grower returns, particularly insofar as it led to reduced marketing costs through the adoption of currently available technologies and modified selling procedures. 
I think we need to discuss, before we evaluate these three proposals, some of the pros and cons of centralised marketing of wool. I have already said that the proposals by the Australian Wool Corporation going back to December 1973 are the ones the industry is working with and they more or less propose the rather centralised selling of wool. The industry is still arguing for it, as I have pointed out. There can be many arguments for and against these proposals. There is an ongoing debate. We need to look at it first of all from the point of view of the grower. I think we need to come to some sort of conclusion by way of analysis as to whether centralised marketing increases the producer's bargaining power in the market. This will depend, first of all, on the extent a central marketing agency regards itself as representing the wool growers. Secondly, it will depend on the existence of excess profits already in the system which allegedly can be siphoned off. Thirdly, it will depend on the ability of the agency to be a market with equal or better efficiency. 
If wc lock at these three dependencies from the perspective of the present system, I guess whether or not an agency regards itself as representing wool growers depends very much on the objectives of that agency and I would think that the A WC sees itself as representing the objectives of the grower. The present extent to which brokers and buyers, including private buyers, make excess profits depends on the degree of competitiveness among each category of firm. Price competition among brokers is minimal or non-existent and as brokers operate as agents for growers and buyers it can be held that this antagonism of interest is not conducive to marketing efficiency. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has shown that there is pricing inefficiency in the wool market but it is not so confident that this would necessarily be eliminated by a central marketing authority because of other problems such as the bureaucratisation, diseconomies of scale and so on and the fact that there is still scope for innovation within a competitive framework. I acknowledge that it could be argued that centralised marketing could give operational efficiency via rationalisation of capacity, and here I am particularly talking about storage. What we are doing here is trying to move wool from overutilised to underutilised storages. One could rationalise documentation. One could argue that one could more effectively introduce innovative methods such as technological change. But here again there can be dangers if the central marketing authority just goes for one major change. It may be better to carry out a range of experiments. 
There is also the argument with respect to economies of size- for example, to increase the extent of interlotting and selling more small class lines as star lots. But here again I think one can put up a counter argument. Is it necessary to have a centralised marketing authority for this or not and are there diseconomies above a 20-bale lot size? Again the BAE's evidence- the Bureau has gone into this to some degree- is not definite. 
Problems also arise when a centralised marketing authority tries to set charges for services and when all the functions and processes in the market are integrated. As a result, the centralised authority virtually has to set some shadow prices. The final question is whether centralised marketing can achieve improved supply management. The implication is that a centralised marketing authority, by use of stocks, could supply reliably what is needed by the world wool fibre users. As buyers commit themselves to the processing of the wool they buy six to eight months ahead, it is important that supply and price are not subject to aberrations. However, buyers may be weary of a single monopoly seller if for any reason there were a sudden jump in prices as a result of the central marketing authority's decision. Once such a decision is made the advantages may be lost. At present it is seen by many market economists that it is better to have many ups and downs as long as they are smoothed out. More importantly, how would a centralised marketing authority distinguish between short and long term factors in distinguishing trends from permanent changes? 
If prices are set by negotiation where is the price signalling mechanism? At present there are many buyers and sellers in the market. Therefore there are market signals. The only danger with the situation in which the Australian Wool Corporation bilaterally negotiates some sales is that if there is too much negotiation the auction system tends to fail. The difference with this situation is that Australia is the dominant wool seller in the world whereas with wheat we are a price taker. We have to set a price subject to some rational economic forces. Our wheat industry is a price taker whereas our wool industry is virtually a price setter. 
Against these thoughts on centralised marketing in general I wish to amplify my thoughts on some of the marketing innovations that have taken place in the immediate past. Firstly, no one really disagrees with the statement that the reserve price scheme has been an outstanding success in providing stability to the industry. However, and in emphasis of what I have been saying with respect to doubts I have on centralised marketing in general, it is now time to evaluate the gains and losses of the present scheme before proceeding with any of the three major proposals for modifying it. The Australian Wool Corporation maintains that there are hidden gains in the reserve price scheme. Although I may accept that, I would like more evidence placed before me. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics made a recent study on losses and gains and came up with different conclusions. Although this study was qualified by the assumptions used and the lack of information on recent estimates of the price elasticity of demand for wool, it showed that one of the effects of wool market intervention was that a decrease in price variability of 24 per cent had resulted in a revenue loss of $46m. The BAE made the point that the study- or more accurately the simulation it used- should be considered as providing indicative rather than definitive estimates of the effects of the Australian buffer stock/reserve price scheme. 
It is the wool growers who bear any losses or gains from stabilisation and they will need to decide whether the insurance premiums potentially paid for price stabilisation are warranted by the price risk cover purchased and any other benefits. The three modification proposals will need the closest scrutiny. I recall that 20 per cent , of wool growers receive only about 8 per cent of their incomes from wool. In a situation in which income equalisation deposit schemes operate there may be some who believe that the premium is too high. In other words they would rather get to the pure market mechanism. It should be remembered that the reserve price scheme does not and cannot stabilise growers' incomes; all it sets out to do is to smooth out the aberrations in price. In any case, more and more close research is needed. The Australian wool marketing system has already exhibited flexibility and adaptability in responding to changes in the market environment.- These changes have occurred gradually through a process of research, evaluation and steady adoption. This is the direction I want to see continued. 
In the time available I want to comment only by way of review or evaluation on the changes in the system over the past few years. Sale by sample and objective measurement was by far, and I guess still is, the most important catalyst in reform to selling and handling procedures in the wool industry. Sale by separation is a potential change flowing directly from sample selling, whilst sale by description is a further potential expansion of sale by sample. To date the major benefits of sale by sample and objective measurement have gone to growers and not to intermediaries. The size and distribution of future benefits need to be determined. It should be remembered that prior determination of monetary benefits is difficult. Should we go to total adoption or should we follow the usual pattern of sequential development in the market? Each grower has a different position, a different flock, and the cost of sale by sample and objective measurement might not always result in higher prices for him. 
In conclusion, as the AWC has clearly pointed out, the evaluation of potential benefits from substantial changes to current marketing procedures can be only partly achieved. If proposals of the type being suggested are proceeded with the evaluation has to be done on the basis of doing it and then assessing whether it has been successful. It is my view that because major changes such as those being suggested have an unknown probability of not being as successful as expected they represent action which would expose the wool marketing system unnecessarily to high risks. This judgment is reinforced by the belief that once the changes were introduced they would be difficult to reverse and by the view that the main objectives of the changes can be achieved by other means. 
-This debate was adjourned by the Opposition last night at the invitation of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  It was obvious at that stage in the debate that not only were Government speakers prepared wilfully to misrepresent the amending motion that we put before the House, but also that the Minister himself was confused, if not poorly briefed, and lacking in knowledge of the way the Bill would affect the company to which it applies. We hope today that with a bit more time on this matter the Minister can come back to us and perhaps answer some of the contentions that we have put by way of the amending motion. We have been concerned about this matter, and unless more evidence is produced we will persist with our amending motion. The erosive piece of information given to the House by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  which caused the Minister so much consternation was purely and simply some evidence given by  Mr Norman  Tinkler, the managing director of Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd, to the Industries Assistance Commission's longer term inquiry into 'Certain Engines and Rotary Cultivators'. This evidence was given on 7 March. I quote from the transcript of evidence before the IAC.  Mr Tinkler  stated: 
The bounty or subsidy of $40.00 per kilowatt on pedestrian tillers on the face of it appears generous, but the limitation of $60,000 per annum does nothing to help me effectively compete in the market place with a suitable range of machines and hardly allows for much increase in production ofthe present machine. 
He continued: 
The decision, therefore, does nothing for levels of employment or research and development, but makes one machine, the Bullfinch, profitable to continue in production, assuring the employment of about 10 people but losing the probability of substantial increased employment and giving indefinite encouragement to importers at the expense of Australian industry. 
I think it is incredible that a simple quote like that should raise so many doubts in the mind of the Minister, patricularly since it is almost certain that the only manufacturer of rotary cultivators in Australia, that is Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd, would have made its views known to the Government and to the Minister in other ways- in other words, by direct representations. I think it is unbelievable that such a minor piece of legislation should be marked by such confusion. The extract from the evidence I have given also lays to rest the wilful misrepresentation by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  that when the Opposition was moving the motion, the Opposition was supposed to be criticising the Government's moves to ensure more jobs. If I did unto the honourable member for Darling Downs what the honourable member for Darling Downs did unto the honourable member for Adelaide last night, I would now have to proceed in debate to accuse the honourable member of being an advocate of flower power, of being a greenie. The honourable member for Darling Downs wilfully misrepresented a speech by my colleague. He twisted the words of the honourable member for Adelaide, but I will not go into that. What the honourable member for Darling Downs tried to do was to divert the attention of the House from the point of our motion which related to a principle of government and public administration not necessarily the issue itself. Our comments were not being directed at the preservation of an industry or otherwise. The honourable member for Adelaide at page 1942 of  Hansard  of 8 May 1979 stated: 
I repeat, the Opposition does not deny to the Government the right to reject the advice of the IAC. Nor does it take issue on the ground of the moneys involved. 
The two points that the honourable member for Adelaide was making specifically in the motion that he moved were, firstly, that the Parliament should be informed when the Government rejects IAC or Temporary Assistance Authority advice, and should give reasons for so doing and, secondly, why did the Government decide on a bounty twice that recommended yet with the same upper limit. I cannot understand the reasons of the honourable member for Darling Downs in trying to misrepresent what we were saying. He quite obviously was not doing it for parish pump purposes. Werriwa is the sort of electorate where rotary hoes are used, not the Darling Downs. We were only pointing out that no reason for the decision had been given by the Minister. We believe that the Government should be open about such matters, and if it has good reasons for doing what it did, then it should give the reasons to the House. What we are trying to talk about are the principles of open government. 
In his speech yesterday my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide set out quite clearly why the Opposition is moving an amendment. This may not be a Bill of national importance, but what we were and are so concerned about are the reasons for the Government's actions in altering or rejecting a recommendation of the IAC and not giving its reasons. If the minister was inclined to give us only one page of departmental prose in his second reading speech, at least he could have given the reasons for doubling the rate of bounty, yet within the upper limit of the total subsidy. All that the Press release which came out from the Minister at the time said was that the level of the assistance recommended by the Commission might not be adequate. There was no explanation. But there is room for speculation. There is room for quite legitimate concern. Are we to assume that the formula was a device simply to present Howard Rotovator Pty Ltd with $60,000, or alternatively how much value will the $60,000 upper limit be to this firm? 
Is it the Government's independent judgment that the IAC, after its searching inquiry was wrong? Was the decision made purely and simply in terms of electoral or employment considerations? I do not suppose that we can expect to be told if it were the latter, but it would appear necessary for Howard's own sake that the reason for the level of protection be stated by the Government. None of my remarks are directed to Howard Rotovator Pty Ltd by way of criticism. This firm is in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and it is a very efficient firm. The criticism which the Opposition levels is directed at the Government and its continued avoidance of allowing decisions, hopefully based on economic and humane principles, to be subject to the openness of parliamentary scrutiny. It may well be that the Howard company has had such an excellent case to make to the Government that the Government has acted responsibly in the interests of the firm, or it may be that the Government wishes to cover up in some way its procrastinations in the past and its favourable treatment of Howards competitors by other measures. Or is it simply compensating Howards for the Government's own delay? I think it can be said that there is a little bit more politics in this than meets the eye. 
Howards used to have a factory at Moss Vale, which is in the seat of Macarthur, which I used to represent. 1 think the factory is still there, but I think it is in an almost closed-down condition. I am not sure of that. By and large this firm is lightly protected and export oriented. I believe it is a fact that duc to the Government's delay over the last two years in reaching a decision on assistance early in 1978 the company had to retrench workers at its plants in Sydney. Brisbane. Moss Vale and Mackay. 
In an article in the  National Times  for the week ending 9 December 1978,  Mr Peter  Robinson, an IAC commissioner, made some searching remarks on the way that the Howard company had been adversely affected by Government indecision and by erratic administration. This concerned by and large the motor for Howard rotary hoes. The motor is basically a  3!6  horsepower,  4  stroke engine. There is only one manufacturer of this kind of engine in Australia, and that is Norton Villiers Aust. Pty Ltd in Ballarat. This factory produces about  10,000  units a year in a market of about  160,000  units a year, Australia-wide. Most ofthe imports come from ANI-Perkins, the United States of America and Japan. A typical motor would be the Honda motor. In  1961, 1962  and  1966,  Villiers went to the Tariff Board. The duty that was allotted to that company was  42  ]A  per cent up to  1966; 65  percent up to  1973;  and from that point on it was  49  per cent. In May  1973  there was a recommendation of a slowdown to  35  per cent protection, and a further recommendation that it should be reduced immediately from the  49  per cent to  45  per cent. The government of the day rejected this recommendation saying that the level of protection should remain at  49  per cent until  1978,  and then it should be phased down to  45  per cent. 
In August  1978  it was announced that there would be a by-election for the Victorian Parliament in Ballarat, because of the retirement of  Mr Vance  Dickie. On  8  October, the Federal Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  announced that the Government had sent a reference to the IAC covering both the engines made by Norton Villiers and the cultivators by Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd. The Minister then explained that although small industrial engines had only recently been reviewed by the Commission, a further inquiry was necessary because of the difficulties facing this industry, and the regional employment problems in the Ballarat area where the industry was concentrated. The Government's somewhat one-eyed concern for employment effects in Ballarat was pointed out by witnesses who appeared before the inquiry. The fact is that small manufacturing operations using the kinds of engines produced by Norton Villiers are among the most common of rural industries. They make grain augers, spray equipment, pumping installations, painting devices and fruit growing equipment. They are established in almost every big country town and employ a lot of people. The high duties placed on engines of this type obviously represent a serious restriction on the possibility of expanding such decentralised manufacturing operations. The former honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Bert  Kelly, used to take such a keen interest in explaining to the House the effects of high tariff protection on products which are used for secondary manufacture in this country: the cost of the motors is highly protected, therefore the cost of further manufactured goods represents quite an impost on the rest of the country. 
It was pointed out that in many cases even such high duties did not lead to use of the Norton Villiers engines-only  10,000  Norton Villiers engines were used out of a total of  160,000  engines used in Australia. They were said to be made to designs at least  20  years old, and they employed cast iron technology.  Mr Peter  Robinson's article states that, in some cases, the Ballarat engines weighed up to  50  per cent more than imported engines cast from aluminium or light alloys. In addition, the messy haphazard way in which the Government has administered tariff policy in recent years has meant that tariffs favour the import of complete items of equipment using such engines rather than designing and making them in Australia. 
For example, the Australian Pump Manufacturers' Association pointed out that complete engine-powered pumps could be imported with a tariff of  26  per cent, although the tariff on the engines- the most costly item in the pump- was  49  per cent. A similar problem for many years had been affecting Howard Rotavator. Rotary cultivators with such engines can be imported duty free from New Zealand, or at a maximum duty of  22Vi  per cent from other sources. In June  1977  Howard's managing director, Norman Tinkler, to whom I referred earlier wrote to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. He warned that, unless entry of suitable engines could be obtained duty free under by-law, there would have to be serious retrenchment of employees. All through  1977  he battled with the Canberra bureaucracy, submitting as evidence to the IAC inquiry letters which he had received and which splendidly portrayed the bureaucraticmind. 
In April  1978  he wrote to the Minister for Industry and Commerce seeking a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority. He pointed out that import competition had forced a steady contraction of the company's activities. He pointed out that the company had lost from employment a total of over  1 12  people and that in that year it would have to sell the Brisbane factory. He said that his company had an effective tariff of  9  per cent and was exporting more than  20  per cent of its production. It had reached a 'crossroads' where even the present level of activity could not be sustained. All of this occurred in  1977.  In contrast to the immediate and favourable response that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs gave to the application for assistance by the highly protected Norton Villiers, this letter from the Howard company generated no response. 
On 5 July 1978  Mr Tinkler  wrote a letter to  Sir John  Crawford,  chairman  of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment. He enclosed a copy of the letter written to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, which stated in part: 
Despite the urgency of my firm's situation and the fact that I could not postpone indefinitely a management response to the decline in orders and production, I fear I am no nearer now to an outcome of my temporary assistance application than I was three months ago . . . 
He added: 
I do not wish to dispute the relevance of the official procedures by which requests for temporary assistance are resolved. I do, however, wish to argue as strongly as 1 am able the imperative that when official failure to deal expeditiously with such a request from an export industry causes it to release productive resources, that failure induces  avolidable  social and economic, as well as commercial costs. 
Of course, as  Mr Tinkler  pointed out in his letter to  Sir John  Crawford, the standard bureaucratic answer to complaints of delay is that proper procedures for establishing a case on an industry basis have to be followed. However, in this case Howard Rotavator was the only Australian manufacturer of its products, just as Norton Villiers was the only local maker in its field. The Howard products at present have an effective protective rate of 9 per cent, and they compete on export markets. According to one witness at the inquiry, the Norton Villiers engines attract a protection rate which in monetary terms amounts to just under $200 a unit for products that range in price from $85 to $ 1 1 5. On the basis of 150 employees involved at Norton Villiers, this is equivalent to $ 1 3,239 per employee. 
What I am trying to show is that two companies have been treated rather differently by government. One has approached government and received immediate attention to its request for protection. Howard Rotavator has also written to government, has made representations and given evidence before the IAC. It is only now, after some two years, that any sort of protection by way of bounty has been given to it by the Government. It is these matters that concern the Opposition so much. That is the reason why the Opposition has put forward the amendment moved on its behalf. Frankly, we believe that the Government needs to give more detailed reasons for its rejection of the IAC report. The IAC report recommended an upper limit of $60,000, but at $20 a unit. If the Government intends to double the amount of bounty to $40, the Opposition figures that it is quite sensible and reasonable to expect that the upper limit should also be doubled to $120,000. It feels that the Government needs to explain what economic rationale it adopts in treating one company in one way and another company in another when they are so clearly interdependent and linked. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Housing and Construction. I refer to the building industry sub-contracting system. Did the Minister say recently at Surfers Paradise that he would do all he could to maintain the system? Is he aware that this system, which is also known as body hire, has proliferated in recent years and involves organising firms supplying casual labour at low wage rates and ignoring award conditions? Is the Minister also aware that, as a result, labourers are engaged on a daily basis with no permanency, no workers compensation, no leave, no sick pay and no holiday provisions or requirements for notice of termination and that they are paid in cash with no tax payments being made for them, thus encouraging further tax avoidance? Is this the same system as the one to which the Minister refers and seeks to maintain? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he stated on 8 September 1974: 'As unemployment rises so too should unemployment benefits increase. This proposal rests on the principle that as it becomes harder to get work so too should the compensation for those out of work be increased. I believe that principle to be valid'. Does the Prime Minister still believe that principle to be valid? 
-The Supply Bills that the House is debating are to seek interim appropriations for ordinary annual services of the Government for the period 1 July 1979 to 30 November 1979. In his very short second reading speech on these Bills the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was very careful to point out that he in no way anticipated what amounts might be included for any particular service in the coming 1979-80 Budget. One can look at supply and appropriation Budgets in two very definite ways. One can look at them as an economic measure that somehow sets out to right the wrongs and ills in the economy and to direct the economy in certain ways. There is a lot that can be done economically within a Budget to influence an economy. Of course, at the same time a Budget once a year does not necessarily determine exactly what the shape of the economy will be for the ensuing year because there are many measures that a government can introduce through a year. 
The second way in which one can look at a Budget is that any government move with respect to funding relates to whether the government is keeping its political promises to the people- how it is performing in terms of what it went to the people with before it was elected to office and how it is meeting those responsibilities and promises, and the expectations of the people who elected it. I think we must say, in terms of the period of turmoil in Australia's recent political history and the Budgets that the present Government has introduced, that the Government has fallen down and must be criticised in the most trenchant terms, both economically and politically, for the Budgets and economic measures it has introduced. These Bills this afternoon are an anti-climax, particularly as honourable members are within a couple of hours of witnessing the turmoil of yet another twist in Government tactics on the economy. Honourable members will see which promise the Government will break tonight, in addition to the long list of lies, broken promises and shattered expectations that the Government is now trying glibly to sell to the Australian public. 
It is also understood that tonight Medibank, which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised to preserve, will be changed again and the whole question of health insurance will undergo yet another bout of surgery. The Prime Minister has shown himself to be the master of the disposable promise over the last three and a half years, the master of avoiding responsible, legitimate and important questions, and the master of the jettisonable principle. If one takes notice of what the Press says, the Government is now composed of the 'Fraser gang' the 'razor gang' and the 'desperates'. 
This afternoon I wish to speak particularly about the effect of the Government's policies on my electorate of Werriwa. I wish to speak about the effects of those broken promises on ordinary people. I wish to speak about the disillusionment of people with the government of the country. I will never forget the actions of those key people who were in opposition for the period 1972-75 but who now find themselves in ministerial positions. They are the people who would have said anything to bring down the Government, including using the deliberate strategy of the destruction of business confidence in this country. Those who thought- and still think- that they were born to rule thought it was all a bit of fun in those days. Therefore, it was only a logical step to deny supply to the Government of the day, to destabilise Australian policy and to smear a generation of young Australians as dole bludgers. 
These people thought that this was okay; it was okay to make promises that they knew they could not keep. 
These people thought it was okay to lie in advertisements about the Labor Government, and that it was okay and a bit of fun to blame the Whitlam Government- more particularly  Mr Whitlam  himself- for world inflation and say that all the problems in the Australian economy stemmed from  Mr Whitlam.  It does not matter where one looks- whether the promise was lower taxes, lower inflation, lower interest rates, the preservation of the value of pensions, wage indexation or the introduction and maintenance of tax and stock value indexation- all these things were to be done but have not been done. There were to be jobs for all who wanted them. Unemployment benefits were to be increased as unemployment went up, if it went up. The Public Service was not going to be slashed, Medibank was to be maintained and essential health, social welfare and education programs were to be preserved. So we go on through the promises. . 
Of course, there were specific promises in the 1975 election campaign that related to my then electorate of Macarthur. In October-November 1975 the Government shadow spokesman promised that the funding to the Macarthur growth centre would not cease. What has happened? It has ceased totally. There are now scores of people in hardship because the Government has no funds and is not prepared to provide any funds to people who thought in all honesty and good faith that they could sell their land, and made arrangements to do so. Of course, after 1975 there were another two years of broken promises, broken expectations, and the Government prevailed on the compliant GovernorGeneral to give it an extra three years. So in the 1977 election campaign there were more lies, more distortions and more promises were made that the Government knew it could not keep. To the credit of the Government the term 'dole bludging' and the campaign against the unemployed did not emerge then as a major tactical strategy.  Mr Whitlam  was trotted out as the bogy-man once more. It is now  Vh  years since the Governor-General acted on behalf of the establishment of the present Liberal Government in this country. I do not think the Government can blame for ever one man for all our ills. As 3Vi years have passed there is little sense now in harping back to the Whitlam Government. 
The most savage effects of the Government's policies have been on the unemployed. Even the figures have been twisted. We do not know what the true figures are. Seasonal figures are no longer supplied. We have three sets of figures which are designed to confuse. We do not know what the levels of hidden unemployment are. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  this week announced that a survey found there was 63,000 hidden unemployed. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic Research believes that there is something like 800,000 people unemployed in this country. The official figures are something like 436,000. We do not know what figure to believe. What I believe is that even if we can never get at the figures, a massive number of people are unemployed. There is no sense in fiddling with figures or raising these spectres of dole bludging, work tests or whatever. 
It is alarming that this whole idea of dole bludgers now permeates the back benches of the Liberal Party in this House. It is unfortunate- I almost find it unbelievable- that many Government back benchers believe that to attack the unemployed for unemployment is somehow a sensible and positive policy. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  says that the unemployment benefits are too high. The benefit for a married man is something like $51.45 a week. The Minister quite happily accepts his $62 a night travelling expenses when he is out of his home base. Yet he says that $51.45 is too high for a married man. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  says that no one under 25 years of age should be paid unemployment benefits. The Government has conducted various examinations of the whole structure of the Commonwealth Employment Service. Yet it ignores what the Myers and Norgard reports say on the work test. If anyone wants to see how the work test is applied he ought to come to my electorate. Something like 68 people are chasing every available job in that electorate. I cannot see the sense, quite frankly, in putting those 68 available people through a work test for that one job. Of course, that question does not arise because the work test, except in rare cases, is not applied. There is no sense in trying to put round pegs into round holes when we have those figures to deal with. 
My electorate is an electorate of young people and unfortunately it is now becoming a welfare electorate. There is no sense haranguing the unemployed in that electorate. Over 50 per cent of the unemployed are young people under 21 years of age. Why harangue just a handful of people? I quote from a letter by David Scott, the Executive Director of the Brotherhood of St Lawrence: 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs observes that there is some suspicion in the community that ' bludging' is rampant. Yet, it is exactly the sort of public statements  Mr Viner  has made, and the gratuitous inquiry into the 'worktest' that is to follow which reinforces community myths and prejudices about the integrity of the unemployed. 
Social Security figures show that annual prosecutions for dole' offences have never amounted to more than half of one per cent of all claimants. Despite erratic and inadequate notification of rights to claimants, coupled with an appeals body that lacks independence and may have its decisions reversed by the Director-General of Social Security, more than 50 per cent of those unemployment beneficiaries who appeal against termination of benefit are found to have been unjustly penalised. lt is difficult to see how the Government could make eligibility criteria for unemployment benefit more strict than is already the case. On two earlier occasions it revamped the relevant policy guidelines and instituted new stringency measures to limit eligibility for unemployment benefit. Later, it also commissioned the Myers Report into the administration of unemployment benefit. But, as Myers notes, 'further tightening (of the work test) is not really practicable in the absence of vacancies against which to test people.' Currently, there are 483,5 16 unemployed registrants as against 24,929 vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service, so what is the value of haranguing a handful of malingerers to the factory gate when there are tens of thousands desperate for work and a proper income? 
Where are the government policies to introduce properly paid job creation schemes, to raise unemployment benefit levels above the austere poverty line, to index pensions and benefits quarterly, to expand significantly labor research and planning so as to help avert the growing crisis of unemployment? 
Whether by design or default, the Government has again diverted attention from the serious problem of unemployment on to the emotional issue of the 'genuineness' of worker motivation. But at a time when nearly half a million Australians are languishing out of work on impoverishing incomes it is for the Government to demonstrate its genuine concern for them through the initiation of policies that will alleviate rather than aggravate their plight. 
That sums up the views of the Labor Opposition in this House as nothing else does. We are the ones in the electorates where unemployment is the highest. The figures show a ratio of some 24,000 vacancies for some 483,000 people. It is high in electorates represented by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and myself. We are the ones who have to deal day to day with these problems. We are the ones who have to explain things to people who come to our offices confused, wanting to know why the Government is keeping up this attack on socalled dole bludgers. They cannot get jobs. In my electorate there are people who have had five weeks work in the last year, and that is over three jobs. They work for a week, they get put off and they find it takes six weeks to get another job. So why are they going to accept casual jobs for a week? There are other people who get jobs for three or four months and when they come to the end of the year they find they have to pay tax, not just on the pay-as-you-earn amount of income that they received, but on the whole lot. They have to include the unemployment benefit. So in a subsequent period they have to pay back taxation liability out of the miserly amount they receive for unemployment benefit. I could go through case after case of young people trying to better themselves. 
One man who came to my office the other day had left school with the Higher School Certificate in December 1977 and had a job for two weeks. He then lost it. He is an Italian boy. He had some problems filling out the unemployment benefit form and he did not answer one question, so he did not get any unemployment benefit until April or May. He then did three weeks work before he was put off again. Again he did not fill the form out. No one told him he had filled the form out wrongly, so he did not get the unemployment benefit until August or September. Eventually he got another job. Now he is doing a spray painting and panel beating course at the Liverpool Technical College. He is not eligible for unemployment benefit and he is not even eligible for the $20 a week student allowance because he is not classified as a school leaver. I can give many other instances of that. 
Let us look at the statistics of an electorate like Werriwa. Werriwa has the highest number of A class widow pensioners in New South Wales. Classes B and C are well above average. It has the third highest number of female supporting parents and the highest number of male supporting parents in New South Wales. It is the fourth highest with respect to the number of people on unemployment benefits. It is the second highest electorate in New South Wales with respect to people receiving family allowance. That simply reflects that Werriwa is an electorate of very young people. Let us look at the figures. These are the figures that reflect the disillusionment with the promise and the statements of the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser: We will give jobs to all those that need them'. For only three months since December 1975 has the rate of unemployment in the Liverpool Commonwealth Employment Service district not increased on the rate for the corresponding month the previous year. The absolute level has doubled to something like 6,000 unemployed in that CES district. In Campbelltown the other major Commonwealth Employment Service district in my electorate the unemployment figure has doubled also. In only two or three months where has the unemployment figure not been higher- than for the corresponding month the previous year. In other words, for August, 
January, or whatever month one likes to nominate, the current year figure is far higher than the figure a year before. 
It is fair enough to say that we have to get the economy right; we have to fight inflation first. I would not expect that anyone would understand the Government's policies in these areas, but it is quite another thing to keep unemployment benefits of $36 a week for young people. It is yet another thing to engage in an attack upon these young people and to perpetuate this nonsense about dole bludgers. It is quite agonising for some of these people to hear what the Government is saying about them when they are doing everything possible to explain and rectify their situation. We have all sorts of Mickey Mouse schemes. We have the Community Youth Support Scheme which gives some companionship- I guess that is about all- to a handful of people and provides a few grotty little houses around the electorate. Some community youth support schemes do an excellent job due to the people supervising them. Others do very little. I am not here to criticise the schemes one way or another, but my objection to them is that they may somehow convince the community that the Government is doing something about unemployment when we all know that that is absolute nonsense. 
In December last year the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  announced another two little schemes that would do something about unemployment. One was to take some 1,000 people into the Public Service. 1 understand that has been implemented. The other was some crazy scheme whereby service clubs would on community type projects, induce young people to work for nothing other than the unemployment benefit. That did not get off the ground. The reasons why it did not get off the ground are quite self-evident. I would like to know how that sort of scheme would work in an electorate like Werriwa. I wonder how the spread of service clubs or community organisations in the area could properly administrate and implement such an idea. There is one Lions Club in all of Green Valley. How the heck will 19 or 20 members of that Lions Club administrate a scheme involving 1,500 young people? There are two or three Rotary Clubs in all of the Werriwa electorate. How will they handle the problem with something like 8,000 unemployed in the electorate? 
This House must recognise that the problems of the economy are large and that no government has all the answers. I think it is fair enough for any government to put the fight against inflation first and seriously and honestly to bring down Budgets that it hopes will do something about the economy and eventually in the long run enable the unemployed to get jobs. I hope that is this Government's ambition. But for God's sake in the interim the Government should not keep up this constant smear on people out of work and label them forever as dole bludgers. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bills although we express serious concern about the Government's actions particularly in respect to the way that these Bills came about, the way that the Government acted with regard to the wheat industry and the Australian Wheat Board and the consequent worry that that caused to many wheat growers. I think we need to reflect a little on tonight's statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I think it is pretty fair to say that that statement is indicative of the economic turmoil in which the Government is. Attempts to blame the past Labor Government for every economic ill are no longer credible. Attempts to talk the economy into a desirable shape obviously do not work any more. Attempts to blind the public to the reality of the economic bind we are in just are not working. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says that interest rates will drop by 2 per cent and they do not because they cannot, the public perceives these things. 
The Bills with which we are dealing reflect, in effect, some of the desire by the Government for economic events to happen when quite clearly they cannot. Getting back to the statement of tonight, again there is a lot of room for debate. I well remember the debate in 1973-74 when the Labor Government implemented some of these measures, particularly the Livestock Slaughter Levy Bill. At that time the then Opposition, the present Government, raised the most trenchant criticisms and objections to what we were doing. But the fact is that the key economic parameters no longer respond to the wistful jawboning of the Prime Minister or the Treasurer. The Bills before the House are directly related to the Government's inability to contain the growth in the money supply within the Government's target set some eight or nine months ago, that is, at the time of the last Budget. The Bills relate back to about the January/February/March period of this year. Even in October/November last year, when the 1978-79 Budget introduced in August was passed by this Parliament, the money supply was quite obviously out of kilter. What we have here is a little bit of ad hockery that it might not have been possible to avoid, but which certainly could have been acted upon sooner, but for the Government's own past rhetoric. It certainly could have been handled in a less messy fashion. 
The Labor Party's spokesman on primary industry,  Senator Peter  Walsh, first alerted the nation to the fact that in the early part of this year the Australian Wheat Board had suspended first advance payments to growers.  His  comments were either pooh-poohed or ignored by the Press, various rural observers, the Government and the Australian Wheat Board. For two months earlier this year the Government failed to respond to statements and questions on the matter. Yet it was clear by December last year that we were headed for a record wheat harvest and that the usual funding arrangements- a limit of some $800m in the account in the Reserve 
Bank- would not meet the first advance payment that had been set. In early November last year the wheat harvest was under-estimated by about 6 million tonnes. Consequently, some $400m more than the amount estimated was needed to fund the wheatgrowers' first advance. In December the Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication on trends forecast wheat production at 17.5 million tonnes. But the Government dithered until March before taking action. Deliveries finally amounted to about 18 million tonnes. It is interesting to note that the production is about one million tonnes more than deliveries. 
As I have said, by December of last year it was clear that we were headed for a record wheat harvest. But yet again the Government would neither confirm nor deny what it was going to do even though it knew that it had clear powers to direct the Australian Wheat Board to raise funds outside the regular Reserve Bank arrangements. Perhaps it was reticent because of its guilt about its statements when in Opposition. I refer in particular to the time when  Senator Wriedt,  as Minister for Agriculture, issued a directive to the Australian Wheat Board under the terms of section 1 8 ( 1 ) of the relevant Act. In October 1973,  Senator Wriedt,  as Minister for Agriculture, directed the Australian Wheat Board to stand by the three-year agreement it had made in 1971 to sell wheat on terms to Egypt. Of course, this action evoked a cacophony of abuse. The present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said at that time: 
It will be quite intolerable if the Wheat Board's commercial judgment is to be overridden by the Government's political desires . . . The Wheat Industry Stabilization Act should be amended to prevent the Federal Government from dictating policy to the Wheat Board. 
The then Opposition spokesman on primary industry, the present Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  described the instruction as an abuse of power, an example of the then Government's authoritarian iron fist which opened the danger of governments appointing only 'yes men' to marketing boards. Where are the voices of dissent now? At that time a lot of people had to swallow their pride, but they did not issue some of the ridiculous statements which greeted us in 1973. For example, the present Australian Wheat Board  Chairman, Sir Leslie  Price, described the directive of  Senator Wriedt  as 'the first step to nationalising the industry' which would place the wheat stabilisation plan in jeopardy. Perhaps it was those sorts of statements by the then Opposition, the present Government, that makes the Government a bit reticent in asking the Australian Wheat Board to do what it clearly wanted it to do. 
After the Board ran out of money and suspended payments to growers in January this year, Cabinet instructed the Reserve Bank to advance the Board sufficient funds. Almost immediately it put pressure on the Board to transfer the Reserve Bank debt to the trading banks. Prior to a meeting with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Board decided not to oblige the Government. But the Minister managed to make the Board see the wisdom of the Government's desires. He talked to the Board about printing money, inflation and so on. The Board agreed voluntarily to borrow $155m. The Board members, who had been pushed over rather easily I should think, evidently got a roasting from their State affiliates. Consequently, when the Government requested the Board to transfer another $300m, the Board refused. It was not going to be the scapegoat for the Government's or the Prime Minister's interest rate follies. It has to be understood that it was the Government- the Prime Minister, the Treasurer or whomever in the Government one may wish to apportion blame to- not the Australian Wheat Board that was responsible for losing control of the money supply. 
I think that the problem goes back to the Prime Minister's irresponsible guarantee in 1977 that interest rates would fall by 2 per cent. Even more irresponsibly, in November 1978 he decreed that the bond rate would come down, at a time when all the market forces were pushing it up. The money market has been in turmoil ever since. On 27 April this year the Board announced that the Government would have to instruct it formally to transfer another $300m. As the Minister said, under section 18 ( 1 ) of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act, the Board could do this. The Board's decision was proper. The proper governmental response would have been to issue the instruction, but as I have said, perhaps the Government was reticent because of its former rhetoric. On 28 April, the Treasurer said that the Board would have to comply. But the Minister for Primary Industry, who alone had the power to instruct the Board, did nothing. He dodged the issue by saying that the Reserve Bank was discussing the matter with the Board. In the absence of any other knowledge it appears that more accurately the Minister was discussing it with the  Chairman  of the Board. On 2 May in answer to a question in Parliament, the Treasurer admitted that the Reserve Bank could not instruct the Board and the Minister for Primary Industry admitted that he had not instructed the Board. In other words, a stalemate existed. 
In my view, the Minister for Primary Industry was punting on the Board caving in and complying with government policy without being formally instructed to do so. The Minister's judgment about the Board's weakness was sound. On 3 May, the Treasurer stated that the Board had agreed to the Reserve Bank's request. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Sir Leslie  Price, made a similar statement. It appeared to many outside observers that the  Chairman,  in isolation, had decided to oblige the Minister who had appointed him and the party which had knighted him and present the Board with a fait accompli. As I understand it, no Board meeting was held but evidently Board members were canvassed and the majority agreed to reverse the decision made at a formal meeting held one week earlier. I think the circumstances of the Board's action are a little extraordinary, but I do not think we should make too much of it. The fact that sensible decisions were not taken by government at the right time and the fact that the Government delayed and dithered represented a messy piece of government. 
In the week after the Board's decision to go along with the Government, the Minister for Primary Industry answered a question in Parliament which further damaged the Government's credibility. On 8 May he admitted that in effect the Board had suspended first advance payments between 23 January and 2 February. This pulled the rug from under the Board's General Manager who had gone to great lengths to give the opposite impression. Indeed, he had explicitly denied to at least one prominent financial journalist that payments had been suspended. Part of the cover-up strategy was a story put out on the bush grapevine that the cause of any apparent delays was computer breakdown. I think that this was rather a messy sort of an excuse. As I said, I think the Government caused it. We would not like to see it happen again. If again we have a bumper harvest, the Government has constraints in the money supply, the Reserve Bank arrangements are not sufficient and it is known for weeks if not months that there will be a problem, the Government, the Wheat Board, the wheat growers, the Reserve Bank and the Treasury should be able to get together without going through this messy sort of process. Not all the facts are known about this matter. I am reticent to make heavier statements about it. We would not like to see this happen again. Many of us would dearly like to know what truly happened. 
The Government has introduced two Bills to accommodate what has transpired. It will subsidise the amount involved in the Wheat Board's having to borrow on the open market. The Wheat Industry Stabilization (Reimbursement of Borrowing Costs) Bill authorises a Commonwealth subsidy for the higher interest rates which the Wheat Board will have to pay for that portion of its overdraft transferred from the Reserve Bank to private noteholders. The second Bill, the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill simply amends the parent Act to accommodate the change. The Minister for Primary Industry denies the existence of a new subsidy. The Opposition concedes that in a sense he is correct. The Wheat Board finance has always been subsidised, to a degree, with Reserve Bank credit below commercial rates. This Bill makes obvious what has always applied. The Bill is a product of the Government's decision to lean on the Wheat Board to issue commercial Bills in order to rein in the money supply. 
These Bills give the House a chance to debate the next five-year wheat plan which will be the seventh plan. Given the Industries Assistance Commission's report on wheat stabilisation in the next wheat plan, to some extent the debate on its findings has been varied. There has not been much debate on the report, particularly with respect to the vexed question of domestic marketing. The IAC plugged for free internal trading. The view which the Bureau of Agricultural Economics put before the IAC was in support of the Commission's findings. The Bureau, in putting forward its ideas on the next wheat plan, suggested that in addition to free internal trading there should be a minimum delivery price system for all wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. This minimum delivery price was to be set as a percentage as high as possible of the expected pool realisation. One of the important functions of the minimum delivery price was to set a floor price and prices generally for private trading in wheat on the domestic market. Further research and study carried out in preparing this report on the grain marketing system to the AGRO conference did not result in a revision of the Bureau 's view regarding the domestic market. 
The role of the Australian Wheat Board as the sole trader in marketing wheat destined for use in feeding livestock in Australia is highly questionable, particularly if a minimum delivery price system is introduced. In years when production levels are high, enforcing delivery of feed wheat to the bulk handling system is costly and inefficient. Even the monitoring of the prices at which all sales are made is of doubtful value to the industry. This is a case that can and has been argued by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It has also been argued by the Industries Assistance Commission and various individuals. By and large, I think that the Opposition would still support the veiw that the more traditional system which we are used to and which we understand should prevail. The views of the IAC and the BAE are purely economic. The point that I am making is that there should have been a lot more debate in the community. Because  Mr Colin  Mann, the  President  of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation, spoke to a seminar in Orange recently, we now know to a large degree the shape and form of the next five-year plan. It is not yet certain but I think we can say that the following proposals have been clearly formulated and agreed to by the industry, the Wheat Board and the Government. The Australian Wheat Board is to be the sole authority for the export marketing of wheat, flour and certain wheaten products. I do not think that anyone disagrees with this. But the Australian Wheat Board is also to have sole control of sales of wheat on the domestic market. 
It becomes a little academic to talk about the IAC view, the BAE view and the views of certain individuals but I think that there should be a lot more debate. No doubt when the final plan is introduced into this House, that will be the time for the debate to occur. A guaranteed minimum delivery price will be introduced to take the place of the present first advance. The GMDP is to be set at 95 per cent of the average of the past, present and anticipated future pool return. The Commonwealth will guarantee growers this net pool return. From the GMDP, growers will have deducted their individual rail freight, bulk handling costs, refinance fund tax and wheat reserve levy. Any deficiency between the final net pool return and the GMDP will be met by the Commonwealth when the pool is finalised. I do not think that I need to go into any more detail about what  Mr Mann  said to that conference except to point out that, if the GMDP is agreed to, it will have a propensity in a high crop year to run us into exactly the same trouble which the Government got into this time. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills, but it hopes that the messy procedure which occurred, the doubts in growers' minds and the allegations of a cover-up do not occur again. 
Did the Prime Minister last Friday endorse the admission by the Treasurer the previous night that inflation might not improve over the next 12 months? Does the Prime Minister also accept the Treasurer's forecast that unemployment next January and February will be the same as this year's record of 493,000 or maybe a little higher? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he stated on 24 March 1 976: 
On my own visits overseas, commercial aircraft will be used as far as possible. The argument that Qantas cannot provide adequate security is a specious argument, and false. 
If the Prime Minister did say that, why has the Government already spent $ 15m of taxpayers' funds to buy two 707 jetliners for the Prime Minister's travels abroad? 
-In the time available to me I wish to direct the attention of the chamber to one of the many penny-pinching Budget savings perpetrated by the present Government in the 1978-79 Budget. I am referring to the taxing of Commonwealth postgraduate awards. The award is presently a meagre $4,200 per annum. An estimated saving of a mere $232,303 has brought considerable hardship and frustration to a small but highly significant group of post-graduate research scholars, whose work by no small measure helps to advance the frontiers of knowledge that ultimately benefit the whole community. Surely there must be some members of the Government benches who appreciate the logic of this argument. Can Australia afford to frustrate and potentially waste its most highly trained researchers? Even the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  who must bear some responsibility for the present situation, seems to recognise the value of research. In reply to a question on 3 April this year he stated: 
The future development of this country, including its capacity to trade and the living standards of its people, must depend upon a properly based program of research and development. 
But what does he appear to be doing to protect the interests of those engaged in such research? Nothing! In reality, despite the fact that research scholars perform a significant role in university research, their present position is such that they are classified as 'rather poor', according to the Henderson poverty line criteria. In terms of normal conditions of employees, they have no sick leave, no annual leave loading, no consumer price index adjustment, no superannuation and no workers compensation. Yet the unfeeling present Government claims that the allowances are 'essentially of an income nature and it is appropriate that they should be taxed like any other income'. 
Let me compare the net post-graduate award to the minimum wage and the taxable postgraduate award with the average male earnings over the last decade. Taking the 1 979 figures, the situation is deplorable. The net post-graduate award is now $4,097 and the minimum wage is $7,962. The taxable post-graduate award is $4,200 and average male earnings at present are supposed to be $11,960. Perhaps a more comparable figure can be obtained by examining apprentices in the fourth year of training. For example, a fourth year apprentice carpenter earns $10,199 per annum before tax. In the Navy, in his fourth year of training an apprentice earns $7,435, and an apprentice engineer earns $8,840. 
The Council of Australian Post-Graduate Associations has requested that the research scholar's work role be subjected to a fundamental assessment by an independent tribunal in order to establish appropriate levels of award allowances. Also, interim increases in award allowances should be made as soon as possible at least to maintain the position relative to the poverty level which existed in 1977. Further, course work award allowances should be increased to the same levels as those for research awards. The myopic vision of this penny-pinching government will sacrifice the long-term positive benefits for the whole community of research in higher education institutions. Research scholars make a major contribution to research in all three categories- basic research, applied research and experimental research- but it is in basic research that their contribution is most significant. While the value is less obvious in the short term, the 
Australian Science and Technology Council believes that our national status and world standing depends on fundamental basic research. Why will the Government not listen? Why does it persecute this small group of people? Four years of cost cutting in universities means that our best researchers do not have the resources to do their jobs properly. Work which is vital to Australia's self-reliance is neglected because there is not enough money, and all this for a saving of a mere $232,300. The Government has pushed research scholars close to the Henderson poverty line, as I have said. Certainly the Williams report on education, training and employment acknowledges the flaws in the Government's policy. It states: 
If research funds are not adequate Australia will lose to overseas universities a proportion of its ablest young graduates and become more dependent on overseas developments in science and technology. 
We should concentrate on becoming leaders, not followers. Why cannot the Government recognise this? If the Government is so short of funds, perhaps the Prime Minister might be gracious enough to curtail some of his projected 1979-80 overseas escapades in Freebee I. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is very disappointing when the  Chairman  of the Government's Rural Committee can spend only about 14 minutes speaking on this most important industry, the beef industry. We on this side of the House have no problem whatsoever in addressing ourselves to the problems of this great industry. To speak for only 14 minutes, I think, rather insults the industry. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Angas is known as a bit of a disappointment to Roseworthy College as a graduate. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I do apologise for that, but I have been informed that some of the best graduates of Roseworthy College are on our side of the House. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  has set out the Opposition's view on this set of Bills. He has also told the House at length what the Industries Assistance Commission report, which was brought down on 10 April 1975, had to say about the question of brucellosis and tuberculosis. What we have largely received from the Government side on this matter is a story about the new-found wealth of the rural sector, how the economy of the rural sector is booming again so rural producers can afford to pay. Really what Government members were saying was that this legislation was part of a package and politically the rural industry had to take its little bit of pain. 
We are expressing opposition to these Bills not because of the relative and recent affluence of the rural industry, but because these measures refer to a health matter. They refer to the eradication of disease in the cattle industry, disease communicable to human beings. We feel that in those circumstances there is a strong reason to point to the fact that this legislation has wider ramifications than just being the imposition on the industry of an economic measure. If we were as intellectually dishonest as members on the other side of the House were when in Opposition, we would say that these Bills reflected anti-rural bias because there is a 200 per cent increase in the levy. There is an attack on calves and bobby calves which have been included in the levy for the first time. This increase is designed to raise $23.26m in 1979-80. Talking about the economics of the industry for a moment, I guess what a lot of fellows in the bush are worried about is the fact that the moment an industry improves, the Government- it does not matter which Government- quickly gets stuck into it. The beef industry has picked up over the last four or five months. The moment there is a turnaround after about four or five years of desperate circumstances and negative income throughout the industry, a levy is put on, in this case a 200 per cent increase, which for the first time includes calves and bobby calves. But if there is another downturn in the industry with the price of little calves going down to about 50c or a dollar, there will be no way that producers will be able to afford to pay the levy. Therefore calves will be killed on the spot or they will disappear. Producers simply will not be able to afford to pay these charges. We agree that in those circumstances the Government would have to backtrack quickly on the policy announced in these Bills. 
We oppose this legislation mainly on the grounds of inequity. There is a strong argument this way, and the Industries Assistance Commission pointed that out. I will go on to that in a moment. However, why should States which have little incidence of these diseases, tuberculosis and brucellosis, pay? Even within States there are great regional inequities. Some parts of States are virtually disease-free and there are other parts where the percentage of animals affected is relatively high compared with other parts. There is an argument in terms of overall social benefit to the community as a whole. As I said, brucellosis is a health risk to humans. Furthermore, the tax is high- a 200 per cent hike. The Labor Government introduced measures to step up the eradication campaign and it seems to me to be silly at this stage to be trying to milk the industry, trying to get a little more money out of it just because a package is brought in to gain more revenue and just because the industry's fortunes have not been too bad for four or five months. 
Looking at the history of the financial arrangements, we find that in 1969 the Australian Agricultural Council agreed on a basis of financial contributions by Australian and State governments to the foreshadowed national brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. The Australian Government agreed at that time for the triennum commencing 1969-70 to match the combined expenditure ofthe State governments, to meet all expenditure in excess of $50,000 for eradication in Tasmania and to meet all costs in the Northern Territory. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was boring my audience rigid with an exposition on the history of the brucellosis and tuberculosis scheme. I was also pointing out the wicked anti-rural bias of this Government and saying that it has now discovered a means of taxing bobby calves, and all that flows from that. 
Yes, it is dreadful. I was pointing out the way this scheme was started in 1969, basically by the Australian Agricultural Council. The State Governments then agreed to maintain their contributions at the 1968-69 levels and also to increase them if possible. The Animal Health Committee of the Australian Agricultural Council was to administer the campaign and to allocate the Australian Government contribution between States. For 1972-73, the first year of the next triennium, the principle of equal contributions by the Australian and State Governments was changed. In that year, the Australian Government agreed to make available $3.6m and the States a total of $2.1m. The States indicated it was likely that they would increase their contribution by 10 per cent for 1973-74 and a further 10 per cent for 1974-75. Projections of finance to be provided for future years anticipated further movement away from the equal contribution principle. 
In the Budget of 1973, the Australian Government introduced a levy of 0.6c per lb on all beef and veal exports to recoup the Australian Government's share of finance provided for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis from 1973-74. It is also proposed to have a cognate debate on the next group of Bills and I guess they will have more to say about the levy. It was not intended that the Government would recoup its contribution for tuberculosis slaughter compensation. Apart from that, the levy was intended to recover all of the Australian Government's contribution over the 3 years from 1973-74. Because of the sharp decline in exports of meat from Australia the levy did not fully recover this expenditure. 
In general, with the additional finance available from 1970, new provisions designed to afford a greater degree of control of brucellosis were introduced. Surveys were undertaken to determine the regional prevalence of brucellosis and areas were classified according to the extent of infection. Where prevalence was found to be relatively high, a control area was declared and compulsory vaccination of all female calves was introduced. In Victoria the whole of the State was declared a control area even though prevalence was generally low in all areas. In this case, compulsory vaccination was considered the best and least expensive method of holding the prevalence at low levels until sufficient finance and facilities were available to implement a program of test and slaughter. In Western Australia, by contrast, compulsory vaccination was considered inappropriate for areas of low infection, and in such areas vaccination with the serum 45/20 was carried out only in herds known to be infected. Tasmania was virtually free of brucellosis by the end of 1973 and that is why we are raising one of our objections. If a State is free, why should it pay the levy? 
Western Australia and part of the Northern Territory have proceeded beyond vaccination to the test and slaughter stage. New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia indicated in 1975 that the prevalence of brucellosis in some areas of their States was low enough to begin a test and slaughter program. All States, except New South Wales and the Northern Territory, have acted to protect brucellosis free areas. The legislation differs slightly between States but usually requires that a health certificate be furnished with introduced cattle and that there be negative reaction to a diagnostic test. Similar restrictions apply to intra-state cattle movements to free areas except in New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia. Effective administration of these controls by the State Departments of Agriculture is essential to prevent the spread of the disease, especially in areas where brucellosis has been eradicated as cattle in these areas become highly susceptible to infection. 
The success of cattle movement controls in isolating the disease in known areas of infection depends on the quality of the test on which the restrictions are based. Where movements of cattle into disease free areas are authorised on the basis of a test which may yield a false negative, this inadvertently increases the risk of infection. This danger is illustrated by a Tasmanian example. In May 1973, infection was found in an area of Tasmania where there had been no infection for 14 years. The Tasmanian Department of Agriculture stated that it believed infection was introduced in a cow from Victoria which had been tested in Quarantine on several occasions without showing a reaction. 
The State Departments of Agriculture in Tasmania and Western Australia have shown that abattoir monitoring is an efficient method of surveillance once the prevalence in an area has been reduced. Under such a scheme, all cattle to be slaughtered carry a tail or back tag to identify the property of origin. Similar schemes currently operate in the Northern Territory and in all States except Queensland where the property of origin of diseased cattle is identified by cattle brands. 
A feature of the test and slaughter program in Western Australia is a complementary scheme of certification and accreditation of herds free of brucellosis. This ensures a supply of registered disease free herds from which stock replacements may be obtained. The Western Australia Department of Agriculture says that the scheme provides quite an incentive for registered disease free herds, which were previously infected, to maintain precautions against reinfection. Another incentive for farmers in Western Australia to comply with the eradication program is the withholding of compensation unless there is producer co-operation in the program. 
There are wide regional differences, as I have already mentioned, within States except for Tasmania. Again we feel we need to raise some objection because of the equity argument. For example, it was stated in 1975 that in the Western Division of New South Wales the prevalence of brucellosis was well below one per cent while in the Moree watercourse area it was 7 per cent. In New South Wales the average prevalence level is about 2 per cent and in the Australian Capital Territory it is even lower. However, progress towards eradication in the Australian Capital Territory is related to the progress in New South Wales because of unrestricted cattle movement between the two areas. The Victorian Department of Agriculture indicated that the prevalence in that State was somewhere in the range of nil to 3 per cent. In South Australia the prevalence ranges from 0.4 per cent in some beef areas to 3 per cent in some dairy areas. In about 1975-76 the State average was about 1 .8 per cent. 
I am quoting from parts of the Industries Assistance Commission report. In 1975 no comprehensive information on brucellosis prevalence in Western Australia or Queensland was available, although it was indicated that in Western Australia it was thought the prevalence was generally low. In Queensland it was thought that the prevalence of brucellosis was greater than 2 per cent along the eastern coast and in the far western areas but in all other areas of the State the prevalence was below 2 per cent. Summing up, it seems we are getting on top of this disease in all those States. 
I would like to raise the problem of the taxation formula. Here again, in these Bills we have a beef export charge. It is now on a per head basis but before it was on a per pound basis. I believe it would be better to have an ad valorem charge related to the value of the beast. I regard the export charge not being collected on an ad valorem basis as being a disadvantage. Because the charge is specific the proportionate burden placed on producers increases during periods of low beef prices and reduces during periods of high prices. Consequently, as a proportion of the price, the charge increases during periods when the producer can afford it least and, as price variations are closely associated with income variations from beef production, the charge contributes in a way to the instability of producer incomes. 
I believe that an ad valorem tax would be preferable. I accept that there are administrative problems associated with it. Ad valorem taxes are better attuned to capacity to pay and hence are more equitable between producers at a specific time- that is, between those who sell high quality, high price beef and those who sell low quality, low price beef- and more equitable between one period and another; that is, between periods of high prices and the periods of low prices. Ad valorem taxes are more equitable also in that they probably better reflect the levels of benefits received, which are more closely related to the value of export sales than to the weight of meat exported. Finally, and still quoting largely from the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, it did comment on the incidence of taxation, quite apart from its preference for ad valorem taxation. I also prefer ad valorem. It said that the incidence on the dairy and beef industries at that rime was quite different. We can at least say that this Bill does pick up that point and does tax the beef sector. 
As I said at the outset, we have some objections to this legislation but we will not put it to a division. I hope that I have explained the reason to the House. Basically it gets back to the matter of equity- the fact that there are inequities as between the States and regional differences in the prevalence of this disease within the States. It seems to me that it is very important to the industry overall, and the export sector in particular, that we finally get on top of these diseases. The Government should not be seen by the rural community as trying to avoid its responsibility in this area. As I also said at the outset, there is also the question of brucellosis being transmittable to human beings. I think there is a logical, sensible argument in terms of taxation, equity and social justice, if I can put it that way, for the Government taking up a fair share of its burden and not trying to pass it on to the industry just because the industry is now going through a period of relative affluence. It is for these reasons that we believe that the Government should look at this matter again. 
If the beef cycle- if I can call it that in terms of the high prices at present- goes into a downturn as suddenly as we have seen it come into an upturn, I think the Government will have to think very quickly about the level of taxation it is imposing on the industry. The industry has picked up only in the last four or five months. I do not think we will have the sustainable supply of beef that we have had in the past because the industry has had the stuffing knocked out of it over the last four or five years. For those reasons and the reasons put forward by my colleague the honourable member for Parramatta, who pointed out that there were quite a few recommendations in the Industries Assistance Commission's report that the Government has not taken up and that the IAC had put forward very strong arguments for the fact that the Government should be involved, we raise some doubts about these Bills. 
If the Opposition were as intellectually dishonest as were the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the National Country Party and the Liberal Party when in opposition, we would be thumping the table, screaming, ranting and roaring about these Bills and accusing the Government of having an in-built, anti-rural bias. When the Labor Government introduced its Meat Export Charge Bill in 1973- at that time the situation was similar to the present one; beef prices were going through the roof, the export sector had picked up and the net income in the farm sector had risen by $756m to over $ 1,800m- it was accused of anti-rural bias by the Minister for Primary Industry who was then in Opposition. I wish to read from a speech which was made at that time by the present Minister for Primary Industry. 1 shall refer in particular to a speech he made on 18 September 1973 when he was in opposition. He said: 
It is a Bill which the Opposition dislikes. It dislikes it because of the Bill's philosophical foundation and practical shortcomings. The Bill has been drafted with three objects in mind: Firstly, that the meat export industry should pay for export inspection and disease eradication charges when no other export industry pays for such charges. Secondly, that the imposition of a charge on meat for export will divert supplies to the domestic market. Thirdly, that because the industry is affluent at present it should be subjected to a supplementary tax- a tax on profitability. All three points are invalid. The philosophical foundation of the Bill is another reflection of the anti-rural bias of this Government. 
That was said by the honourable member for New England, the present Minister for Primary Industry, when the Labor Government introduced a Bill- a levy measure- at a time when the situation in the beef industry was similar to the present one. These Bills which are being debated cognately not only impose a tax on the beef industry but also for the first time impose taxes on the grain exports and on the wool industry with respect to the testing of wool. 
The Labor Government was kicked and accused of bashing the rural community. Yet this Government has the gall to say in the House that it is all right to do it now. The honourable member for New England accepted a levy of lc per lb at that time but would not accept the 1.6c per lb levy which the Labor Government proposed. He would not believe that lc per lb was for beef export inspection; he would not believe that that amount would cover the cost of inspection. He would not accept that 0.6c per lb was to be assigned to the tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication scheme. I refer to the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry again. He stated: 
If there is to be a levy it should not be lc per lb but about 0.7c per lb. 
Unfortunately this is not what the Government is proposing. The Government realises that if it strikes a rate of lc per lb for basic inspection services it will get about $1 5m which can be paid into Consolidated Revenue. 
Even worse in terms of the general debate and speeches made by other speakers, the Opposition at that time implied that we were trying to impose a tax which was beyond a measure to recoup the charges for inspection of meat. The honourable member for New England at that time also pointed out our alleged anti-rural bias and used the argument that the levy was geographically selective. He said that it fell on the northern beef growers who were the fellows exporting and that it discriminated against northern Australia. I guess that if that were a valid argument then, we have to ask: Does it still fall on the northern beef producers? 
I will again read from what the honourable member for New England, who is now the Minister for Primary Industry, had to say. He stated: 
The Opposition sees this Bill as another example by this Government of its lack of concern for country industries; of its lack of concern for exporting industries; and of its lack of concern for the total Australian economy. 
Those were pretty hard words. If he meant what he said and if the argument held true then it must hold true now. Of course it was just a bit of nonsense. The then Opposition was irresponsible. It would say anything. But there was a little bit of consistency. When the present Government came into power in December 1975 it lifted the levy in February 1976. What other hypocrisies can we point to? What other aid did the Government give to the beef industry when it came into power? I was very attraced by some of the speeches that honourable members, then in opposition, put forward during the period 1972 to 1975 concerning the plight of the beef industry. They gave it to us book, chapter and verse. What they said about the industry, particularly for the period from 1974 onwards, was pretty true. The fact of the matter is that after coming into power the only positive step which the Government took to aid the beef industry was to remove the levy in February 1976. 
In the 1977-78 Budget no mention was made of additional assistance for the beef industry. The line in the Budget appropriation table reading 'Assistance to Industries' was left blank. In other words nothing was allocated in that Budget, as compared with $ 1 1.3m in Labor's last 
Budget for beef industry loans. In 1977 the Government decided that it needed an early election. So after the Budget was brought down with no mention of further assistance to the beef industry, the Government trotted out a scheme and it was raced through for electoral purposes. This was known as the beef incentive payments scheme. It was a device to get funds into the hands of beef producers. I accept the administrative problems inherent in that process. The Government selected a scheme which was administratively difficult but other schemes were just as hard to administer. 
The Government wanted to put funds into the hands of producers. I think it can be clearly and honestly said that in many ways the Government raced that scheme through because it was an election bribe. If it were an election bribe we can say that the Government panicked. It realised that it had been in government for nearly two years and that it had hammered the Labor Government for three years about doing nothing for the beef industry. Then the Government suddenly found another election on its hands. It wanted an election so this beef incentive payments scheme was raced through. The scheme was set up in about seven weeks and was done in such a hasty manner that it is now subject to investigation by the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts. This is as a result of problems which the Auditor-General has found. In the bush where the scheme was applied it was known as: 'The slap a cow on the bum scheme', because various means were worked out. If a cow was given a drench or was vaccinated- as long as one did something to the cow- one would get $10. At that stage 90,000 to 100,000 holdings were recorded by the Australian Bureau of Statistics as having beef. In October-November 1977 some 750,000 forms were printed and sent out to every beef farmer, every bank and every post office. The countryside was flooded with pamphlets. It was not a bad dodge. But 750,000 forms were sent out for electoral purposes, in a way at taxpayers' expense. The first 100 cheques were posted out to beef producers with a great fanfare on 30 November 1977. 
The scheme has now gone through and is largely wound up. Eventually there were 90,000 claims and some $ 1 1 7m was paid out. So the Opposition cannot accuse this Government of doing nothing for the beef industry but it took the election of 1 977 to provoke it. It did virtually nothing for three years except lift the levy to which it was so philosophically opposed but which it now finds philosophical grounds for reimposing. 
When we introduced the States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill in mid- 1975 we were accused of acting too late and only at the behest of the States. The then Opposition was most eloquent at that time in pointing to the desperate plight of the beef industry. We all admit that the beef industry was in trouble. But the Opposition on becoming the Government waited for two years after November 1975 before it did anything and then that was done only for electoral purposes. This was the worst period for the beef industry in Australian history. I think it is hypocrisy if we look back at statements made by the Government when it was in Opposition. If it was wrong to levy for beef in 1 973-74 why is it not wrong now? It is inconsistent for the Government to act in this fashion and I think this inconsistency and hypocrisy needs to be pointed out. We would like to point out with respect to the imposition of this tax- as we pointed out in the previous debate on the other measures that have been introducedthat the moment the industry picks up and gets good, as it has in the last four or five months, it cops it. 
We do not know how long the industry will continue in its present buoyant state. I suspect that the female herd is seriously depleted and that we will have a big supply problem even if the price holds up. We do not know the export market. I know that the Government is claiming great success with respect to its forays overseas to gain export markets. The Government went over to the European Economic Community and kicked its head in. We are told that that is good diplomacy and that that is how one gets on well with the EEC. We concede that the Japanese market that suddenly closed up in 1974 has now opened to us and that the problems that were experienced with the American market have got better in recent years. I believed then, as I believe now, that by and large export markets for Australian beef are determined largely by internal politics in those countries and by their own supply and demand situation. We will not analyse the American beef cycle. 
When the Opposition was in government I argued that a viable rural industry preferred to pay its own way. It preferred to pay for charges that could sensibly be levied upon it. The charges that we imposed were at the abattoir level. It was an export levy. I could never see how this could be handed back to the producers one way or the other and even when the levy was dropped by the Government in 1976 it was very hard then to find evidence of pass-back or flow-on with respect to this sort of levy. I do not know what influence a levy at a point of export has at the actual saleyard, and whether the producer gains or loses. In keeping with the notion of selfreliance which the rural sector and the beef industry in particular have, I think that they do not want subsidies. What they do want is help and understanding of their problems when they are experiencing a severe downturn. I point out that the Labor Government gave concessional loans and extended that sort of assistance to the beef industry which was largely in keeping with some of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission at that time. The industry did not take up the loans at the rate that was expected and this was due mainly to their great doubts about the immediacy of prospects in the future. I do not think we can say that we did not do anything for the beef industry. The Government which came into power in 1975 really failed to do anything for two years except, as I have said, take off the levy of 1.6c per lb. 
It is for the reasons I have given that the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. We do accept that the user pays principle is a valid and sensible one. The industry does prefer to pay its own way. There is no outstanding public interest involved where this should be paid by the taxpayer. There do not seem to be any social inequities or inequalities involved. It is simply a tax levied at a certain level to recoup some 50 per cent of the export charges. The levy for beef is estimated to gain something like $16.25m. The levy on grains- the first that the Government has achieved-amounts to $656,000, and $167,500 will be gained from the wool industry in terms of the testing authority. 
The Government has achieved a first, but we are saying that it is reasonable for inspection services to be paid for by the industry. I point out that things can be done with respect to some of these inspection services. My colleague the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  as far back as 18 October 1978, raised the problem of dual inspection services. He pointed out that in November 1976 1,462 Commonwealth and 376 State meat inspectors were employed at export abattoirs throughout Australia. I will not go through the figures. I am sure that honourable members are well aware of the problems experienced with dual export inspection services. People have been talking about them ever since I became a member of this House in 1 972. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised an inquiry last December into dual inspection services. We have heard nothing since. We hope that this is not another broken promise. We hope that an inquiry will be made at some time in the future. The Government has achieved a first in levying the grains industry and the wool industry. It has reimposed a levy on the beef industry which was so stringently and strenuously opposed in 1 973. 
Let me at this stage canvass some of the issues concerning beef stabilisation. This is another matter that is raised particularly when a downturn occurs in the beef industry. It is also raised when the beef industry is experiencing boom conditions and consumers are starting to pay possibly a lot more for beef. We could go through some of these issues. We all know the problems. The farmers would prefer a stable price regime instead of this boom- bust situation. First we need to discuss the stabilisation measures proposed. They are supposed either to stabilise income or to stabilise price. It is totally absurd to try to stabilise income, particularly in the beef industry, in terms of the product itself. The Government's income equalisation deposit scheme probably does more to stabilise income than any other measure, including tax averaging and so on. 
Moves have also been made with respect to carcass classification. Although the carcass classification scheme helps with respect to other schemes that can be proposed in stabilisation terms, there is no use thinking that on its own it will do much to stabilise the beef industry. The States are putting up different schemes. They seem to have some legislation that promises something but I do not know what they have actually delivered as yet. All sorts of different interpretations have been placed on the State schemes. 
The basic problems for the beef industry will remain even with stabilisation schemes. Beef cannot be stored over long periods. We can talk about buffer stock schemes, but it is quite certain that the beef cannot be stored over long periods. It is absurd even to canvass these issues. Any sort of scheme concerning the beef industry is horrendously difficult to administer due to its structure and the fact that the product is perishable and on the hoof. Supply and demand schemes, I believe, are also horrendously difficult. Most of the supply and demand schemes I have looked at eventually seem to me to be not feasible. How the heck can a supply scheme be managed in Australia when the market can be in or out of cycle with the United States? Beef cycles in one country are not of predictable frequency. The feedlot mechanism in the United States, if I can describe it that way, determines to a great extent the availability of beef in that country. Other countries which export to the world markets are almost totally dependent on the weather. Any attempts to administer supply and demand schemes will lead to horrendous difficulties. 
Even if the supply of beef could be controlled to let it on to the market evenly, I think that opportunities would often be missed. The production loss in a certain period might be worse than the price and income loss over another period. How would the supply of beef be controlled between producers? The setting up of any sort of price schedule, I believe, would produce black markets, particularly in the southern States. As I said, any buffer stock scheme would have problems with storage because beef is a perishable commodity. It would be totally inapplicable and hopeless to have buffer stock on the hoof particularly when heading into a drought. There is no way that beef can be stored on the hoof heading into a drought. It simply dies. 
I think we need to put the situation into perspective. Until the dramatic events of the 1970s, the beef industry had not experienced prolonged periods of low prices and incomes. This industry was rather good compared with others in the rural sector. By and large there was no need for government action; and no government action was asked for. I well remember that in 1973, when the Labor Government inquired into meat prices, the beef industry certainly wanted no intervention in any shape by the Government. Another year or two later it was a different matter. 
The beef industry's independence and the fact that it has not needed government assistance until the 1970s are very much due to its structure. It is due in part to the financial structure of the northern industry, which has large units and the fact that beef is associated with a very diversified farming sector in southern Australia. Buffer stock and buffer fund schemes can be used in the handling of wool and wheat, but stabilisation schemes in other industries are more or less used as permanent price support schemes. 
If we look at the other sorts of schemes that are used in the rural sector and apply them to the beef industry we come up against rather profound stumbling blocks. I think it can be said that it is not possible to use the two-price schemes that prevail in some industries. Domestic demand is responsive to price and therefore meat is substitutable internally. A high internal price regime for beef simply cannot be held. It is difficult to keep domestic and export markets separate. The use of such a scheme would be interpreted, quite rightly, as dumping by our trading partners. There are quite a few buffer fund schemes. By and large they come down to two classifications: A point of sale buffer fund scheme and a payment to producers fund scheme. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics calculated that in 1974 to 1977, when the industry was going through its most profound downturn, some $600m to $800m would have been needed to provide a buffer fund scheme to see the industry through that period. Given the financial constraints of the Liberal-National Country Party Government, particularly since it came to power in 1975, 1 cannot see the Government putting forward that sort of money. 
Administrative problems are also associated with the point of sale scheme and the payment to producers scheme. If the levy is imposed at the point of slaughter, ownership is a problem. Classification is handy to assess the value of the beef and how much the owner should be paid. As we all know, the farmers in the European Economic Community could give the graziers in Australia plenty of lessons on how to get paid twice for the same beast. The scheme is very difficult to administer. Let us look at the payment to producers scheme. The BAE did some calculations on what would be involved in farmers trying to administer the scheme themselves with checking by others. Farmers would tend to overstate the birth rates and to understate death rates. Hence the only people who would really benefit in the long term, I would assume, would be the pasture protection boards. 
I have gone a little beyond the scope of the Bills. I understand that my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  will speak on the grain and wool aspects of this set of Bills which are designed to collect about 50 per cent of the export charges. As I said at the outset, we are not opposing these Bills. We feel that the industries not only can afford the payment at this time but also that it is reasonable to impose charges that benefit exporting industries on those industries. My remarks apply also to the other Bills. It seems to me to be a little unfair to reimpose this tax just after the beef industry has been through by far its most severe down turn. It is only just starting to recover. If the Government has to introduce these measures to show that it is acting politically equal with respect to the preliminary or mini-budget, and if the beef industry subsequently has a down turn or finds that it cannot maintain production levels anywhere near what it did in the past, in the last boom, I think the Government will have to very quickly review its decisions. 
Finally, I would like to say again that if this Opposition was as intellectually dishonest as the previous government was when in Opposition, we would be declaring these Bills as anti-rural Bills. We would be saying that the Government has an inbuilt anti-rural bias. We would be tear-  ing through the country saying that. Strangely enough, those industry organisations that, basically, had our guts for garters in 1973 are not saying much. I saw one Press release from a major rural organisation saying that it is fair enough at this point to impose this levy for that gives the Government a good reason to be able to get stuck into the social welfare area in the Budget to be presented in a couple of months. I hope that the Government does not take that course. 
I refer the Minister for National Development to his answer yesterday to a question on import parity pricing of crude oil. Will the Minister acknowledge that the Treasurer's statement on 24 May covered the question of exemptions from the Government's new policy only by way of passing reference? Will he also accept that the question was not dealt with in the enabling legislation presented to the House last week? Will he make a full and frank statement to this House about the extent to which the Government has watered down its decision that windfall profits resulting from import parity pricing should accrue to public revenue rather than to individual producers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) What social security benefits are given to Vietnamese refugees on entry into Australia. 
At what time(s) are Vietnamese refugees entitled to the full range of social security benefits normally available to Australian citizens. 
What provisions normally applying to Australian citizens are waived with respect to the provision of benefits to Vietnamese refugees. 
Is any positive discrimination practised regarding the eligibility for unemployment benefits of Vietnamese refugees. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) Have regulations recently been changed with respect to eligibility for handicapped child's allowance; if not, when were these regulations last changed and what were the changes. 
If the regulations were recently changed, is it a fact that (here are 2 categories, namely (a) severely handicapped and (b) substantially handicapped children; if so, what is the criteria for deciding between the 2 categories. 
3 ) What benefits accrue to each category. 
Does either category entail the discretion of the Minister for Social Security or a doctor. 
Is it a fact that eligibility for the severely handicapped category does not entail a means test and that eligibility for substantially handicapped does, if so, what is the means test. 
6 ) Is or could the cost to a parent for a severely, substantially, moderately or mildly handicapped child be the same. 
How do doctors or the Minister make the distinction between a severely, substantially, moderately or mildly handicapped child. 
8 ) Do all doctors make the same distinctions. 
Do costs to a parent of a child suffering any degree of handicap consistently increase with the age of the child; if so, has the Minister considered taking this factor into account when deciding on the level of benefit. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
Are Vietnamese refugees treated differently to Australian citizens by the Commonwealth Employment Service with respect to any aspect of job placement, work test or training programs, if so, in what ways does the Service discriminate in favour of Vietnamese refugees. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Canberra Times  of 5 April 1979 concerning building regulations in the Australian Capital Teritory and the possible wind effects. 
What dangers are there to the community if a home with free asbestos ceiling insulation has its roof removed by high winds. 
Has the Health Commission agreed that undisturbed asbestos is safe; if so, if asbestos insulation is disturbed through the unroofing of an asbestos insulated house by high winds, what are the possible consequences to the surrounding community. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
1 ) What has been the relationship of his Depanment to the Good Neighbour Councils. 
Why did the Government decide to disband the Good Neighbour Councils. 
What measures has he taken to place in employment staff of the Good Neighbour Councils displaced as a result of Government actions. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) Did his predecessor issue a press release in November 1 977 stating that a study has been commissioned by Telecom into the question of extending Capital City Telephone Districts for charging purposes; if so, which cities and which zones were to be included in the examination. 
Is this the same study mentioned by him in an answer to a question without notice from the Member for Macquarie on 6 March 1979  (Hansard,  page 607); if so, what is the reason for Telecom's inability to report after a lapse of some 18 months. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
) Is the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Service at loggerheads with the Northern Territory Government regarding the question of town planning in national parks in the Northern Territory; 
Is it a fact that the Minister or his predecessor disregarded the views of the Northern Territory Government in the matter referred to in part (1 ) at the time of the framing and passing of the relevant Bills and Acts. 
Is the Jabiru Town Development Act in conflict with the Commonwealth legislation; if so, what requirements by the Commonwealth are not being met by the Northern Territory Government. 
Has the Northern Territory Government conveyed its views directly to the Commonwealth Government. 
Is it also a fact that the Northern Territory Government has employed the services of Macintosh, Parkes and 
Associates, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory to make its views known. 
Has this organisation issued any statements putting forward the Northern Territory Government's point of view; if so, is this a usual form of Government to Government communication. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) Do any of the buildings in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's facilities (a) at Gore Hill, NSW, or (b) elsewhere in Australia, contain asbestos insulant in ceilings; if so, are any of these ceilings deteriorating. 
Is asbestos potentially dangerous to human health; if so, what steps will be taken to remove the ceilings. 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, actual private expenditure on petroleum exploration in 1977-78 was $ 1 10m, only $42m more than in the previous year? Is it also a fact that the unearned windfall addition to the revenue of oil companies as a consequence of government pricing policies increased by about $ 145m in 1977-78 on that of the previous year? In 1979-80 do the oil producing companies expect to make a windfall addition to revenue of over $520m as a result of the Government's pricing policy? Why does the Government not insist that the companies invest all their windfall revenues in exploration in the national interest rather than allow the companies to pocket them at the expense of the petrol user? 
-The Budget is no longer an annual Budget; it is an economic and political exercise. If one wishes to look at it purely as an economic document one needs to examine most closely Statement No. 2 of Budget Paper No. 1 and various other documents tabled on the night of the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Statement No. 2 is straightforward but necessarily is a Treasury view of the state of the economy and from it one can draw economic conclusions as to the reasons for and impact of the implicit Budget strategy on the economy in the year ahead. The Budget Papers present a clear exposition of the thinking behind the Budget inasmuch as the Treasuryand supposedly the Government- does not believe that short term fiscal and monetary measures are capable of having much effect on stimulating recovery and thereby increasing employment. Therefore, the Budget fails to provide an indication of how Australia might lift its real growth rate or how to reach a growth strategy other than by sitting on its hands and waiting for private business naturally or magically to expand sometime in the future, or by banking on capital inflow. 
The Government simply believes that a cut in real incomes is necessary in order to accept the impact of oil price rises, the level of which the Government is foisting unfairly onto the motoring public. In the Treasury statement there is little mention of an economic scenario, other than within the narrow parameters of fiscal and monetary measures. For example, even in terms of fiscal and monetary matters, insufficient stress is placed on the coming impact of the dramatic increases in the prices of materials used in manufacturing. This will have a dramatically increased effect on inflation in the year ahead. Of course no stress is placed on some of the greater problems being posed to the economy by matters such as technological change or the restructuring of industry. 
There are many aspects of this Budget that are clear and uncontestable. It is very deflationary and tough. Because the journalists found it boring does not mean that it is not tough. The cut in the domestic deficit from $2.3 billion last year to $0.9 billion in the coming year shows how tough it is. Outlays are to rise by 9. 1 per cent in a year when inflation is projected to rise by 10 per cent- it is predicted to rise by 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent by some experts- while receipts are projected to rise by 1 5.4 per cent. 
It is revenue that this Government is after in this Budget. The crude oil duty is projected to raise $2.2 billion while income tax is projected to raise $15.1 billion- up by 18.2 per cent in nominal terms. Personal income taxes are expected to raise a higher proportion of total revenue in this year than in any other. This Budget contains the sharpest increases in real taxes since the present Government came into office. Total taxes and charges will rip off the public by $27,000m- a 54 per cent increase in revenue over the last four years. The Budget does nothing to stimulate consumption. It is a Budget negative in the extreme. There is no question that this Budget will not have a very deflationary effect on a very flat, under-employed economy. This Budget follows the May mini-Budget when a litany of broken promises were documented and authenticated. This Budget breaks the promise of tax indexation but also presages another mini-Budget next year particularly if the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wishes to indulge his passionate desire for yet another early election. 
The Budget can be said to be politically honest for this Government, but that says very little as the present Fraser Government has proved to be the most dishonest and insensitive in Australia's history. So, by the Fraser Government's low standards it is politically honest because it forthrightly shows its disregard for the Australian people. It shows its contempt. Penalties previously inflicted on pensioners and wage and salary earners will be removed. The system of yearly pension increases, which should never have been instituted, will revert to twice-yearly pension adjustments. The Government has taken millions of dollars out of the pockets of pensioners and now expects accolades for restoring adjustments that it perverted. The pensioners will not forget. The temporary tax surcharge, which somehow remained, will be removed but tax indexation will not be proceeded with. Yet again the Government expects accolades for the restoration of the old level of tax. 
Sitting suspended from  6 to  8 p.m. 
The Government will make great play of the fact that the average weekly wage earner will receive about $4 a week more after 1 December but the point has to be made that 60 per cent to 70 per cent of our wage earners earn less than the statistical average weekly wage. More importantly, what has happened to indexation? In the words of the Prime Minister, this Government is now less than honest on this issue. The Prime Minister, then the honourable member for Wannon, in his 1975 policy speech said: 
One of the most significant contributions to prosperity will be our personal income tax reforms. We will reduce the tax burden. This reform (tax indexation) will make government more honest with your money. They will no longer be able to rely on the secret tax increase of inflation. 
Again in 1977 the Prime Minister in his election campaign proclaimed: 
We have ended the big tax rip-off. This Government has given the Australian people the greatest tax reforms in our history. This Government has brought in the largest and fairest reforms ever made to Australia's tax system. The Australian people will not accept a return to higher taxes. The Government will bring taxes down further- not increase them. 
In the first statement, the Prime Minister is saying that without tax indexation there is a secret increase through inflation. In the second statement he is saying: 'We will end the big rip-off. We are going to bring taxes down'. This Government increased taxes with the surcharge and it has now perpetuated the rip-off. 
In 1977 the Government did introduce the tax cuts- cuts that heavily favoured the better offwhich were the Prime Minister's central plank in the 1977 election campaign. Those tax cuts are still incorporated in the tax scales today but indexation is gone. This is the most devastating example of the Government's priorities. Indexation was designed to protect people moving into a higher tax bracket simply because of inflation. No such protection exists now. 
The Budget states that the inflation first strategy will prevail no matter what suffering is inflicted on those least able to defend themselves. Overtly it advantages business, disadvantages underprivileged groups and in particular the unemployed. The Government's moves on income tax will secretly occasion an increase in taxes for the average family man. For all the Government's much heralded tax reforms, it is accurate and objective to say that the average family man and middle income earners are marginally worse off than they were when this Government first, unscrupulously, came to power. Some lower income earners are better off but high income earners are much better off. I do not know why anyone on the Government side of the House should seek to deny this fact. It is consistent with the view that the Government has taken at every appearance before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, that is, to reduce real wages. In a curious submission to the indexation inquiry, the Government now proposes to net out the effects of government actions in wage hearings. Just as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has exposed the Government's tax hoax in this Budget,  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, exposed the insanity of knocking another $7 a week off the average wage. The Government simply cannot have it both ways. 
Of course, the greatest rise in indirect taxes the country has ever witnessed now takes place via the Government's oil and fuel price policies. These can be characterised as a revenue grab. If inflation represented a secret tax increase, what does the petrol price increase represent? 
A rip-off. The price of petrol to fill up a Holden Kingswood has gone up from $ 10 to $ 1 6 since 1 978. Every petrol pump is now a taxation office for the Liberal Government. The impact of petrol price increases will feed through the economy, adding to inflation. The Government cannot deny what is fact. It is a government which favours people in the wealthier income groups and penalises people in the lower income groups. It is a government which does this overtly and covertly and, above all, divisively. Senior Ministers are constantly making divisive statements. For example, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  says that unemployment benefits are too high; the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr 
Haslem) says that no unemployment benefits should be paid at all; the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  harasses the unemployed; the Treasurer floats the prospect of no holiday bonus being paid; and some of the Liberal Party back bench members are urging more cuts in social security expenditure. All this is happening while an insensitive Prime Minister flits around the world in his two luxury Boeing 707s, Freebee One and Freebee Two. In 1975 this Government was prepared to use the dole bludger slogan as a means of gaining support and has done so since. That is, it is a government which picks on those least able to defend themselves. 
In terms of the distribution of wealth in our society, we can objectively summarise what have been regressive and progressive measures by this Government in fair treatment of all our people. The regressive measures that this Government has introduced since it came to office include the personal income tax restructuring in 1978, a tax on social security benefits, the abolition of estate and gift duty, the excise duty increases in 1978-79, the customs duty increases in 1978-79, non-indexation of family allowances, the abolition of the property component in the means test, less frequent indexation of pensions, the freezing of unemployment benefits, the moves to payment in arrears, harassment of recipients, freezing of rates for juniors, non-indexation for those without dependants, the abolition of the maternity allowance, the cut in the Aboriginal programs, the complete destruction of Medibank, the composition of education funds, cuts in urban public transport funds, the reduction in the coal levy, oil pricing at import parity, the investment allowance, and the increase in the retention allowance. One could go on. Compare this list with the few examples of progressive measures. They include the raising of the tax threshold, the family allowances, the tax on lump sum leave payments, the departure tax, the technical and further education scheme and the training schemes, and the unemployment benefit for farmers. That is about the extent of them. 
Above all, this Budget places on record the Government 's contempt for and its heartless attitude towards the unemployed. One has to look hard for any reference to unemployment, let alone the unemployed. However, according to the Budget documents, employment growth during 1979-80 should be a little above 0.75 percent or some 50,000 people. Annual net additions to the work force are about 1 10,000. Even if the Budget projection is reached, unemployment will be 50,000 to 60,000 higher this year. The allowance for unemployment benefits recognises this, but just as the estimates of the deficit have undershot for every year of this Government so too has the amount for the unemployment benefit been underestimated. 
I would like to talk about unemployment in general. The Government's neglect of and disregard for the unemployed indicates that it is not concerned about unemployment as a political issue. It asks how, if 92 per cent or 94 per cent of the work force is employed, 6 per cent or 8 per cent unemployed can be an issue. What is the percentage of hidden unemployed, or discouraged workers? The Liberal strategy has been to maximise the selfishness of those employed and to denigrate and stigmatise the unemployed. Perhaps the opinion polls are telling the Government that unemployment is not an issue. The Government seems to be aware that it has to smarten up but it is not aware that unemployment is an issue. I happen to believe otherwise. I believe that unemployment is a political issue and that no government, not even one as cynical and as cruel as this one, can ignore unemployment in the way it has and continue to do so. 
On the latest figures available to me, my electorate has the fourth highest number of people receiving unemployment benefit in New South Wales. The electorate with the highest number is Sydney, Wentworth is the second and Richmond is the third. The latter two seats can expect little concern from their members. Most unemployed people live in the western suburbs of Sydney or the industrial areas in New South Wales. The electorates with well above average numbers of people currently receiving the unemployment benefit are Macarthur, Macquarie, Phillip, EdenMonaro, Calare and Canberra. These electorates are in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. If the honourable members opposite who represent those seats believe that unemployment is not a political issue, I invite them to wage another dole bludger campaign, as their party did in 1975, in the next election and to see how correct their political perception is. 
In a couple of months the exodus from our schools starts again as another crop of young people fall into a saturated job market. In one part of my electorate where in April-May, half of last year's school leavers were still unemployed, 1,400 young people will leave school. One advantage young people may have in gaining a job is to have family connections. When many people come from single parent families, which is all too common in the western suburbs of Sydney, they are doubly disadvantaged. 
The Government has attempted to diminish the level and importance of unemployment by manipulation of figures and a range of measures. The Budget Papers state that large numbers of people have withdrawn from the work force. On page 61 of the Budget document the Government implicity acknowledges that it welcomes a declining trend in the participation rate, that is the number of people in or potentially composing the work force. Of course, we can easily isolate three groups- men over 55, married women and young people. All these three groups now have large components of people who are no longer registering for employment. The Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research which is one of the few independent economic research organisations in Australia suggested in its first review for 1979 that about 800,000 Australians were out of work. The calculation then and now is that at least 300,000 people compose the hidden unemployed. Who is to blame for this? The culprits sit opposite me. For too long the Government has tried to divest itself of the responsibility by casting aspersions on the unemployed, on previous administrations or by telling lies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Mr Speaker indicated earlier in the day that he considers that the term which the honourable member has just used is unparliamentary. There are alternative expressions that achieve the same effect. I ask the honourable member to desist from the use of the word. 
I withdraw. The Government has tried to divest itself of the responsibility by casting aspersions on the unemployed, on previous administrations or by simply telling less than the truth. It is time that the triumvirate responsible for the economic mess this country finds itself in took credit for its deeds. The people concerned are the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and, if the Press is correct,  Mr Stone,  Secretary of the Treasury. In his book on unemployment  Mr Keith  Windschuttle said: 
The Fraser Government's actions towards unemployment must rank as one of the most disreputable campaigns ever undertaken by an Australian Government. It has ignored the advice of its own inquiries that its policies were ill-founded. It has argued publicly and introduced measures designed to make the unemployed objects of contempt to the rest of the community. It has blamed unemployment on the unemployed themselves and has made the poorest members of society bear the brunt of economic recession. The campaign can only be described as persecution. 
This Budget continues that persecution. There is no sense in Government back benchers saying that they feel for the unemployed. It is they who back this Government and this Budget which, for example, has cut the Special Youth Employment Training Program from $83m to only $28m. The number of young people going through that program will drop by about 40,000 in the year to come. It is the Government back benchers who back a Budget which freezes the unemployment benefit at $36 and $51.45 for the single unemployed. The first rate, $36 has not been increased since 1 975. If we apply a factor to take account of inflation between then and now the amount is worth about $21 in 1975 values. This Budget retains the provision that people can earn only $6 a week before there is a reduction in their unemployment benefit. One of the ways of getting a few more people into the work force would be to raise that threshold. 
This Budget perpetuates two levels of poverty. The vocal social welfare groups have made some gains. In particular, twice-yearly indexation of pensions has been restored, but that was something that should never have been taken away. The unemployed, people on sickness benefits and those receiving the rent allowance- the poorest social welfare recipients in this country who do not have a voice- have clearly lost. The Budget is clearly such a deflationary and negative one that it will do nothing to solve the economic problems of this country. It is a Budget which concentrates on a narrow monetarist interpretation of the economy. This Government shows no concern for the unemployed and a scant concern for those least able to defend themselves. For those reasons the Budget should be condemned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) What are the objects and activities of the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. 
How many persons are employed by the School, what are their qualifications, and what is each employee's principal role in the School. 
3 ) How is the School funded. 
Has the School, or its employees, received any remuneration from commerce or industry, including, for example, assistance to employees to attend conferences overseas or in Australia; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
How is the rate of inflation usually measured in Australia. 
Has the rate of inflation in Australia been at an annual rate of 1 9 per cent in any year in the 1 970s. 
What has been the quarterly rate of inflation in Australia for each quarter since the March quarter, 1972. 
Is it valid to calculate the rate of inflation by multiplying one quarter's rate by 4 to obtain an annual rate. 
5 ) Is the annual rate of inflation usually stated in terms of a calendar year or a financial year. 
What has been the annual rate of inflation in each of the years from 1972 to 1978, inclusive, and in each of the financial years 1972-73 to 1977-78, inclusive. 
What fiscal measures by the Governments of the 1970s have directly affected the rate of inflation in terms of its measurement for a subsequent quarter. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether there is any information available as to the wealth or poverty of Vietnamese refugees; if so, could this be tabulated. 
Is it a fact, as is widely held publicly, that Vietnamese refugees pay the equivalent of $ US 1000 per head to escape Vietnam. 
I ask the Prime Minister Has he made extensive use of Enterprise Colorvideo Productions Pty Ltd for the production of his addresses to the nation? Was this company assisted out of receivership in June 1978 by a $245,000 loan from the Australian Film Commission? Has the producer of these addresses to the nation for Enterprise Colorvideo been given an $89,000 contract for the production of the Special Broadcasting Service's pilot 13-week ethnic television program? Did the Prime Minister introduce this producer to the Special Broadcasting Service as the person most competent to make ethnic television services? In view of his statement on Sunday, 29 April, that he would be taking a close personal interest in the Special Broadcasting Service, will the Prime Minister outline to the House the full story of what seem to be extremely close links with this television production company and its associates? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
Has he made any public suggestion that (a) women's health centres should have their funds cut, (b) funds be cut for the women's health centre at Liverpool, NSW and (c) women 's health centres should in future charge patients on a fee-for-service basis. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Can he say how many passenger aircraft worldwide have crashed with capacities of (a) 50-100, (b) 101-200, (c) 201-300 and (d) 301 and over passengers and what distances from take-off or landing (in kms) have these accidents occurred during each year since 1975. 
Can he also say how many international airports are (a) within and (b) beyond 10 kilometres of the central business district of the city they serve. 
3 ) What is the population of the cities they serve. 
How many airline passengers have passed through Sydney Kingsford-Smith Airport, (a) direct and (b) in transit, during each year since 1975. 
I fully support the remarks made and the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This provision is so wide that it is singularly dangerous. It is capable of almost indefinite extension. As it is worded, it would provide an excellent charter for the secret police of any state, including Pinochet's police in Chile and the KGB. It is all encompassing as it is. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is proposing that we remove the word 'ultimately'. By doing that we would at least put some stress back on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to consider fully the definition of the word 'subversion ', which is far too wide. 
As it is, it could affect anyone, as we have pointed out during the second reading debate. It could affect church groups, civil rights groups, protest groups, minority political groups and, in fact, any opposition party. It could affect any Australian who works with, is married to, does business with, employs, is a friend of, drinks beer with, attends the same club as, goes to church with, is a neighbour of or talks to any member of the groups I have just mentioned. The Bill provides for a very wide definition and interpretation of the word 'subversion'. The very vagueness of the definition as it stands also leaves a massive amount of discretion to low grade operatives. I stress the term 'low grade operatives' because there is a tendency when speaking of ASIO to feel that all is well because it has a DirectorGeneral of integrity in  Mr Justice  Woodward. The fact is that many decisions on surveillance are made at a lower level and in State branches. If a low level or low grade officer is given an inch, he will end up by taking a lot more. I think we have abundant evidence of that in what  Mr Justice  White said following his investigation in South Australia. Very importantly, we have evidence of that also in what the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  said. As a former Prime Minister, he would know exactly what transpired on many occasions in the operation of our security forces. He said again this morning on the radio program  A.M.  that he knew of occasions when ASIO went beyond its charter. 
The product of the kinds of attitudes to subversion contained in this definition leads to the abuses described by  Mr Justice  White in his report on the South Australian Special Branch in the early 1950s. He said, for example: 
After 1953/4, Special Branch files assumed a new dimension of intense interest of Labor opinion and Labor trade unions. All elected State Labor leaders became subjects of index cards, and sometimes of subject sheets and files. Interest in extreme right wing organisations dwindled into insignificance. Interest in moderate right wing opinion was virtually non-existent. Interest in centre, moderate left radical and extreme left opinion was the main preoccupation. 
So we know for a fact by the process of judicial audit, if one likes to put it that way, that ASIO has been overly concerned and has exhibited political bias. A former Liberal Prime Ministerthe right honourable member for Lowe- has hinted that he knew of this when he was Prime Minister. I believe that we need to remove the word 'ultimately' from paragraph (a) of subclause (1) of clause 5 because, as I said at the outset, it would at least put some pressure back on to ASIO to be more careful when it handles, when it deals with and when it acts under all the inferences contained in this rather wide-ranging definition of the word 'subversion'. The definition is unsatisfactory. It needs to be much more precise. I basically believe that we in this country have a democracy which is robust enough to enable us to accept precision written into laws which concern security and intelligence and which protect the rights of every Australian person. That is what the Opposition in this place is about; we are here to protect civil rights and to protect the rights of every Australian. It should not be hard to compose a form of words that guarantees those civil rights. I believe that if we remove the word 'ultimately' we will go at least some way towards doing that. 
When the Opposition's amendment to this clause was being debated in the Senate the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said that a clause of this kind must be interpreted in a commonsense way. I do not find that point of view altogether satisfactory. I do not think we should be attempting to place on the statute book laws that have to be interpreted in a commonsense way. Legal interpretation is bad enough. If one looks at this clause in a commonsense way, one finds that sub-clause ( 1 )(a) refers to 'other unlawful acts'. Yet in relation to sub-clause ( 1 ) (b) the Government is saying that we cannot insert the word unlawful'. Looking at this clause in a commonsense way, I do not know why it is all right to have that word in one paragraph and not have it inserted in the other one. 
People are worried about two areas of this clause. They are worried in relation to the problems of picketing, of people exercising their right of protest- for example, outside an office where people were being conscripted during the Vietnam War. Under this legislation this is one action which could be interpreted as obstructing the Defence Force. The other area of concern, as other honourable members have pointed out, is with respect to trade unions- for example, where the Transport Workers Union of Australia held up the supply of petrol or the operations of Garden Island Dockyard so that a ship could not be fitted out. 
There has been discussion about the actions of the trade unions and about the use of the word unlawful'. That is what we are talking about. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation provided definitions of the meaning of subversion' to the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. We all accept how difficult it is to express the meaning of 'subversion' and to phrase it in a legal form. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, we are talking about wording. But it is quite clear that ASIO did not want it described in terms as broad as the definition in this Bill. For example, in the report of  Mr Justice  Hope the second definition of 'subversion' is given as overthrow by force and undermining by unlawful means and the definition of 'subversive activity ' is given as overthrow of the Constitution by revolution or sabotage, overthrow by force or violence and destruction of Commonwealth property. The definition is very definite and succinct. Because the Opposition simply wants to put in this clause the word 'unlawful' suddenly the Government is very worried. If one also looks at the section of  Mr Justice  Hope's report as to trade unions one will see that it states: 
ASIO does not, and properly does not, surveil employer organisations or trade unions as such. 
Many people would disagree with that. The report continues: 
However, the surveillance by ASIO of left-wing radical organisations judged to be subversive or potentially subversive, and of the members of those organisations, has led to ASIO obtaining intelligence concerning the activities of trade unions which are controlled by members of those organisations or which the members of those organisations seek to control. 
Relating this clause to defence, and specifically to defence contracts, paragraph 244 of the report states: 
However, industrial disruption may affect security, and thus properly attract the attention of ASIO. This could be the case in respect of the disruption of undertakings carrying out defence contracts, but it could be in other cases as well. If I may illustrate this point by way of analogy, Australia has a key points' system in its defence organisation. These 'key points' are places the destruction of or damage to which would affect Australia 's defence and security. 
The paragraph goes on to say that these key points include defence installations and essential features or services, such as water and power services. The upshot of the conclusion by  Mr Justice  Hope is that intelligence collected by ASIO could be referred to the Department of Industrial Relations. The report did not go much further than that. It states that it may be fair enough to collect intelligence on the activities of people within trade unions, but I do not think that our amendment conflicts in any way with what  Mr Justice  Hope said about the communication of intelligence about trade unions or with what ASIO said when it put up some definition of subversion to the Royal Commission. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Does the Warsaw Convention cover passengers flying in Jumbo or wide-bodied jet aircraft. 
Is the limit of liability $45,000 per passenger on the death of passengers involved in an aircrash. 
Has compensation been paid in full to the families of people killed in the Teneriffe airline disaster. 
Is the Commonwealth Government liable on the death of passengers involved in an air disaster where an employee of the Government (e.g. an air traffic controller) is subsequently shown to have made an error in judgment. 
Do small aircraft operate or have they operated in close vicinity to large aircraft in the proximity of Sydney Kingsford-Smith Airport in any instance since 1 975. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that Australia is about to lose a contract to supply a Middle East market with 160 tonnes of fresh lamb a week, worth nearly $6m to the exporters, due solely to a decision by the Minister not to relax operating restrictions on supplemental air cargo airlines? Is it a fact, as has also been claimed, that this is another example of cutting off our nose to spite our face by way of protecting Qantas Airways Ltd? 
It is always a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in a debate. Except for his politics, he is not a bad sort of bloke. He is one who generally uses fair and logical arguments. He has had a few cracks at the Australian Labor Party and the Labor Government. Thankfully he did not blame  Mr Whitlam  for the oil crisis in 1973. The honourable member pointed out that  Mr Wran  had said something about the Australian Labor Party's economic policy being a hotchpotch. I suppose that the Opposition will have to live with those words from now on. It is also obvious that the Liberal Government will be hammering a point about our economic policy being a sellout to the Left and that sort of nonsense. Anyone can pick up the words said at a conference and use them to advantage. Anyone can pick up and use the word said by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in relation to his opposition to what the Liberal Party of Australia is doing in Queensland. Anyone could point to the words said at the weekend by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson ) and the Minister for Defence (Mr Killen).  In politics, the use of intemperate words at times is something that we are all well aware of and familiar with. 
The fact of the matter is that the economic policy of the Labor Party as thrashed out in Adelaide was not a sellout to any faction or to any individual; it was a simple, pragmatic approach as a result of debate. We have already tried one prices and incomes referendum in this country and I am quite sure that if another one were to be put up the same fate would befall it. The ALP's economic policy at present is a significant and straightforward response to the economic problems of the day. I was very pleased to hear the honourable member for Lilley say, quite properly, that what happens in one year is not as a result of the preceding period. I want particuularly to talk about leads and lags as they are known in economic jargon. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I remind the honourable member at this point that he is required to address himself to the amendment. 
I am quite prepared to speak to the amendment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I want to address myself to matters of a general economic nature, particularly in light of the amendment of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  During the last four or five years, through constant repetition of simplified arguments and arguments that are best described as diametrically opposite to the truth, the LiberalNational Country Party Government has managed to get away with propounding two major economic frauds. The first is that LiberalNational Country Party governments are better than Labor governments at managing such things as the money supply and other economic variables. The second is that everything in economic policy has to be subordinated to reducing the Budget deficit. This is the idea of inflation first, to heck with the unemployed and down with notions such as public works expenditure. One can label these frauds. One can label the first one as the money supply myth and the second as the Budget deficit myth. I believe, and I am sure that most economists believe, that the facts of the situation are as follows: Firstly, the record of the Liberal-National Country Party Government in managing the money supply was and still is extremely bad. In fact, it was the failure of the Liberal-National Country Party Government under the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  in 1972 which led to many of the subsequent economic problems in 1973 and 1974. Secondly, the Budget deficit is important, but there are many other aspects of economic policy which are also important. The Fraser Government has allowed the objective of reducing the Budget deficit to become a fetish. 
I turn to the first proposition about the money supply. It is true, as members of the present 
Government are fond of telling us, that responsible control of the money supply is desirable. What is not realised, however, is that it was the McMahon Government in 1972 that left us with a legacy of monetary instability. It was in the last year of the McMahon Government that the rate of increase in the money supply really got out of control.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table regarding the nominal and real rates of growth of money supply for the years 1970 to 1979. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909254_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

This table shows the annualised rates of growth in respect of the money supply as expressed in Ml and M3, the consumer price index and the real growth in Ml and M3. This table shows that even in nominal rates, the rate of increase in the money supply for the last two or three quarters of the McMahon Government was the highest in Australia 's history. That is bad enough. This was after a period of relative price stability. This was after a period when the money supply during the 1950s and the 1960s was not important. It was not important internationally. It was not until the 1970s that the worldwide growth in the money supply got out of hand. I will not go into all the reasons for that but there was speculation in both commodities and currencies caused partially by the failure of the Bretton Woods Agreement in 1971 and the onset of excessive liquidity in America as a result of the Vietnam War. 
During the quiet period of the 1950s and the 1 960s, running up to 1 972 , we had a dme or relative price stability. But the table shows that in the last three quarters of 1972 the nominal increase in the money supply was the highest ever in Australia's history. That is bad enough. But if we take out the rate of increase in the CPI- that is, we get the real increase in the rates of money supply as expressed as Ml and M3- we find that it is really bad in real terms. In fact, it is even worse in real terms; it is by far the worse. It was far worse than any period- any quarter on any six months period- under the Labor Government. The people who say that they are the good money managers are the people who left us with this legacy. 
If there is a high money supply and if that is fed into an inflationary situation, an increase in the money supply has to follow. But even so, the Labor Government did a great deal to rein in the money supply. One has only to look at the last column of the table, which refers to the period of office of the Labor Government. In inheriting this increase in the money supply, it was inevitable that wages and prices would increase. That was the legacy that the Liberal-National Country Party Government left us. This, of course discredits those honourable members opposite who say that they were or are better money managers. When one looks at Ml and M3 one finds that it was in the six months to December 1972 that the money supply grew at the fastest rate in nominal terms. It was the fastest rate that we had had for 20 years to that stage and it has not been equalled since. In nominal terms, the rate of increase in 1975 approached that of 1972, but of course the rate of inflation was much higher and to adjust for this we must look at the figures in real terms. When we do so we see that the real increase during Labor's term of office did not approach the rate that the Liberal-National Country Party Government left us with. 
Largely because the Liberal-National Country Party Government refused to revalue the foreign exchange rate in 1972, there was an unprecedented increase in the money supply in the 12 months before the Labor Government came to office. As I said, throughout the 1950s and 1960s the average annual increase in the money supply was about 6.5 per cent. Because of the large surplus in the balance of payments in 1972 there was a great influx of money from overseas and the domestic money supply increased in a dramatic way. The second main increase was caused by the Liberal Government's expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in 1972. In 1971 the Liberal Government planned for a domestic budget surplus of $630m. In fact, the surplus was about $390m, which was the smallest domestic surplus since 1968-69. On top of that, the Liberal Government election Budget of August 1972 reinforced the expansion. After all, it had nothing to lose. In August 1972 it budgeted for a domestic deficit of $60m. In the 12 months to December 1972 the domestic money supply increased by about 20 per cent, or about three times the annual average increase for the previous 20 years. Nearly 1 7 per cent of that 20 per cent increase took place in the six months to 1 December. 
That was a classic case of too much money chasing too few goods. That was the legacy that the Liberal Government left to the Labor Government. There is no doubt that this greatly contributed to inflation during 1973 and into 1 974. We now know from bitter experience just how long it takes to get the economy back on an even keel when things go astray. After four years in office the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has not even begun to achieve what he promised he would do in three years. What chance did the Labor Government have in 1 973 and 1974, before a forced election, when it was left a legacy of absolute monetary irresponsibility? It is now widely accepted by economic commentators that much of the problems that Australia experienced in the years after 1972 can be attributed to the monetary explosion in that year. For example, I can cite Professor Porter of the Monash University. In an article in a German journal, the  Weltwirtschagtliches  entitled: 'External Shocks and Stabilisation Policy in a Small Open Economy', he said: 
Monetary instability in Australia can be traced back to 197 1, the time  or  a refusal of the coalition government to revalue the currency. 
So he goes on. I can cite other academics. For example Davis and Lewis, in the publication  Monetary Policy  stated: 
Similarly, the failure to revalue the exchange rate after the currency realignment led to an undervalued currency, prompting both an improvement on current account and a speculative inflow of capital . . . 
Inflation began to accelerate, in pan in response to these pressures . . . and 'stagflation 'appeared. 
Again, they stress that a lot of the inflation during 1 973-74 was due to the irresponsible policies of the Liberal Government, particularly during 1972. What were the consequences of this monetary explosion? As I have said, many of the economic problems between 1973 and 1975 were the direct result of the monetary explosion- for example, the wage push of 1974. The Liberals had made enormous political capital out of that. Perhaps with firmer policies, some of the wage push could have been controlled, but the majority of it was due to the monetary explosion of 1972. Throughout the world, wherever there has been a monetary explosion of this sort, wages have followed. Even Milton Friedman, the high priest of the monetarists, said quite categorically when he was here that trade unions do not cause inflation. In terms of monetary policy, as far as Friedman and most of the respected monitorists are concerned, if there is a buildup of money in the economy, stability goes out the door and prices and wages increase. 
Even Milton Friedman concedes that trade unions do not cause inflation. He has pointed to the effects of an increase in the money supply in terms of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I am quite sure that when we have an arbitration commission that has to deal not with economic variables but with industrial peace, there is an even stronger reason to say that the increase in the money supply during 1972 very much caused the wage push of 1974. I believe that the McMahon Government of 1972 must answer for much of the wage push of 1974. Higher rates of inflation in 1973 and 1974 were inevitable once the money supply had been allowed to rise to over 25 per cent per annum. 
The Labor Government did much to try to control inflation. I shall reiterate some of the steps that were taken. For example, there was the revaluation of the Australian dollar. It is not widely realised just how significant these revaluations have been. In December 1972 there was a revaluation of about 7 per cent, in February 1973 there was a further effective revaluation when the United States dollar was devalued by 10 per cent and we did not follow, in September 1973 there was a further overt revaluation of about 5 per cent and since May 1974 there has been an effective revaluation, which has gone largely unnoticed, of a further 7 per cent against the Deutsche mark because we are tied to the 
United States dollar which has been strengthening in world currency markets. We also had variable deposit requirements. Levels of 33.3 per cent and 25 per cent certainly helped curb the inflow of liquidity during 1973 and into 1974. There was a tariff cut of 25 per cent. We strengthened the Prices Justification Tribunal and introduced or strengthened the Trade Practices Act, and we cut back the rate of growth in the Public Service by one per cent. 
What was the cause of the monetary explosion under the Government of the right honourable member for Lowe? I think it is useful to look back over the history to see what can be learnt. There is an important lesson to learn from the Liberals' failure in 1972. Since a Liberal government cannot revalue because of opposition from the Country Party, an inflow of capital from overseas is very inflationary under a Liberal Prime Minister. But the present Government's strategy is caused by expectations of capital inflow. The explosion of 1 972 was caused by the fight between the Liberals and the Country Party at Christmas time in 1971. The right honourable member for Lowe wanted to revalue but the Country Party refused. The result of this was an enormous build-up of foreign reserves during 1972 which spilled over into the domestic money supply. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! If the right honourable gentleman feels that he is being misrepresented he can seek redress. He will resume his seat. The honourable member's time is running out. 
What would happen if, as the Government hopes, there is a capital inflow in the coming year? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) Can he say whether the US Environmental Protection Agency has stated that by all standards of research, asbestos passing through water would or could lead to cancer. 
What information can be provided on the use of asbestos water pipes in Canberra, Sydney, and in other Australian cities. 
-A court controlled ballot of the New South Wales branch of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association is presently being conducted in New South Wales. The ballot is to be completed by 10 or 1 1 October. The ballot arises out of Proceedings Nos. 14 and 33 of 1978 of the Federal Court. There is little need for me to inform honourable members of the enormous amount of legal inquiry, court challenge and counterchallenge into matters concerning this union and the shop branch of the Australian Workers Union. I am proud to be a member of the AWU but I make no judgment as to the virtues or vices of the three groups contesting the ballot, although of course I am well aware of some of the allegations being made. I am not fully aware of the complications involved in eligibility for people to vote because of people being registered at both State and Federal levels, or at State level only. There is some confusion in the minds of some of the eligible voters. 
However, I am concerned at the way the ballot is being conducted, and at allegations of improper practices that constituents have brought to my attention. A constituent has informed me that she had been visited at her home, at night, by a person purporting to be from the SDA and that this person asked that she hand over her ballot paper so that she could fill it out for her. I visited the home of my informant and am convinced that the event occurred. Of course, such an action is a breach of section 171 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Another woman has complained to me that, although her employer has been deducting union dues and forwarding these to Victoria for use by the union, she has been denied a vote because she is not on the roll. I have advised her to contact the electoral officer. 
On making inquiries about the first matterthat is, people visiting homes and asking for ballot papers to be handed over- I have been told that there have been at least three complaints of similar events which have been reported to the Commonwealth Police. This is a big election and I understand that some 40,000 ballot papers have been sent out. The ballot has been ordered by a Federal court- it is a court controlled ballot- and one would have hoped that, with all the machinery of government behind it, there would have been no irregularities in the ballot. I would be very much obliged if the responsible Minister could check into the allegations being made to me, particularly with respect to the complaints to the Commonwealth Police. The Government wants the courts to control all union affairs when it suits it, and many Government members opposite want to involve courts in decisions on strike action. If union ballots, which one would anticipate are relatively straightforward, cannot be conducted without problems such as I have outlined, I believe the Government should take some action to tighten up procedures to ensure that abuses do not take place. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 6 June 1979: 
1 ) Did he attend a meeting of UNCTAD at Manila, Philippines in May 1979. 
Did he promise or commit funds to the second window of the Common Fund; if so, what will Australia's contribution be. 
Is it a fact that by 23 May 1979, 9 countries had committed $1 16.5m to the Fund but Australia had not forwarded any sum by 31 May 1979. 
When will Australia transmit the promised or committed funds to UNCTAD. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Has he stated during 1979 that 400,000 persons have been assisted by the Government's various schemes for the unemployed; if so, (a) over what period and in what schemes have the 400,000 persons been assisted, (b) how many persons have been assisted in each scheme and (c) how many persons were assisted in the various schemes available in each (i) calendar and (ii) financial year since the present Government came to office. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
Did the Prime Minister say on 15 May 1978 that people employed by the Good Neighbour Council and subsequently displaced as a result of Government policy would find jobs in Commonwealth Government employment. 
Did the Public Service Board write to the  Chairman  of the Working Party of Good Neighbour Councils on 8 January 1979 stating that this was not possible. 
If so, did the Prime Minister contact the Board on behalf of employees of the Good Neighbour Councils in either 1978 or 1979. 
-The Opposition is opposed to this Bill and will be moving to retain the subsidy at its present level. The Bill is being debated as a result of a decision announced in the so-called May mini-Budget. This was the measure that was intended to allow a softer main Budget in case the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  decided to call an early election. After some indecision as to the date of implementation of the new measure, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  made it known in his second reading speech of 22 August. I do not know what confidence the farmers can have in this Government. The change is to be made in January 1 980. It was announced in May, but the final decision was made in August. This Bill was introduced on the day after the Treasurer in his Budget lopped 20 per cent in real terms off" rural sector spending. 
As well as penalising non-metropolitan Australia with its atrocious fuel policy which will cause and continue rising fuel prices- that policy itself affects the price of nitrogenous fertilisersthe Government cut reconstruction funds in the Budget by 63 per cent, cut wool research funds by $9m, did not increase Primary Industry Bank of Australia funding, although some measures since then have corrected that to some degree, and did not increase the interest rate on income equalisation deposits. The farm sector suffered worst in the May mini-Budget, as a result of which $70m was lopped off the rural recovery funds and beef levies were reintroduced on an industry trying to get back on its feet after the worst trouble it has ever had. Overall spending by the Government on farmers this year will be a miserable $2 19m. This contrasts with a massive hike of 1 37 per cent in assistance for manufacturing industry which all farmers know is already well protected and is affecting them adversely as exporters. The Government has now decided to reduce the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy even further. 
The Opposition is opposed to this Bill for much the same reasons as it opposed a like Bill last year cutting the subsidy from $60 a tonne to $40 a tonne. We believe that the subsidy should remain at at least $40 a tonne and not be reduced to $20 a tonne. I give notice to the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, that we will oppose clause 4 of the Bill in the Committee stage. We realise, of course, that if we are successful in having this clause negated it will also mean some alteration to the wording of clause 5. 
The Opposition does not accept the Industries Assistance Commission's report of 1975 as a crutch or an alibi for the Government. The situation has changed. A lot has happened in the key industries using nitrogenous fertilisers since the IAC report. It is nonsense, illogical and contradictory for a government to keep a subsidy on one fertiliser- superphosphate, which the IAC will not even look at for five years- and, at the same time, phase out a subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers. There is a great difference between the two in that nitrogen does not build up in the soil as does superphosphate. There is also a contradiction and inconsistency in the Governments policy. We have the phosphate fiends on the one hand and the nitrogen knockers on the other. We realise that the Prime Minister uses more superphosphate than nitrogen, but that cannot be the only reason for this inconsistency. We are spending about $40m this year on the superphosphate subsidy, but the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy will receive only a measly $7. 5m and the subsidy will be phased out rapidly. 
The history of the subsidy gives us some idea of its value in the past. A comparison between the price of nitrogenous fertiliser today and its price when the Bill was first introduced in 1 966 shows how severely its value, even at $40 a tonne, has been diminished. If we take the recent history of the value of nitrogenous fertiliser we see that urea cost $97 a tonne in August 1974. In September 1 978 that figure had gone up to $ 1 59 a tonne. The price I was given today was $207.82 a tonne ex-Brisbane. So the price has gone up while the subsidy has come down. This has had a pincer effect. The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Act 1966 paid a subsidy from August 1966 on manufactured and nitrogenous substances used as fertilisers or as a supplement to stock feed. The subsidy rate was initially set at $78.74 a tonne or $80 a ton. In those days it was a very real subsidy. The present subsidy of $40 a tonne or the proposed subsidy of $20 a tonne are of little value. The subsidy was paid to producers and importers, with provision for the full benefit to be passed on to users. The subsidy was paid on both locally produced and imported nitrogenous fertilisers, but imported fertilisers were eligible for subsidy only if supplies were not available from local manufacturers or if the prices of locally manufactured fertilisers were higher than the price of non-dumped imports. 
The aims of the subsidy scheme were to reduce costs in major user industries, to assist users to compete in export markets, to encourage the use of nitrogen in new applications and to encourage local production of nitrogenous fertilisers through increased demand. The main users of nitrogenous fertilisers were and are, the sugar industry, fruit and vegetable producers, the livestock industries based on improved pasture, and to a lesser degree the cereal industries. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended the phasing out of the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy over three years; that was the report of 5 September 1975. The subsidy was to be paid at the rate of $60 a tonne in 1 976. In 1977 the rate was to be $40 a tonne, and in 1978 the rate was to be $20 a tonne. 
The Government accepted in principle the lAC's recommendation that the subsidy be phased out, but the original subsidy rate of $78.74 a tonne was continued until 3 1 December 1976. Since then the phase-down has been rapid, as per the IAC recommendations. Yet the Government, to give itself some sort of excuse or alibi, has not phased the subsidy rate down at quite the same rate as the IAC recommendation: What a good boy it has been. The Government needs to realise that the price of nitrogenous fertiliser is rising and that as a result of its fuel oil price policies it will continue to rise even further; the price is locked in. The price of suphate of ammonia in Sydney is nearly $ 1 00 per tonne, but this is not the main fertiliser used in the key industries. 
This Bill particularly disadvantages and harms the major industry which uses more nitrogenous fertilisers than any other single crop, over 30 per cent of total Australian usage- the sugar industry. This industry has not experienced profitable conditions for quite some time. So, in effect, the Government is singling out this industry for particularly savage treatment. The three most common forms of nitrogenous fertiliser used in the sugar industry are aqua-ammonia, urea and ammonium nitrate. Urea, which is 40 per cent elemental nitrogen, costs $207.80 a tonne exworks after the present subsidy has been paid. Nitram, or ammonium nitrate, which is 34 per cent nitrogen, costs $171.80 a tonne ex-works after the subsidy. Aqua-ammonia, which is 20.5 per cent nitrogen, costs $84.59 a tonne ex-works, again after the subsidy. All the prices of these items are rising fast. They are locked into the oil price policies of the Government. In a year when some prices have risen by nearly $50 a tonne, the Government is going to slash another $20 a tonne from the subsidy. 
To give honourable members some idea of usage, the Queensland sugar industry used 136,000 tonnes of these fertilisers in 1977-78, and that was some 74 per cent of all nitrogen used in Queensland. Queensland sugar producers used  47,000 tonnes of urea alone,  nearly 14,000 tonnes of sulphate of ammonia, and the balance of over 74,000 tonnes was of other types. Queensland uses over 57 per cent of all nitrogenous fertilisers used in Australia, and these figures only highlight the fact that it is the sugar industry which is the main user of nitrogenous fertiliser and it is the industry which this Government is singling out for treatment. 
This Bill particularly attacks the Queensland sugar industry. The crutch, of the excuse of the IAC report, is no longer a good enough argument. The conditions have changed. What does the Government have against the honourable member of Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)?  Last year when the Government cut the subsidy from $60 a tonne to $40 a tonne, the honourable member for Dawson came into the House and made a speech. He said it was delivered with some reluctance. Again he must be very reluctant because at that time he said he was not sure what the promises of the Opposition were. But I can assure him the Opposition promised it would not abolish the subsidy. So I do not know what the Government has against honourable members in seats where sugar is one of the main industries. 
The IAC report was written in 1975 when the sugar industry was prosperous and when the usage by the cereal industry of nitrogenous fertilisers was minimal. Now it is almost a counter argument, but there have been changes in the usage of nitrogenous fertilisers; this highlights the fact that there needs to be another examination of this subsidy and an examination of the usage of nitrogen. For example, I got some figures today which demonstrated that the use of elemental nitrogen in cereal industries had gone up from approximately 32,500 tonnes to over 98,000 tonnes in the past year. 
This Bill is just a bit too much. It breaks a promise which broke an earlier promise. When my Party was in government we did not accept the September 1975 IAC report recommendations. Of course this did not stop the former Minister for Primary Industry and now right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and others from continually claiming that we were always about to abolish it. We maintained the subsidy and were criticised. The Government has been phasing the subsidy out but saying that the Opposition would have had phased it out. I do not know on what basis the Government says that the Opposition would have done that or what hypothetical case it is putting here, other than its usual arrogance. Of course the right honourable member for New England promised to maintain the subsidy if and when re-elected. In a Press release dated 8 May 1 974, the right honourable member said: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party, that in government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounties on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
The Government's record since then is: In the 1977-78 Budget, the Government announced that it would reject the 1975 IAC report and maintain the subsidy of $60 a tonne. In the 1978-79 Budget, the Government further reduced the subsidy from $60 a tonne to $40 a tonne. The $40 a tonne subsidy was to be payable until 31 December 1979. In the mini Budget of 24 May, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  announced that the $40 subsidy would be halved. No information was given on the timing, but after a long period of uncertainty it now emerges that the reduction is to occur next January. 
I know Government members on the back bench can justify anything, but why say what they are going to do, criticise the Government or make untrue allegations about it and look at the interjections in the speech on this measure last year- and then the moment that they come into government pick up the recommendation of the IAC that they have opposed in Opposition? What is this all for? Why are Government members singling out the sugar industry for this treatment? There are five seats involved that are predominantly sugar growing seats and all, except the seat of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  are held by members of the National Country Party. 
I apologise to the honourable member for Herbert. He has given more evidence of this Liberal-National Country Party split. The figures that I have read from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs show that last year some $ 10,4 1 3, 1 32 was spent on the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. This year, the estimate is $7,500,000. So, all this pain is going to be inflicted on the sugar industry in Queensland for a measly $2,913,000. 1 have announced that the Opposition will be opposing this Bill in the third reading in the Committee stage, particularly clause 4. 1 would invite those members from the Queensland country seats to cross the floor. I do not think the Government will fall if five of them cross the floor but the invitation is extended because this Bill will affect their electorates particularly. 
-As I said in my speech in the second reading debate, the Opposition is strongly opposed to this clause. It is the nub of the Bill before us. It reduces the subsidy from $40 to $20 a tonne. I will not take up the time of the Committee. My colleagues the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  have put forward very strong arguments, as well as those I used, why the Opposition feels as it does. I think we should also pay credit to the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  who spoke most eloquently. He put all the facts before honourable members and incorporated a table in  Hansard  which demonstrates admirably the reasons why the Opposition feels that this subsidy should at least remain at $40 a tonne. The Opposition has concentrated on the sugar industry but of course we realise, as the honourable member for Riverina pointed out, the subsidy has particular affects on the cereal industries also. We believe that this matter should be the subject of a fresh Industries Assistance Commission inquiry because, as we pointed out, the price of nitrogenous fertilisers has been rising rapidly. When the sugar industry in particular has been receiving lower prices for its product the subsidy has been coming down. The Government is inconsistent in maintaining the current superphosphate subsidy and not maintaining or adding to the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. 
The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  said that the Government is no longer using the crutch of the IAC report of 1975 as the reason for reducing the subsidy by $20 a tonne. We do not accept this. It seems funny that the subsidy should come down by $20 a tonne year by year as recommended by the IAC. Yet the honourable member for Herbert said that the Government is looking at the situation year by year. If it is, I cannot understand what evidence is before it that would induce it to follow this policy. As we said, the sugar industry has been in trouble. Other areas in the rural sector are enjoying better conditions than they did, but there is no evidence in terms of facts, cost, usage, application or need that could recommend this measure to the Government. We are opposed to clause 4. It is the nub of this Bill. I indicate that we will not divide on the matter because we understand that the Estimates committees are still meeting. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
What are the duties, staff classification and salary ranges of all employees of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights, New South Wales. 
) How many persons are employed in each salary range by the Commission at Lucas Heights. 
My question to the Prime Minister follows directly on the statement just made by the Minister for Industrial Relations. In view of the Government's reluctant decision to consult with the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore, regarding the consultation provisions of the conciliation and arbitration legislation, will the Government delay the Bill in order that talks can be held with the peak councils of the trade union movement? 
-At the outset I must say that I did not know whether to laugh or cry when I was listening to the speech of the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  There would be no prizes for guessing who is the odd one out in terms of Christian principles, Greek democracy, Malcolm Fraser and Professor Henderson. The fact of the matter is, as the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has pointed out, that parts of the Social Service Amendment Bill can only result in further division within Australian society. The legislation will inflict unnecessary misery on many Australians. It will do nothing to improve industrial relations in this country. In fact, it reinforces the Fraser Government's philosophy of union bashing. 
The Social Services Amendment Bill is a further example of the Government's cruel and heartless attitude to the unemployed. The Australian Labor Party supports the general principal that social services legislation should be concerned with the needs of those less fortunate individuals in our society who need government assistance. If the Government wants to cripple union action- I guess there is no need for me to say 'if; it is showing plenty of signs of wanting to do it- it should use industrial measures, not the provisions of the Social Services Act. The social services system is to help people. It has been developed to provide on-going payments to people who cannot work and temporary payments in case of severe hardship. Why is it that this Government is trying to transform this legislation into another anti-strike weapon? This Bill is a divisive and heartless way of making war against the union movement. Whether the Fraser Government likes it or not, it has a responsibility to see that no family or individual lacks food and shelter. 
The Government's proposal, contained in clauses 35 and 42, to allow no payment to families where a worker is stood down though not involved in a strike and even geographically remote from it, is hitting directly at the innocent. However, the Government is not only taking away the right to unemployment benefit; it is even taking away the right to special benefit, a payment made only when a person or family is destitute, without money and without any prospect of raising it. If, for example, a husband and wife are in the same union and the wife voted against strike action and was not involved in it, the family still cannot receive any benefit, even if the breadwinners are supporting children. The only possible help will come from State welfare departments, which have limited emergency funds and which in some States they are unwilling to hand over. The voluntary agencies, already in a state of crisis, will have to find money and food vouchers. The Government has learned nothing from the 1977 four-week Latrobe Valley strike, which threw every welfare organisation into chaos from which they were finally rescued by a joint Commonwealth-State grant of $100,000. The next time there is a widespread strike there will be chaos and hardship for many working Australians. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  is on record in the  Age  of 13 October 1977 urging the Government to reconsider its proposals to stop dole payments to workers who are stood down in a strike and who belong to the same union as the strikers. I would hope that the honourable member takes the same stand now. The Bill provides for a wide definition of trade unions. Even deregistered unions would be covered under this legislation. Postponement of unemployment benefit is entirely at the discretion of the Director-General of Social Services, as is the definition of industrial action, and whether go-slow, work-to-rule or other industrial protests short of strike action constitute action which penalises stood-down employees again is at the discretion of the Director-General. The Myers report on the administration of unemployment benefits recommended:   . . that the Government consider the drafting of an amendment which would relieve the Director-General of the responsibility for interpreting s.107 (c)(i) of the Act by clarifying in this context the terms 'direct participant' and strike '. 
What has happened is the reverse. The DirectorGeneral has been given more responsibility and will determine both the categories affected and the eligibility of stood-down workers remote from the industrial dispute. Clause 41 of the Bill provides for the mandatory postponement of unemployment benefit by the Director-General for a period of not less than six weeks and a maximum of 12 weeks in cases of voluntary unemployment, misconduct of a worker or failure to accept suitable work. This authority in the real world is delegated to junior officers in the Department of Social Security as advised by junior officers in the Commonwealth Employment Service. Compassionate officers, of course, will try to apply the rule sparingly. Unfeeling officers will have powers to deprive people of income which magistrates would use only in severe cases and after a fair trial. The amendment makes the minimum period of postponement six weeks. That works out to be a penalty of $347.40 for a single unemployed person and $579 for a married unemployed person. The maximum period is 12 weeks. The penalty is $694.80 for a single unemployed person and $1,158 for a married couple. 
Let me cite a few examples of how this will work out in my electorate. A young man, who could not stomach cruelty to animals and was intimidated by his employer, left the job voluntarily. Perhaps he could go to a sympathetic officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. What if he could not? There are many examples like this. There are examples of employers standing over individual employees. There is the problem of distance. In my electorate if some people do not have a private car as they move out to these new housing commission areas they cannot get in to work. Is that going to be classified as voluntary unemployment? Are these people going to lose their jobs? What about the matter of health? Lots of people work in a situation where they become diseased. In my electorate, there is one plant where people suffer disease in both hands and feet after a certain time and they leave. Are they going to be classified as voluntarily unemployed? I have got concrete examples of this sort of thing and I could continue in this vein. Unlike many of the honourable members opposite, every day in Werriwa I witness some of the have-nots, the unemployed, the pensioners, and the workers, struggling to meet escalating retail costs. The legislation of this heartless Government will make such people suffer more. 
The Government believes that there are masses of dole bludgers and thousands of jobs to be filled. I have not found this to be the case in my experience in Werriwa. If we look at the latest figures we see that 2,225 youth are unemployed in the Liverpool area and there are 24 job vacancies. There are 4,486 people overall in the Liverpool area and there are 96 job vacancies. In the Campbelltown area 2,818 are unemployed, and there are 218 job vacancies. There are not masses of jobs and there are not masses of dole bludgers. I believe that publicly-supported moves to eliminate those abusing the system have now reached the stage where, without flexibility in administration, thousands of innocent people will be adversely affected. 
This legislation is anti-human and cruel and it will have serious, long-term effects on harmony in our society, and on the wellbeing of less fortunate Australians. I believe that the ideological bias of the Fraser Government is continuing policies that seek to blame the unemployed for unemployment. The magnanimity of the Government was demonstrated in its restoration of a broken promise in this Bill. Automatic twiceyearly indexation of pensions was promised in the 1975 policy speech and in 1977 by the Liberal and National Country Party. It was introduced in the 1976 Budget from 1 November 1976. It was reduced to annual indexation in the 1978 Budget from 1 November in that year. In the 1979-80 Budget- the one presently before the House- the Government decided that twiceyearly adjustments to pensions would be restored due to unexpected high rates of inflation. 
However, if that is the reason, does the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  intend restoring some measure of justice to our elderly and disadvantaged citizens by making retrospective adjustments to pensions due to the Government's miscalculation of the rate of inflation? Of course, the answer is no. Each single pensioner lost about $60 and each married pensioner couple lost $ 100 when they were deprived of the May 1979 indexation rise. Automatic twice-yearly indexation has been reintroduced under pressure from the Opposition, the back bench and the public. Perhaps this is because the inflation figure is now 10 per cent rather than the 5 per cent for which the Government aimed but never reached. 
As  Mrs Irene  Ellis, Secretary of the Australian Pensioners Federation commented: 
Justice delayed is justice denied. 
The level of unemployment benefit for recipients under the age of 1 8 years, without dependants, has remained at the 1975 levels. In March 1979 59,100 young Australians were suffering the difficulties of surviving on such a miserly benefit. There is a fair amount of hypocrisy when one hears some of the comments of the Government Ministers and back benchers about the adequacy of this provision. If we compare that to a Minister's overnight travel allowance we see that it is more than a week's unemployment benefit. The conservative myth is that if an unemployment benefit is low enough people will work; they will automatically find work. They will have to in order to survive. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently suggested that unemployment was linked to duller, lessmotivated people. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  also said that we should provide other options for young people to make unemployment in the sense of idleness at the community's expense an unacceptable alternative. 
Now with an average of 22 unemployed people for every job vacancy it clearly does not matter how motivated all these people are since there just are not enough jobs to go around. Blaming the victim will not change that fact. Enforced unemployment cannot be interpreted as idleness, nor as fun. The costs of unemployment are being seen in depression, psychiatric illness, suicide, homelessness, family breakdown, alcoholism, crime and an unemployment bill of approximately $980m per year. Benefits should be increased from below the poverty line level. Man cannot subsist on the pursuit of education and vain hope for something better. 
Despite facts like these concerning the plight of the unemployed- the have-nots in our society- this malevolent Government is presenting legislation in the guise of social services which will make it even harder for people to obtain an unemployment benefit. My electorate is a welfare electorate. Thousands of young people with no prospect of employment are regularly attending the Community Youth Support Schemes. I am told that 1 5 per cent of young people in one part of my electorate are already classified as chronic delinquents. Up to 20 per cent to 25 per cent of some parts of the electorate consist of single parent families. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table from the Department of Social Security showing some of the problems of that electorate. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Taken from Department of Social Security- Recipients of pensions, benefits and family allowances in postcode districts and electoral divisions, NSW-ACT; June 1978. 
I thank the Minister. Families at risk in this country need economic and social justice to prevent crisis situations which so often occur unnecessarily. This Government fails to realise that high percentages of welfare recipients and low income earners are poverty stricken. This legislation, the Social Services Amendment Bill, does very little to alleviate that situation. If we are not successful in mobilising human resources and skills present in every community to assist those in need, the divisions within our society, exacerbated by the Fraser Government at every turn, can only be augmented. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Has he stated, publicly, at any time during 1979, that 400,000 persons have been assisted by his Government's various schemes for the unemployed; if so, 
to what schemes was he referring, 
how many persons have benefited from each scheme and 
to what period was he referring. 
I was somewhat amazed by the comments of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore).  I appreciate that the Opposition has a fundamental, philosophic objection to the measure before the House, and that was expressed in our Bills when we brought them in in 1974. The honourable member for Ryan talked about co-operation, self-regulation and hope. I gained the impression that if we were to dream along and drift along, and all had honest motives, this problem would solve itself in the long run. The honourable member also mentioned risk-taking. I would like to point out that what is worrying us is that it seems to us to be the shareholders who are taking the risks, not so much the directors. The whole problem is that there has been so much evidence of manipulation. There was not just the abuses of the 1970 share boom. There has been so much evidence of manipulation since and it continues. There is simply so much evidence of a need for strong companies and securities legislation. I stand fully behind the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen). 
This Bill is not really the main approach that the Government will take in this whole area- it simply sets up the National Companies and Securities Commission- but it gives us a chance to speak in general terms. So a national companies and securities commission Bill comes before the Parliament once more. The last one was talked to death in the Senate, after all the evidence put before a Senate committee. Bills were brought in by  Senator Murphy,  as he was then, but were referred to another Senate committee. The matter was talked to death before the general election in 1975. In fact June 1979 was the 20th anniversary of the first meeting of State and Federal Ministers to talk about the terms of a uniform companies law. They agreed on a model Bill within a couple of years but, as we all know, the approach did not work out in the longer run. In spite of the hard work by the Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General since the late 1950s, the work of the Eggleston Committee between 1967 and 1972, and the so-called Rae Committee's efforts from 1970 to 1974, we really are as far away as ever from effective, unified regulation of corporations and the securities industry. The latest variation on the previous approach, devised under the banner of cooperative federalism, will bring us no closer to these objectives, let alone provide us with a model to stand the test of time. 
The Australian Labor Party has a very strong view on the need for national laws on securities and exchange and companies. We are opposed to this later mealy-mouthed version of uniform legislation. Our amendment clearly sets out our objectives and,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The amendment read as follows- 

That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House: 
expresses its concern at the Government's apparent abdication of its responsibility to make national laws for corporations and the securities industry pursuant to the Commonwealth's own constitutional powers, and in accordance with the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange in 1974 (the Rae Report); 
notes that the proposed legislative scheme places uniformity before reform, and creates both the danger and the likelihood that lowest common donominator standards will prevail; 
expresses its concern at the lack of effective accountability of the proposed Commission to either the Government or Parliament of the Commonwealth, or to any other single elected Government or Parliament; 
expresses its views that the Bill should be improved by redrafting it to provide for 
an extension of the scope and enforceability of its financial interest provisions; 
a requirement that hearings of the Commission be normally held in public; 
the establishment of the proposed Companies and Securities Law Review Committee on a firm statutory basis; 
the establishment on a firm statutory basis of an Accounting Standards Review Committee; and 
the explicit prescription of the matters on which the Commission must annually report; 
while acknowledging that pursuant to the scheduled Agreement any such proposed amendment may need to be the subject of consultation with the Ministerial Council before final acceptance by the Government, nonetheless insists upon this Parliament's right to properly scrutinise and amend all legislation put before it by the Executive; and 
calls upon the Government, in the event of the break down for any reason of the scheme embodied in the Bill, to immediately proceed to the introduction of Commonwealth legislation for the national regulation of corporations and the securities industry'. 
I thank the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  Before the new system can start, there must be legislative action by no fewer than eight parliaments and by 14 houses of parliament overall. I do not think that I have to elaborate on the scope there for someone, somewhere, to decide that now is not the right time for this type of action. In any event, I do not believe that this scheme will achieve the basic requirement of reform in this area of law. Once implemented it will achieve legislative uniformity but not much else. The weakest legislation of any State will prevail. Companies will simply exploit any weakness; that is the way of the corporate world. 
But the new scheme will not even achieve uniformity of administration. Let me remind the House of the basic structure envisaged. There will be a ministerial council giving broad policy directives to a national companies and securities commission which will confine its actions to matters of a 'national' character. The corporate affairs machinery of the States will remain in being and will continue to do most of the things that they do now. That is not the way to uniform administration. That is why the Labor Party continues to press for a firm initiative on the part of the national Government. We do not want to see the operation of eight sets of controls. We do not want to see eight capital markets in this country. There is one national market, just as there is one national economy. There should be one effective uniform set of controls. 
The constitutional authority of the national Government to act in this way is not in question so far as the securities industry is concerned. It is important to revitalise our economy in the capital market as we approach one of the most important periods of change in our history. The full restoration of investor confidence is critically important to the most effective operation of the capital market in this country. There is the idea now of self-regulation for the securities industry and, quite frankly, I think it is now generally accepted that self-regulation has had its day. It did not work well enough when there was the climate for it to be accepted and it is too late to try again. And the Rae Committee clearly spelt that out. 
The ALP is firmly committed to the principle that there should be national companies and securities legislation and that the legislation should be administered by an independent statutory commission. The commission would obviously be one of the most important authorities in Australia and would need to bring together within its professional staff people of outstanding ability, expertise and understanding- and here, of course, I agree with the honourable member for Ryan. The ALP is not necessarily tied to the detailed provisions of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill that we introduced in 1974 and which died in the Senate, although the thrust of what we were aiming at then was in keeping with our basic approach. In 1974, the need was demonstrated by the extent of public concern at the rampant abuses and patently corrupt practices which had been revealed in certain parts of the industry. The need is now demonstrated just as clearly by the suspicious reservations of the small to medium investors. So far as the present Government's approach is concerned, we believe that it will create unnecessary duplication and red tape. 
When former  Senator Murphy,  now  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy, moved in the Senate on 19 March 1970 for the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, he referred to the series of company crashes that had occurred in the 1960s and to the widespread evidence of improper practices during the speculative boom in mining shares in the late 1960s andhe specu early 1970s. He drew attention then to the fact that members of the public had been induced by false rumours to buy shares, that insider trading was rife and that selfregulative bodies seemed either powerless or unwilling to act to protect the public against those market abuses and the many other market abuses that were prevalent at the time. 
I have heard it said that the boom time in which these market abuses prevailed is over and that there is no point now in introducing legislation which will merely lock the stable door after the horse has bolted. It would be irresponsible for any government to base policies on such a short-sighted view. The need remains for effective legislation which will, so far as is practicable, prevent a recurrence of such abuses at any time in the future. But since the so-called boom and the Rae Committee's report, and during the dithering and delaying by the Government, other companies have gone to the wall, costing individual investors thousands of dollars and the economy millions of dollars. I need only to instance the most recent ones: Cambridge Credit, Associated Securities Ltd, Gollin; and so it goes on. It is not as if there has been just a once and for all abuse of the share market; it continues. I remind the House of the abuses referred to in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I know that it was presented a long time ago but the evidence today is as strong as it ever was. That report was very carefully prepared. I do not think former  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was a tearing radical; nor is  Senator Rae.  I quote one paragraph from the summary of that report: 
We discovered numerous instances of improper practices in the making of new issues, and in the distribution of previously issued shares. There has been considerable evidence of insider trading, manipulation and other abuse in the stockmarkets. We have seen much evidence of behaviour among sharebrokers, other intermediaries and advisers in the securities industry and some financial journalists which has fallen short of minimum standards of propriety, competence and financial responsibility. 
I was not going to mention that. The chapter and paragraph headings reflect the findings of the rogues free to plunder- a horse race without stewards. For example, a few of the chapter headings are: 'Use of the Financial Press', 'Who were the real managers of the company funds', 'The role of Patrick and Company', 'The construction of a non-physical presence', 'The multiple roles of Patrick and Company's trading account', and 'Conflicts of a State Exchange  Chairman'.  After the tabling of the report,  Mr Dowling  of Patrick Partners said: 
It's very academic . . . There's not much importance about what the Committee thinks about actions taken in the heat of the boom. 
That was the comment of one person named in the report, and that was after 12,000 pages of evidence and four years of inquiry. It took the report of the Masterman inquiry set up by the New South Wales Liberal Government and carried out by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission, through  Mr Masterman,  to show how academic  Mr Dowling  and Patrick Partners were in their actions. I think the best newspaper summary by responsible and concerned people at the time of the tabling of the Rae Committee's report was that of Claude Forrel of the Melbourne  Age.  In part, he said: 
The Rae report has exposed a mass of fraud, dishonesty and negligence by stockbrokers and company directors on a scale that staggers the imagination. 
Exploiting a boom founded on falseness, filled with fantasy and inflated by greed, they systematically swindled hundreds of thousands of Australian and overseas investors out of millions of dollars. 
So wild was the fever of speculation they deliberately kindled that even honest brokers and harassed officials felt powerless to arrest the festering dishonesty on which it was based. 
And what protection did our State politicians offer us at that time? Damned little. They were too busy crowing about the splendour of a boom built on shonky snares in the delusion that paper profits are the same as mineral wealth. 
Oh, yes, the young ruffian who swipes a little old lady's handbag on the street corner can expect swift retribution in Pentridge. 
But where is the shady company promoter, the snide share pusher, the smart market rigger and the sly stockbroker who have cheated a multitude of small investors out of their life savings? 
Chances are that they are still in business, even if business is not so good at present. And if things get a little too hot for comfort there is always Rio to fly to, a Swiss bank account to draw on and a Brazilian mistress to lie with. 
Yet, the Liberal-National Country Party Government now wants to introduce only this trifling, insipid, weak legislation. By any measure, the evidence put before us by the Rae Committee's report shows how clearly there is a need for national legislation. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange clearly showed and recommended the need for the securities industry to be subject to national legislation rather than legislation of individual States and Territories. The report made it clear that the securities industry functions on an Australia-wide basis and that control on any other basis is bound to be inadequate. The requirements of the law and the administrative procedures should be the same throughout Australia. The persons responsible for the administration of such legislation must have direct access to information in all parts of Australia. In addition, there is the consideration that there are many large corporations operating across the Australian continent for which the need to comply with the requirements of separate State and Territory laws involves pointless frustration and unnecessary costs. 
One of the problems we have had with company and securities law in Australia has been that the need for changes in the law has occurred more rapidly than the responsible legislatures have been able to make these changes. It is becoming increasingly evident that it is just not enough to have an expert committee examine certain aspects of company or securities law once in every 15 to 20 years or so. There is a need, which was recognised long ago in the United States, and in the first interim report of the Eggleston Committee, for an expert body with continuity of existence to be charged with a responsibility for seeing that the laws are kept up to date at all times. No such body is proposed in the legislation before us. There is also a need for a preventative approach. The experiences of recent years have made it clear that it is not sufficient for legislation in respect of securities to prescribe rules and provide remedies that are available when those rules are broken. All too often the remedies prove to be worthless, either because the trail of the offender is well covered or because he has placed his assets beyond the reach of the persons who have been defrauded. There is a need for more emphasis to be given to the prevention of fraudulent conduct. There needs to be provision for the establishment of a strong administrative agency which will have access to relevant information and effective powers to intervene where intervention appears to be desirable. 
I again come to the matter of self-regulation. The management of a stock exchange in Australia is in the hands of a committee elected from its members. The committee has responsibility for a range of matters, including the admission of new members, the disciplining of members who act improperly and the listing of securities to be traded on the market of the exchange. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange found that in the discharge of those regulatory responsibilities the stock exchanges in Australia had been seriously wanting. Criticism of the stock exchange committees should not overlook the fact that the committees perform very valuable functions. But there is a need for the committees to be brought under some degree of surveillance by an official body representing the public interest generally. In the United States of America this has been recognised. The Securities and Exchange Commission has been given what has been described as a 'looking-over-the-shoulder' role; that is to say, the immediate day-to-day management of an exchange remains with that exchange but the Commission is responsible for ensuring that the rules of the exchange are satisfactory, that those rules are properly enforced and that generally the exchange is conducted with due regard to the interests of the public. 
The stock market of a stock exchange is like any other market in the sense that it is a place where the public may buy a commodity, in this case securities of corporations. The public needs protection, as it does in any other market, and the protection should be provided by appropriate laws coupled with a strong administrative agency representative of the public interest. There is also a need for prompt and adequate disclosure by corporations. Legislation cannot protect the individual against his folly or lack of judgment in the making of investments in securities but there is a need, which the legislation should recognise, to ensure that the investor has access to information which is both relevant and up to date. It should not be overlooked that the funds of public companies come from the public. These are not the pressure of directors of those companies. Relevant information should not be regarded as the exclusive property of the controllers of such companies. In particular, there is a need for the financial position of a company to be properly disclosed in its accounts, for information concerning matters significantly affecting a company's prospects to be promptly made available and for the identity of the persons beneficially entitled to major shareholdings to be ascertainable. 
The report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange disclosed a number of undesirable market practices. Practices such as market manipulation, insider trading, short selling and dealing in undesirable conflict of interest situations, to name a few, are referred to in the report. They need to be dealt with effectively by the legislation if public confidence is to be restored in our stock markets. It is also clear from the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- if it was not clear before the report- that there is a need for prospectuses by which the public is to be invited to contribute funds towards companies to be subjected before issue to a more thorough examination by the administering authorities than has been the case. 
The lack of adequate investigation into prospectuses during the boom years plainly led to millions of dollars being subscribed by the investing public for worthless ventures. Apart from the inevitable losses to the individuals concerned, this involved a substantial misallocation of the country's resources. One of the things that grieves me about this is that the lay public think that some of the companies are shonky. It is not the companies that are shonky but the practices on the stock exchanges. I name Poseidon Ltd as one example of this occurring. Finally, there is a need for appropriate investigatory powers. If one thing has been made clear in recent years, it has been that the existing methods of investigating the activities of companies and the conduct of their officers is altogether too ponderous. All too often reports that are made following investigation do little more than provide a record for history. It is of the utmost importance that company investigations be made in good time and that they be no longer impeded by the irrelevancy of State boundaries. It is for all the reasons that I have outlined that the Opposition is so dissapointed in this legislation. Rogues will be just as free to plunder the private savings of individuals as they ever were. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1 979: 
What is the ownership of each of the private health funds in Australia. 
How are the boards of management of each of the private health funds in Australia chosen and how often do they face election. 
) Who votes for (a) the boards of management and (b) the executives, of each of the private health funds in Australia. 
-The many people listening to this very important debate must be rather mystified by the comments of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The matter of public importance raised by the Opposition is the increasing rate of inflation resulting from government policies. What we have received from the Treasurer has been a diatribe. He has been playing politics. But above all else, even on the day when he receives information that the consumer price index for the September quarter is down a little- we are talking about the annual rate of inflation, not the rate for one quarter- he has an argument presented to him, dropped in his lap, and he seeks to divert the attention of the House from the matter under question, namely the increasing rate of inflation, to the question of oil prices. In other words, he is not prepared to debate the issue we have raised before the House. He seems somehow to think that the only policy that adds to the rate of inflation is the oil prices policy. There are many other government policies which add to the rate of inflation. It is the full bucket of policies that the Opposition wants to talk about. It seems ridiculous for the Treasurer to talk for the whole time just on oil prices. 
Let us examine some of his arguments on that point. In 1973-74 the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased prices but the Labor Government which was in power then did not automatically jump onto the bandwagon of the OPEC price rises. Australia was saved from some increase in the rate of inflation at that time by the Labor Government's policy. In another argument the Treasurer said that by international comparisons Australia has been going all right in some areas. Perhaps one of the reasons for that is that Australia has 70 per cent independence with its own oil reserves. There is no easy answer but we say that we should maximise the benefits of the assets that we hold, and that we should make a sustained attempt to look at the oil pricing policy and the whole question of energy usage in this country. 
As everyone knows, the Opposition in this country has a far more comprehensive, better balanced policy on energy than the Government. Every time the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  gets up he demonstrates that quite clearly. We need to talk about mandatory fuel consumption policies, overall energy consumption policies, the provision of better urban transport services, the placing of more accent on the use of alternative fuel resources, the imposition of discriminatory sales taxes, the use of our gas reserves and the stripping of liquids. There are 100 things we can talk about in terms of energy instead of concentrating on the OPEC price as the only policy in the Government's armoury with respect to oil prices. All we say is that we should just break the link with OPEC countries. We are not going to sit around waiting for some government to change in some country and for some unilateral action to occur and then automatically follow that situation. It is up to us to determine our oil prices, given the fact that we have reserves, given the fact that we have assets in the energy area and given the fact that we have some control. We just want to break that link. I do not think every other country that imports oil has automatically latched on to this import parity price with the OPEC price. 
-Australia has alternatives. They need to be worked through and thought through instead of this automatic latching on to the OPEC price as the above all parameter. Anyhow, I shall return to the point of the matter of public importance which has been raised today. Since coming to office the Government has supposedly followed a policy of fighting inflation first. That is the terminology it uses. Part of this policy is an obsession with the level of the deficit. What the Government has done through following these policies is to ignore its own price increasing policies. That is what the Opposition wanted to highlight today. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  did that very ably. The Government has used its obsession and its policy approach of fighting inflation first as an excuse for not doing anything about the level of unemployment, particularly the rising rate of youth unemployment. It has used the same sorts of arguments every time it has gone before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with respect to wages. Yet, as the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says that wages have been neutral. The Government has used these sorts of arguments to justify its policy which it does not talk about; that is, profits ahead of people. 
Whilst the Government has used this obsession and policy approach of inflation first, it has been following policies which have added to inflation. That is the contradiction which we wish to point out. Yet it keeps up this propaganda blanket of the deficit. The deficit has been propelled by this Government into a position where it is seen as something not to be analysed, but as something that is given. Because there is no analysis of the deficit, the Government believes that it can get away with deliberately inflationary policies so long as the deficit is relatively small or smaller. If the deficit inconveniently blows out, that is, if it gets bigger than it was supposed to, then the Government simply turns a blind eye to the non-occurrence of some events which follow from a larger deficit. Thus the Government has been able to get away with policies which reduce deficits, but do so by adding to revenue and feeding or fuelling inflation. 
Let us have a look at some of these policies. This year the oil price policy will add about 2.25 per cent to the rate of inflation. This feeds through to industry. Also, as I pointed out a moment ago, if OPEC suddenly makes a decision to raise the oil price by 10 per cent as it did last week, if a government changes and if unilateral action is taken, people have inflationary expectations. I know that the ordinary person in my electorate who has to travel up to 30 or 40 miles to work each day and who buys petrol for his car is worried. I know that the person who travels by bus is worried. These people have inflationary worries. In other words, they have inflationary expectations. They, too, wish for higher wages to compensate for that position to some extent. The new health insurance scheme will add about 1  Vi  per cent, including doctors' fees, to the rate of inflation. The Government's measures in relation to cigarettes, tobacco and alcohol will increase inflation by about 1  Vi  per cent. The Prices Justification Tribunal has been virtually scrapped. The effect of the Government's flowthrough policy in respect of State and local government has been to increase charges. There has been the Government's taxation policies, and finally its exchange rate policies. All these policies have been hidden behind this great blanket of the deficit, and we wish to put them out into the open. 
Over the past two years devaluation has been at the level of about 20 per cent. On this latter point about the exchange rate, I point out that one of the greatest increases has been in the price of materials used in manufacturing industry. I have the figures before me. In the year to July prices increased by 36.5 per cent. That is three times the rate of a year ago. The last time there was a very high percentage increase in this area was in January 1975 and the inflation rate that followed from that was about 16 per cent. There was a lag of about six months. With increases of something like 36 per cent or 40.5 per cent, which is another figure, what will the inflation rate be in six months' time? Surely this must cause the Government worry. The prices of materials produced by manufacturing industry have increased by 16.7 per cent in the year to August. The prices of building materials for housing have gone up by 1 1.4 per cent to September. Other building materials are up by 1 1.7 per cent. If we look at the implicit deflaters in the Australian national accounts, we see that just about all of them were higher in the June quarter than they were a year ago. With respect to prices in manufacturing industry, it has been said that the price of items such as beef has had a distorting effect on the index. But the import component in this industry has a larger effect. As the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, an impost of 2 per cent is payable on some items that were formerly non-dutiable.  
We need to realise that the rate of inflation internationally is on the way up and that we are locked into it to a quite marked degree. For example, in the United States it is now calculated that the rate of inflation will be something like 1 4 per cent or 1 5 per cent in the coming year. Unless we are prepared to vary our exchange rate we are locked into this international basket of currencies, particularly in relation to the United States dollar. I realise that there are political difficulties in implementing a policy of revaluation but the Government is unable to take any appropriate action due to National Country Party pressure. The same set of forces locked the Government into inappropriate measures in the early 1970s. Together with the monetary expansion of that period, those measures were largely responsible for the rate of inflation in 1973 and 1974. 
In total, the policies of the Government have led the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research to forecast that the real take-home pay of the average wage earner will be lower by 4 per cent in real terms in 1979-80 than it was two years ago in 1977-78. Therefore inflation and unemployment will be worse in 1979-80. It is a deliberate Government policy to reduce real wages, to reduce the amount of take-home pay and to increase prices and charges. Yet either it blames the OPEC countries or it says that we have to keep the deficit down. It is those matters on which the Opposition wishes to focus. The fact is that we face an increase, a surge in the rate of inflation during the coming months, and the Government is not following appropriate policies. It is simply using blinds to disguise its real actions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Has he made extensive use of the company, Enterprise Colorvideo, for the production of his addresses to the nation. 
Was this company assisted out of receivership in June 1978 by a $245,000loan from the Australian Film Commission. 
Has the producer of these addresses to the nation for Enterprise Colorvideo been given an $89,000 contract for production of the Special Broadcasting Service's pilot 1 3-week ethnic television program. 
Did he introduce this producer to the Special Broadcasting Service as the person most competent to make ethnic television services. 
In view of his statement on Sunday, 29 April 1979, that he would be taking a close personal interest in the Special Broadcasting Service, will he provide details of his links with this television production company and its associates. 
-This is an Estimates debate of sorts about a most fiercely contractionary, wrong and bad Budget. I think this debate in itself is a bit of an abomination and I concur particularly with the criticisms of the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I suppose that I will spend five minutes of my meagre 10 minutes of speaking time talking about the process we are engaged in, rather than getting down to what I would like to talk about. But as the Estimates committees have been an experiment and an innovation I think we need to talk about them a little. By and large I lack the eloquence of the honourable member for Bonython. I do not have many objections to the House of Representatives Estimates committees but I think that there is a lot of room for improvement. We also ought to have a decent debate in this House. We cannot deal with 17 departments in one sitting. About half of us will want to speak in the debate. Each of us will have only 10 minutes in which to speak on all those 17 departments. 
I realise full well that scrutiny, efficiency, accountability, et cetera of the Government's departments are the order of the day. The public is demanding that there be more attention paid to this. We have Senate Estimates committees, Expenditure committees and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. As a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I would like to say that I am a little alarmed that its role is being supplanted by other bodies in the Parliament, It seems to me that the Public Accounts Committee has been there all along and it should be given more powers. Be that as it may, it seemed to me that the House of Representatives Estimates committees amounted to a question without notice session to Ministers, or more generally to a retinue of first assistant secretaries. 
I realise, as the honourable member for Prospect says, that they know more than the Ministers. The meeting is held in committee rooms out of the glare of publicity. 
It is not like here. I am now talking to two policemen, two attendants and a lady. For example, one of the questions that we could have raised with the Department of Primary Industry concerned the beef incentive payments scheme. We could have raised a few more questions with the departmental officers on that matter, but it is already before the Public Accounts Committee. The process of that got that scheme before the Public Accounts Committee was that the Auditor-General had pointed to its problems. The Public Accounts Committee then examined the comments by the Auditor-General and we then decided to make that scheme the subject of an inquiry. We called for evidence, heard the witnesses and had long sessions with the Department and  all  the people concerned. By that process we effected scrutiny and accountability and eventually, I hope, we will get to the nub of what went wrong with that scheme and what deficiencies were in it. If honourable members really want to examine things they have to go through that process and examine them in detail. 
I do not think that we have learnt a lot from the Estimates committees. I am not knocking the idea completely but there is need for improvement. When honourable members take on a department like the Department of Defence- a handful of us were there for a couple of hoursthe questions are so general that the answers do not mean anything. If the questions got very specific, far too much time was taken up in reply. 
One can argue for ever on some of these matters and keep up the inquiry forever. I want more time in this House, not in the less public committees where I can be snowed by public servants or where I can be persuaded to accept the consensus view. It is communist countries which have governing bureaucracies. We have a parliamentary democracy of sorts and it is up to honourable members to make sure that that system prevails. The reason I am here is to carry forward the views of the people I represent and the views of the Party I represent. I am not here simply to ask technical questions. I think that I am here to surface the views held by the community, even if those views are often very wrong. If my views are very wrong I think it is important that those views are surfaced and spoken about publicly rather than that they be put before rather private committees. Having wasted some of my time, what I really want to talk about is the Department of Primary Industry. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I wish to spend the rest of my time discussing the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. Overall the estimates for this year represented a cut of about 20 per cent in real terms in rural spending. The chief cuts were with respect to nitrogenous fertilisers and the reconstruction funds, which were cut by about 63 per cent, as well as the 37 per cent cut in meat research and the cut of about $9m in wool research funds. On top of that there were the measures in the May mini-Budget which particularly disadvantaged the cattle industry. The Government uses the excuse that the rural industries are going through a good time at present and can well afford these measures. 
I am not going to criticise these measures in detail, but I would like to point out with respect to the Department of Primary Industry that the total figures, in terms of government commitments, do not always mean that much because lots of payments are made by farmers into and out of rural funds. Often the aggregates involved have a distorting effect on some of the Treasury estimates with respect to the deficit and monetary measures. What I would like to say in general terms is that I would be more critical of the fact that over the last four years the Government has not taken the initiatives that it could have taken in some areas of the rural area without involving itself in much expenditure. In contradistinction to that, I would like to point out how pleased I was to see that the Government did take a very important initiative- that is, the one it took in respect of storage facilities for grain, hay and fodder. Since about 1973 on-farm facilities for the storage of grain, hay and fodder have been subject to depreciation in the usual way. That was increased in this Budget by the Government bringing into play a special depreciation allowance of an additional 20 per cent. 
In analysing the impact of that I suppose the first thing that we have to talk about is whether wheat crops of the order of 18 million tonnes a year will continue in the future or whether the long-run average crops will be even greater than that. Over the last few years we have seen that there has been a particular problem in the handling of grain, in storage and in transport facilities. The Government is to be complimented for seeing this and trying to do something about it. The problem has been that the first advance for grain is paid at acceptance into storage. When so much of the grain could not be accepted in the last few years there was a real problem. 
Private storage worries the bulk handling authorities, particularly in respect of insect infestation. If individual producers are to produce bigger crops on their farms it is important that alternative measures be taken. I understand that the scheme really has not been spelt out. The Australian Wheat Board will have to vet the quality of the storage facilities. I am quite sure that they will be mainly for grains. The estimate is for expenditure of $6m this year but I think that a figure of $60m would be closer to it because there is a great need in this area. 
The importance of this matter was highlighted in the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the wheat industry when it took a lot of evidence from the various bulk handling authorities. By and large the bulk handling and storage of wheat is a mess in this country. Quite a bit of Government action is needed. If the Commonwealth Government tries to deal with this matter it will present problems because each State is different. Each State has State accountability, which raises another complex question. In South Australia and Western Australia the storage of grains is handled by co-operatives financed by farmers and the storage has tended to be concentrated on the seaboard. There has been some criticism of that. It has also been said that perhaps there has been over-investment. We really do not know about that. South Australia and Western Australia raise their own funds and the farmers pay. In Queensland, the storage is vested with the Wheat Board. The Queensland grain industry, whether it be coarse grains or wheat, is the most efficient in many ways. The grain is grown in one contiguous area. But the rail link to the seaboard and the terminals themselves are somewhat deficient. There is need for investment in that area. 
There is a different situation in New South Wales and Victoria, which have bulk handling authorities. The in-loading capacity at Geelong in Victoria is deficient, and the out-loading capacity of the facility at Portland is deficient. In New South Wales the situation is even more complicated by rail problems. The Hunter Valley has the problem of the freighting out of coal. We really do not know whether there should be more terminals in New South Wales, such as a terminal at Botany Bay, or more sub-terminals. The point that I would like to make is that the States need to do more rigorous studies of the problems they face in this area before they come to the Commonwealth Government. Each State situation is different. Eventually the Commonwealth Government will get involved to a degree greater than the first step with respect to the depreciation allowance. If the problems are looked at in depth by the States and they then come to the Commonwealth, I think the argument will be overwhelming for the Commonwealth eventually to be involved financially in this area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 October 1979:  ( 1 )Did he make a statement at the inaugural session of the United Nations Committee on Disarmament on 24 January 1979 in which he said that arms control and disarmament are the greatest problems facing the world today. 
Will the Government do more to make the Australian community aware of the dangers of the arms race and the overwhelming need for world disarmament. 
Has he considered the publication and distribution of a Disarmament Kit similar to the Human Rights Kit which the Government is publishing for use by educational institutions and community groups. 
What activities does he have in mind to indicate the Government's commitment to the cause of disarmament for United Nations Disarmament Week, commencing on 24 October 1979. 
As Australia is now a member of the United Nations Committee on Disarmament, is it intended that our delegation advocate the establishment of a National Advisory Council to involve non-government and other organisations interested in promoting the cause of disarmament. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1) Were provisions in the Public Service Act relating to the rights of public servants to comment on public issues abolished or qualified in 1 974. 
If so, what guidelines were circulated within Commonwealth departments as a result of the change in the Act. 
Has the Public Service Board had reason to draw the changed Act to the attention of officers who have commented publicly on issues within the Government 's control. 
Have any officers been (a) charged, (b) dismissed, (c) reprimanded or (d) disadvantaged in any way as a result of public comment since the change in the Act. 
If so, how many officers have been affected and what was the nature of the breach of the Act and the reasoning of the Board in each instance. 
What interpretation or guidelines does the Public Service Board put forward as a result of the effects of the changed Act, for example, (a) is an officer working in the Department of Health deemed to be in breach of the Act if he/she comments publicly on a specific defence issue or (b) is an officer working in any department, other than the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, deemed to be in breach of the Act if he/she comments publicly on the current levels of unemployment. 
Does the Public Service Board regard an officer as being in breach of the Act where he/she publicly criticises the Government's action or performance in an area where the officer has no privileged knowledge of the issue as a result of his/her employment, where his/her own Department/Minister is not criticised and where the officer has not identified himself/herself as a public servant. 
Does the Public Service Board regard an officer as being in breach of the Act if he/she publicly criticises a political party which forms the government of the day. 
Under what circumstances would the Public Service Board view an officer as not being in breach of the Act where criticism of his/her Department was concerned, for example, are officers regarded as being in breach of the Act where criticism of Departmental actions is given in evidence to Parliamentary Committees. 
10) Does the Public Service Board regard an officer as being in breach of the Act if he/she addresses meetings on political topics not associated in any way with his/her departmental duties. 
-The Committee is considering the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4), which is another move to counter income tax avoidance practices such as the Curran scheme which have benefited the participants by $ 1,400m. The Government of the day has provided for a discussion on this Bill and six other Bills two speakers, one of whom spent 20 minutes on a general measure- not related to the legislation under consideration, but on flat tax- and the other  speaker  took three minutes. There are no other members of the Government present in the House bar the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is sitting at the table and the Government Whip. I think this is an absolute scandal. All these measures together represent an impost on the Australian taxpaying public of $ 1,100m due to two more broken promises. Yet the Government does not even provide the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to take the legislation through the chamber. As I said, there have been only two Government speakers. One spoke for 20 minutes and the other spoke for three minutes. There have been two speakers from the Opposition side. It is absolute nonsense. 
These seven Bills are technical Bills. The Loan (Income Equalisation Deposits) Amendment Bill alone requires a full debate. It is a very technical measure indeed. Farmers' incomes have to be adjusted and they will have to make changes in respect of the income averaging scheme. The income equalisation deposit measures require a full blown debate. The other Bills affect every wage and salary earner in Australia. This Government is ramming this legislation- seven Bills- through this place after about an hour's debate on the second reading. This is absolute nonsense. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 4) contains further measures to counter income tax avoidance practices which the Treasurer had previously tried to counter with Bills such as this one. We are always in a situation of the dog chasing its tail in respect of tax avoidance schemes and the closing of loopholes. Part of these measures relates to this notorious Curran scheme which has been estimated to be worth $ 1,400m per annum to its participants and a loss of $700m per annum to revenue. Other estimates of the losses to revenue through all taxation avoidance schemes range from $500m to $2,000m per annum. My colleague the Honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  has already outlined some of those to the Committee. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  first of all introduced a Bill in April 1978 to deal with the Curran scheme, with provisions retrospective to the previous Budget date of 16 August 1977. It is a pity that so much of the debate on the Bill was about the principal of retrospectivity. I have no love for tax dodgers. We simply have to bite the. bullet on retrospectivity and not agonise about it. Within months of that Bill of April 1978 being assented to, it was learned that the provisions could again be circumvented. After the Treasurer had made a further statement on the distressing way the Bill was being trammelled this Bill has now come to light again. The Treasurer announced concern in September/October 1978 and again in March 1979. The Bill was introduced then and was given time for a discussion to ensue about it, but it was not debated in this place. It was not debated as a separate Bill and we now find that a couple of speakers will have 10 minutes each in which to speak. It is an absolute nonsense. 
The basic elements of the Curran scheme are that taxpayers who seek to be treated as share traders can artificially create a tax deductible loss which can then be offset against their normal taxable income. For example, a person can pay $190,000 for shares with a face value of $10,000 and after accumulated profits attaching to those shares have been capitalised by the issue of bonus shares to a face value of $ 190,000 the total parcel of shares is sold for $195,000. Under a Curran scheme the person claims to have incurred a loss of $185,000 whilst in commercial terms a profit of $5,000 has in fact been made. These schemes can be used by a taxpayer to create whatever loss is required to eliminate tax liability completely. So it can be seen that originally the Curran schemes depended for their success on a non-taxable issue of bonus shares. 
The modified schemes which this Bill is out to cut off introduced a variation that the bonus issue is paid out of a share premium account created solely for the purpose of the scheme instead of out of capital profit reserves. The Government has been advised that the modified schemes are caught by the original Curran amendments introduced last year. But the Treasurer has said that the Government cannot afford to take the risk that the modified schemes will be upheld in the courts, hence the new amendments. This raises a very important point. In March this year a Full Bench of the Federal Court of Australia ruled against the Taxation Office which brought a case against a company which successfully used section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act as a dodge to turn profits into tax losses. The Court ruled in favour of a company which turned a profit of $238,000 into a tax loss of $3,593. The Government acted in May 1977 to close the loopholes of section 36a which became a boon to share traders and dividend strippers but, in the case in point, acted too late. At that time it was said that the Government stood to lose $400m in revenue. But accurate estimates are always difficult to make.  Mr Risstrom  of the Taxpayers Association said that he had been told by experts that section 36a fiddles were bigger than the Curran scheme. 
The High Court of Australia, sitting in its legal ivory tower, has made decisions which are disastrous for the welfare of Australia and, in particular, uphold the validity of the  Curran scheme  and made section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act subject to a new almost obscene interpretation rendering its original purpose null and void. Not only has  Senator Watson  in the other place, as it is fancifully called, made public comment on this, as have other people, but no less a person than the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, has also made comment. 
We do not have time to go into all the technicalities and the complexities of these schemes. We need a full blown debate on this issue. These are complex matters and the people of Australia need to realise that the people taking advantage of these schemes are not the average middle income earners or the people on wages and salaries but people who set out to avoid tax. They are the people who are ripping off the average income earner of this country, the man who is faced by higher taxes due to this Government. He is the man who also has to live with the very regressive taxation scales and the inflation and higher taxes due to the Government's broken promises. 
Even now we see in the newspapers all the time advertisements headed '100 legal ways to reduce your tax'. Some very good schemes are mentioned for some of the Ministers in the Government. Some points read: 'How to run another business which doesn't pay tax on its profits. Nine ways to use rural tax shelters. How doctors in private practice can channel all their income into a family trust. How to get even more benefits from family trusts'- I think the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  has been reading this- 'How loans within the family can reduce tax'. So the advertisement goes on. 
The Opposition joins completely with the Government in trying to do something about taxation avoidance. We stand fully behind the Treasurer in strengthening the provisions of section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It has to be done. We also believe that we have to talk much more about retrospectivity and eventually act in this area. While ever there are smart people, the rich business friends of the Government, who are prepared to dodge tax and the ordinary average family income earner has to pay more and more tax because he cannot avoid taxation, because he pays pay-as-you-earn taxation, we will have to do something about this matter in this chamber. I say again that we need to have a full-blown debate on all of these Bills and not jam all seven Bills through in 23 minutes. It is a nonsense. 
I want to reiterate what the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has just said. The effect of this amendment is to prevent indexation of the spouse rebate. This just shows the absolute hypocrisy of this Government. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and this powerful, influential Government back bench committee which deals with taxation matters have been saying how concerned they are. The secretary of the committee, the honourable member for McCarthur (  Mr Baume),  says he is concerned about families. This committee is putting forward many suggestions in respect of the splitting of incomes. It is also putting forward proposals to help single income families. The Government is exposed by this measure. It is not prepared to go along with taxation indexation any more and keep itself honest. As it openly admits. It is not prepared even to go along with the indexation of the spouse rebate. So much for its concern about families. What has this Government got against families? I think we should ask that now. What has it got against the middle income earners of this country? It was not even prepared to discuss all these Bills properly tonight. 
The Government brought in the family allowance as a great reform. It keeps on saying that the Hayden tax scales were fixed back in 1975-76 as if a Labor government, if it continued in office, would be pinned forever with the tax scales of that time. This is the Government's chief argument against the Hayden tax scales. They were a great advance; they were a great reform. There were a lot of tax savings inherent in them. The introduction of the child rebate at the time was also a very worthwhile measure. We concede that the family allowance scheme was a great reform. But if honourable members look at the net effect, it represented a rip-off to families. The Government is not prepared to index family allowances either. So the Government's own great reform, as it heralded it, is being gradually eroded away. We have heard a lot about taxation reform, the need for indexation and the need to keep governments honest. In the February 1 978 tax scalesthe ones that followed the election of 1 977- there was the promise about the tax cuts and the great handfuls of money. A few months after the tax cuts and the three tax scales were brought in, a taxation surcharge was then imposed which was supposed to be pulled off later but was not. It is now going to be pulled off and so is the promise of tax indexation going to be pulled off. This measure again perpetuates that situation. The Government is not prepared even to index the spouse rebate. When those tax scales in February 1978 were introduced their regressiveness, their unfairness to the family income earners and the middle income earners, rapidly became apparent. Let us look to the figures. The 71.6 per cent of taxpayers on incomes of below $1 1,500 at that time, accounted for 51.5 per cent of the net income yet they received only 29.5 per cent of the total tax relief. One can contrast that situation with the 10.4 per cent of taxpayers on net incomes of $ 1 5,800 and over. They received 42.7 per cent of the total tax relief. That regressiveness is still inherent within the present tax scales and it is slanted towards those who are better off. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  last night said: 'If you look at the total tax take it was down last year on the year before by one per cent in real terms.' Now, I never believe anything the honourable member for Macarthur says, so I checked it out. It depends what deflator he used. Let us concede that he was right. Actually, I came up with a figure slightly better than one per cent so I am prepared to concede he was right. But that is not the point. The reason the total tax take is down is that the people in the middle pay more tax and the people on higher incomes pay a darn sight less. That is why the total tax take is down. I say again that this Government is not even prepared to index the spouse rebate. This Government is not even prepared to throw a bone to its own back bench committee. With all this kite flying about the concern of the Liberal Party for the families, this Government is not prepared to do anything for the families of this country. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Can he say whether the following public buildings contain asbestos: (a) Parliament House, Canberra; (b) the New South Wales Art Gallery; (c) the National Library; (d) Sydney University's Indoor Swimming Pool; (e) the Facilities Building (University Hall), and the Humanities I building of the James Cook University of North Queensland; (f) certain buildings of the Canberra College of Advanced Education; (g) the Reserve Bank Building, Canberra; (h) Melrose High School Library and Assembly Hall, Canberra, and (i) Electricity House, Canberra. 
What other public buildings, including universities, schools and offices are known to contain asbestos. 
For each of the buildings identified in parts (1) and (2), (a) when was asbestos introduced into the building; (b) what type of asbestos fibre was used, (c) is the asbestos (i) sprayed, (ii) limpet or (iii) raw fibre; if not, in what form is it, (d) what is the present state of repair of those sections of the building containing asbestos, (e) have any investigations been undertaken to ensure that there is no health hazard from air-borne asbestos fibres, and (f) what were the results of those investigations. 
Is it proposed to establish a national register of buildings, including domestic dwellings, which contain asbestos and pose potential health hazards as a result of use, maintenance, ageing or demolition. 
What steps are being taken to ensure that the occupiers and users of buildings containing asbestos are not placed at risk by air-borne asbestos fibres. 
-At the outset, I must say that the Opposition protests at the way in which the Government is ramming vital agricultural Bills through this House. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  is not even at the table. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  may be very sweet, but I do not think that he knows a great deal about sugar. The other night we debated the canned fruit industry legislation which represented the first substantial change to that industry since 1926. There were two speakers from each side, each speaking for 10 minutes. Later on today we will debate major education Bills. Again, there will be a cognate debate. But only one  speaker  from the Government side is listed to speak. We do not know how much debate there will be on these Bills but it will probably be 20 minutes from each side. Tonight we will debate the wheat Bills. Perhaps there will be three or four speakers on those Bills which relate to a wheat agreement that will be in force for the next five years. I think it is nonsense that these very important Bills which affect people in most of rural Australia are being rammed through the House in this manner. 
The Opposition is not opposed to the Sugar Agreement Bill. It is good for the sugar producer and it is good for the industry. But we wish to raise several questions regarding the agricultural policy-making procedures of the Government. This Bill renews the previous agreement which expired on 30 June this year. I do not know quite what has prevailed since that time. The only substantial change from previous agreements is the formal mechanism for setting the domestic price. 
The Opposition recognises the underpinning that the sugar industry places on coastal Queensland and northern New South Wales provincial towns and cities and is intent on seeing the industry prosper.  Dr Rex  Patterson served the sugar industry well as a member of the Labor Cabinet from 1973 to 1975 and was instrumental in ensuring that the sugar industry's case was always well to the fore. He negotiated very favourable long term export agreements for sugar at far better prices than the industry is now receiving. He made sure that the full nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy was paid because he knew how important the price of this input was to this vital industry. In contrast, this Liberal Party-National Country Party Government, including members from sugar seats, has happily and openly supported the reduction of the subsidy to a mere $20 per tonne at a time when the price of nitrogenous fertiliser is rapidly escalating due to the Government's misguided oil pricing policies. These policies can be symbolised as a slavish following of Organisations of Petroleum Exporting Countries prices and deliberations of such great mineral economists as the Ayatollah Khomeini rather than formulating energy policy for Australia in keeping with our energy resource endowment. The Government's oil-petrol price policy is not about energy; it is about gaining maximum revenue. 
This industry already feels the brunt of the price oscillations of trading on international markets. The International Sugar Agreement is only partially ratified and therefore is only partially operative at this time. The sugar industry is one of the few agricultural industries in Australia that is going through a bad stage, although there are a few signs of better days ahead. I understand that the free-on-board free export price for sugar is only about stg 160 per tonne on the London market at present, but it has been down to stg92 per tonne quite recently. But of course we need to point out that not much of our sugar is sold on the free market- perhaps 50 per cent of exports. This can be contrasted with the domestic price of $A353 per tonne for refined bulk sugar. The reason for depressed export prices is a world over supply and the policies of the European Economic Community which has an even better developed rural lobby than Australia can muster and hence produces rather uneconomically. The International Sugar Agreement is currently restricting export volume and is requiring cane growers in the signatory countries to reduce output by 15 per cent. Without the International Sugar Agreement, world prices would be substantially lower It is interesting to point out that during the 1977 election campaign, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that the International Sugar Agreement would increase prices to $2 10 per tonne. He said: 
The real problems confronting the Australian sugar industry are now behind it. 
That has not occurred, but of course the Deputy Prime Minister is the man who in August 1 973 asserted that 'demand for meat will rise so fast we'll be flat out trying to keep up with it'. Five years of the most depressed situation ever for the beef industry followed that prognostication. 
The Queensland Government is the sole seller of sugar on the domestic market under the Sugar Agreement of 1975 between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments. Under the previous agreement, the Queensland Government undertook to make refined sugar available at a certain uniform maximum price at centres in which there are refineries and in Darwin, Hobart and Launceston. Under the Agreement, maximum prices were specified for various grades of refined sugar. Evidence given to the Industries Assistance Commission's inquiry into the sugar industry revealed discontent with the system of Queensland-Commonwealth determination of the maximum price of sugar without any objectively defined principles of price fixation. This legislation is an advance because it does have a formula based on known variables. In addition, the uniform ex-refinery price resulted in certain anomalies. For example, buyers in Newcastle were paying a higher price than buyers in Perth. Following the IAC's report, a new agreement was entered into between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments on 1 October 1979 to apply until 30 June 1984. The major changes in the new agreement deal with the determination of prices. The maximum price for IXDmanufacturing grade bulk refined sugar- is to be stipulated. The price of other grades and golden syrup and treacle is to be expressed as a proportion of the IXD bulk sugar price. The maximum prices are now 'refinery gate' prices. In the case of Darwin, Hobart and Launceston the price will apply at suitable distribution centres rather than being delivered free under delivery arrangements. 
An objective domestic price determination procedure is established for IXD grade sugar. Over the first period, 1 October 1979 to 30 June 1984, the price is $353 per tonne. In future financial years the price increase will be given by the formula P x I x E x C where P is the price in the previous year, I is the percentage change in the consumer price index over the previous year, E is the ratio of the average return on exports within mill peaks in the season that precedes the season immediately prior to the year in respect of which the price is to be ascertained to that same average return in the season immediately prior to that year, and, C is 0.7, being deemed the ratio of the cash costs to total industry costs. The formula is very good for sugar cane growers as it incorporates a mechanism which will lift domestic prices on a yearly basis. Earlier this year there was an increase of 26 per cent in the domestic price of manufacturing grade sugar, and now we have a formula which, by adjusting the agreed maximum price of sugar on the domestic market each year, provides that the export price will have an inverse effect on the domestic price. This means that if the export price falls the domestic price will still rise. This can be contrasted with the Government's formula for the wheat industry which we will be debating tonight. 
The new formula ignores the majority view of the IAC which said that domestic price determination should be related only to cash costs in the industry. The new formula ignores the minority view of  Mr McKinnon  of the IAC who said export prices should be taken into account, but those should have a direct, not inverse, effect on the domestic price. He proposed a three year moving average, plus 10 per cent. The new formula ignores the recommendation of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which had believed that export prices should have a direct, not inverse, effect on prices. A consistent approach to the formula was taken by the BAE with respect to domestic wheat prices also. The new formula also ignores the charitable view of the cane growers who argued for annual price adjustments proportionate to changes in the industry's cash costs but with all productivity gains accruing to consumers. 
One needs to point out that objective measures of cash costs throughout the industry, growing through to the refined product, are not known with any objective certainty. Both the Federation of Consumer Organisations and the Food Industry Council of Australia have attacked this deficiency, and the formula, because it has tied the price to the rate of change in the consumer price index and thereby shields the industry, to a degree, from market signals. The CPI may be an entirely unsatisfactory measure for industry costs given its composition. It may even understate industry costs to a considerable degree. Consumers have a legitimate complaint about this legislation as in only 10 of the last 52 years have Australian sugar cane growers and millers received a higher return for raw sugar sold by them on overseas markets. That is, consumers have subsidised producers in this industry. I am not saying that this is necessarily wrong, but it needs to be said objectively. But again, from the consumer's point of view, the formula ensures that whenever world prices slump, the price of sugar bought by Australian consumers rises higher than it would if world prices increased. So we have a mess of inconsistencies and contradictions in Government policy decision making. I mention this particularly as we are discussing the Wheat Bills tonight. 
Under the formula sugar prices are negatively correlated to export prices in the long term and wheat prices are positively correlated to export prices in the long term, yet many characteristics of the industries are the same. The major difference is the export price and the fact that the sugar industry is protected from import competition. At the same time the sugar industry is feeling the full brunt of the National Country Party's import parity pricing policy for oil, fuel, and nitrogenous fertilisers when we are importing only 30 per cent of our fuel needs. 
What is the reason for this confusion? Fundamentally, it is the fact that many major interest groups in Australia do not have as much access to Governments as do producer groups. If one examines the access of producer and union groups to Government, compared with consumers and minorities, the evidence is clear. This has already been detailed exhaustively by Professor Mathews in a paper written and printed by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. One could instance the way in which the Wheatgrowers' Federation, the Wheat Board and the State Governments, together with the Commonwealth, make up the Wheat Agreement. If a State government disagrees with the negotiation because it accepts domestic consumer viewpoints, whether it be by industry, other farmers using stockfeed, or bread eaters, it is castigated by the National Country Party. 
I believe that the process I have outlined is understandable. We are about politics and pressure groups and not always about economic rationality. But it would be an improvement if we could be a little more consistent. The difference between the sugar industry and the wheat industry regarding policy approach could be used as an example of how difficult a national agricultural policy is to achieve. It could also be used as an argument for stating that national policy making should be at the national level for agriculture. But I do not see this happening in the case of sugar as it is grown predominantly in Queensland. This raises an interesting point. The Premier of Western Australia is determined to establish an industry in his State producing 200,000 tonnes per annum, that is, about 7 per cent of Australian production, in the Ord Valley. So far he cannot find the approximately $300m capital requirement. Such a project would add to oversupply, would be produced at higher cost than in Queensland, and would add to the difficulties of the industry. Western Australia consumes about 60,000 tonnes per annum, so one assumes that there will be an export surplus. I would be interested to learn from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who is at the table, what would be the status of a Western Australia sugar industry- or a Tasmanian sugar beet industry, for that matter- with respect to the agreement we are debating. We are really only debating an agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments. We are not debating the legislation which covers the industry itself, and really what the legislation is about is the Commonwealth doing what the Queensland Government wanted it to do. The IAC was regarded as a nuisance by the Queensland Government. 
The legislation which covers the industry in Queensland is the Sugar Act, which ratines a structure for the most regimented and heavily institutionalised rural industry in Australia. How  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  can ever describe this as ' free enterprise' I will never know. The industry is a market economist's nightmare with cost information a closed book. Yet it is members of the Government side who so pride themselves on believing at all times in free market forces. The sugar industry accepts quotas that the wheat industry rejects. The sugar industry accepts controls that the beef industry would take up arms about. The production in determined by the Central Cane Prices Board and the Queensland Sugar Board sets the total amount of sugar cane which may be delivered to the Board and which the Board is committed to acquire. This total is known as the 'mill peak' and is paid for at the price set down by the Board. The grower has no choice of mill and even the sale of his land is subject to approval. Approval must be sought for the transfer of sugar cane assignments and mill peaks. 
Sugar mills are owned by three distinct groups: The co-operatives, the group which comprises the Australian Proprietary Sugar Millers Association and a group which operate as part of a vertically integrated operation. This includes Pioneer Sugar Mills and CSR Ltd. We have few measures as to the true cost of operating the mills, but from the prices paid by mills for takeovers one can assume that they are highly profitable and that the Australian consumers are subsidising either the finance of the takeovers or the less efficient mills. There is little market competition in milling and, of course, the cost of milling and all procedures from farm gate to refining have a bearing on eventual producer returns. 
The domestic marketing of raw sugar is the responsibility of the Queensland Sugar Board. Traditionally CSR Ltd has been appointed the agent of the Board and operates the five refineries around Australia. It is quite clear from evidence at the IAC that the relationship between Queensland Sugar Board and CSR Ltd was not really the subject of negotiation, and that the CSR was the beneficiary of a government granted monopoly. Perhaps Tate and Lyle from the United Kingdom will be allowed to operate as a refiner here. And of course the New South Wales Government agrees to all this because is has to, due to the institutional rigidity of the Queensland arrangements and the market power that that State has. But let us not kid ourselves that elements of this industry have anything much to do with free enterprise. 
What I do reject is that the industry is overbureaucratised. By and large it would appear that the controllers of the industry act efficiently and that the very tight discipline is not bucked. The worry is that there is not much competition operating in the processes of the industry and hence one has no measure of its relative efficiency. There is a pro-case for the industry's structure and returns are dominated by the world market and the ISA. Farm sizes are increasing, internal cost pressures are as high as, if not higher than most agricultural industries, and some small mills have closed. Similarly, farmers only receive 65 per cent of gross returns due to the other 35 per cent being taken by the Queensland Sugar Board. But this money is not just for administration. It is to finance bulk storage and port facilities. For example, the magnificent Lucinda port terminal has, therefore, been paid for by the producers themselves. The industry also finances its own research and, at the farm level, cannot be regarded as having been shielded from market forces other than with respect to the import restriction and domestic pricing arrangements. 
One other point I would like to raise is the crazy situation with respect to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee. For the life of me I do not know why sugar producers need to have to subsidise, by an elaborate procedure, local consumers of sugar in the fruit processing industries. The theory is that the concession of $ 1 5 a tonne is there to compensate processors for the lower import price of sugar, but imports are banned. Why should the price of fruit going into cans, bottles and plastic containers be fixed by a committee acting under the umbrella of a sugar price concession? The prices agreed to are really fixed by taking into account projected supply and demand and on many occasions they have not been able to be carried through for the whole season. If fruit prices have to be fixed that is all right, but let us not continue this charade. 
The present ISA has not been ratified by the European Economic Community, which now takes the view that it may ratify it if the United States does. The United States is the world's largest importer of sugar and, although it has provisionally applied the agreement, that is, the Administration has agreed to it, the legislation that went through the United States Congress was mixed up with measures of support for the domestic sugar industry. It was the latter provisions which caused the Bill to be lost, not the former. While talking of the ISA we need to note that sugar is the first of the 23 commodities to be included in the Common Fund, but so far progress has been slow. 
The ISA operates on a trigger mechanism whereby for every United States cent below 1 lc per lb, producing and exporting countries hold onto sugar stocks. If the figure is above 2 1 United States cents per lb, producing and exporting countries are compelled to release stocks. There is also  2lA  million tonnes of sugar held in special stocks. It is only in the last two weeks that the London and United States free market prices have broken through the lower price of 1 1 cents per lb. This has meant also that the restraint on major world importers to import only from members of the ISA has been lifted. Although effects on Australia will not be immediate, it means also that we are not forced to hold stocks or maintain production controls. At present we are producing only about 2.8 million tonnes. This can be contrasted to 3.3 million tonnes two years ago. Last year 3 million tonnes of cane was not cut. That would have been another million tonnes of sugar produced if we could have or would have been allowed to sell it. Australia's 1 979-80 export entitlement under the ISA is approximately 1 .9 million tonnes. We have an additional obligation to acquire special stocks of 160,000 tonnes. It should be noted that the ISA trigger mechanism does not particularly benefit less developed countries who are not major exporters. 
As I said, prices have lifted through the first trigger point and this is good for the future of the industry. There are still large stocks of sugar but in the coming year it is felt that these will not increase. However, it should be said that there is a chance that the free price in the last month has been distorted by the general speculation that has taken place with respect to commodities as funds have been transferred out of currencies into goods. The long term price may settle well below 1 1 US cents per lb. The other qualification that needs to be made is that at least SO per cent of Australia's exports are involved in long term contracts, particularly to the Asian market. We have recently signed a five year contract with South Korea and are negotiating another with Japan at present. For the other 50 per cent we are completely a price taker. It is interesting to note that recently we have picked up spot contracts with Iran and China, it is hoped, at good prices. 
The final point I wish to make is that we must continue to press our view as to the economic irrationality of the EEC's sugar producing policies. The EEC applies price supports at two to three times the level of world market prices. This has led to production having risen from 9.2 million tonnes over five years ago to 12.8 million tonnes in 1978. We have complained to the members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and so we we should, particularly for the sake of the minor but efficient sugar producing countries. The Opposition does not oppose the Bills. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills and, subject to some qualifications, believes that they go a further step in providing a rational economic marketing base to one of Australia's greatest rural industries. This further five year plan differs in several aspects from the previous one but in many ways it is a logical follow on from the plan introduced by  Senator Ken  Wriedt in 1974.  His  plan was a major breakthrough in having a more rational, flexible and open approach to the wheat industry. The various plans from 1948 until 1974 provided for the Australian Government to contribute when export returns were lower than the guaranteed price level fixed for each of the years. 
The 1 974 plan contained provisions based on different principles. A stabilisation price replaced the guaranteed price and it was adjusted to reflect the trends in world wheat prices over a period of years. Unlike the old guaranteed price in the previous stabilisation plan, which applied to a maximum export quantity of 200 million bushels, that is, nearly 5.5 million tonnes, each season the stabilisation price applied to all wheat exported in a season. However, there were limits to the amount that could be drawn from a stabilisation fund which was financed by growers or Government dependent on the relativity of export domestic price. I will not go into the previous formula but its parameters were related to export prices and embodied principles present in the present Bill. That is why I say that it gives the background to the Bill before us. Under the 1 974 plan the basic class of wheat to be marketed by the Australian Wheat Board was called Australian Standard White For the first time there was no reference to the old fair average quality classification. For each of the five years of the p'lan the Minister for Primary Industry fixed a price a tonne for wholesale sales in Australia by the Board with respect to ASW. This was done in consultation with the State Ministers taking into account not so much a formula but some basic principles. The home consumption price was the same for wheat whether used for human consumption, industrial use or for stockfeed. 
The most important payment to wheat growers is the first advance. The level and timing of it and subsequent payments are of critical importance to their finances. To pay the first advance the AWB is empowered to borrow from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia and to operate the pooling system which operated on the various grades of wheat. The Government permitted, persuaded or stood over the AWB last year so that it could borrow from sources other than the Reserve Bank when it found that AWB payments were adding rapidly to the money supply during last harvest to the extent of 3 per cent of M3. Whereas the overdraft with the Reserve Bank was guaranteed by the Australian Government the new arrangement required the Australian Government to guarantee the repayment of borrowings and interest and to subsidise the difference in interest charges. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech said that the Industries Assistance Commission considered that the continuation of the stabilisation assistance arrangements for the wheat industry could not be justified on either efficiency or welfare grounds and. recommended its discontinuation. The Government apparently agrees with this and has decided that in the place of so-called stabilisation arrangements that growers should receive a substantial payment when their wheat is received by the Australian Wheat Board. This is a tremendous concession by a National Country Party Minister which could only be allowed without protest from the industry due to the working of the previous plan. It is wise for there to be a high price to be received by growers after delivery and it is also sensible and in the Australian Wheat Board's interest for this to be so, so that interstate trading and private trading is minimised. I agree with the Minister's view on the previous stabilisation arrangements. The terms of reference of the IAC inquiry into wheat stabilisation were: 
Whether Commonwealth Government assistance should be provided to stabilise wheat returns for the seasons following the 1978-79 season. 
The one factor that stands out above all others in destabilising farm income is the weather. The main factor that destabilises wheat returns is of course the export market. In this situation all that any Government can really provide by way of a stabilisation scheme is a buffering mechanism which irons out high and low prices. There is little sense in trying to stabilise wheat returns per se. Measures such as income averaging and income equalisation deposits have a far more beneficial effect for growers than measures applying to production and the IAC has pointed to this. 
The IAC said in its draft report that past assistance to the wheat industry has been .closely involved with the stabilisation plans. However, in addition to stabilisation there have also been other forms of assistance of a more general nature which are available to all primary producers such as subsidies on inputs. Due to the inherent nature of agriculture production as.well as changes in the degree of Government intervention, the levels of assistance to the wheat industry have varied significantly over time. For example effective rates of protection for wheat farms were above 20 per cent during 1971-72 and as low as minus 1 1 per cent in 1973-74. Direct Commonwealth contributions to the stabilisation fund as well as consumer transfers have both been important sources of assistance to the wheat industry. Although the emphasis on the objectives of these stabilisation arrangements has changed over time, they were generally aimed at providing a more certain economic environment for wheat producer decision making. 
In the draft report the IAC saw little value in -attempting to stabilise wheat returns but also stated: 
. removal of the assistance involved in the cushioning function may not improve the efficiency of resource use as it could have the effect of further disadvantaging one of Australia's more efficient industries. 
The draft report also included some important recommendations on wheat marketing which departed from long established arrangements. I will not go into all the recommendations of the IAC on the wheat industry but in summary they amounted to a drastic reduction in the level of assistance through budgetary sources, and consumer transfers of future price variations were similar to those of the past two decades. It was for this reason that the Bureau of Agricultural 
Economics suggested a more efficient form of assistance to the industry in terms of funding by the changes to the first advance paymentmaking it in effect a minimum or floor price. The Government has accepted this. It has also accepted and rejected other recommendations of the IAC which I will not go into. 
I anticipate that a couple of the speakers that the Government has managed to persuade to speak on this legislation will attack the New South Wales Government as the cause of delay in getting these Bills before the Parliament. It is not quite as simple as that. True, the States had virtual veto powers during the protracted negotiations but the New South Wales Government is fully entitled to put its view as to the factors it wanted to take into account, particularly those of the stockfeed industry, industry and domestic consumers. One must praise the open and flexible attitude of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation through all the negotiations and the way that it did not seek to make political capital of the deliberations. The New South Wales Government rightly points to the AWB as a grower board and a monopoly and whilst agreeing to this believes that some constraints in principle need to be applied. It does not believe the community would accept the Australian Council of Trade Unions setting awards for rural workers but if the AWB is to set the domestic price of wheat for stockfeed and industrial use, the methods need to be seen to be fair and to have the force of law. 
Debate interrupted. 
The New South Wales Government expressed its concern as early as the January Australian Agricultural Council meeting and debated the BAE formula. Correspondence flowed between the New South Wales Minister and other Ministers, and the Commonwealth changed its position at one stage in the discussions. Previously its position had been quite clear. It cannot be said that the New South 
Wales Minister was not telling anyone of his Government's position. Nor can it be held that the then Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  or the Wheatgrowers Federation was being obstructive. On 13 June the honourable member for New England agreed to further discussions and the whole question was again debated by the Australian Agricultural Council meeting of late August. It was not until 15 October that the Commonwealth was able to supply the model Bills to the States and even so changes in drafting were still being made. The principle has been fairness in setting the domestic price for wheat. The New South Wales Government has wanted there to be a referral mechanism should there be any dispute as to the set price. New South Wales has the powers of the Prices Commission but would have preferred a federal panel. As I understand it, a satisfactory outcome has now resulted. 
There have been three basic prices relating to the wheat industry. There has been a stabilisation price, a first advance price and a home consumption price with final returns to growers being eventually dependent on export returns. The new scheme embodies several changes to the pre-existing arrangements. The first advance payment, which was near constant or slowly rising and had varied from being up to 90 per cent of and down to 50 per cent of the final return over the past 20 years, will be discontinued and replaced by a guaranteed minimum delivery price equal to 95 per cent of the estimated average market return for wheat in the season in question and the two preceding seasons. If the market does not return that price, the deficit will be made up, firstly from the grower's fund of $100m, made up from the $80m already in it, plus another $20m to be paid in by growers, or if this is exhausted from government revenues. Annual movement in the guaranteed minimum delivery price will be limited to 15 per cent so a ban has been effectively placed into the formula. The GMDP is a modified moving average closely related to actual market prices. It was this concept that was first included in the 1 974 Act relating to the guaranteed price. It is unlikely that this system will cost the Government anything in the five years ahead given that inflation is not likely to be suddenly cured and that grain shortages in the northern hemisphere are almost inevitable. The GMDP is to be supported because by guaranteeing a relatively high initial payment growers will be encouraged to plant more wheat. In the long run this is desirable given that 
Australia is basically a low cost and internationally competitive producer. 
The home consumption price will be administered and adjusted annually as in the past, 'but wheat for stock feed and industrial use will be priced by the AWB at its discretion. This will mean in most instances export parity. The home consumption formula is designed to charge above export parity and thereby provide some support for the industry. The industry has mainly subsidised domestic consumers over the years and the formula, although slightly regressive, cannot be justifiably criticised. 
From the permutations of the formula I have gone through- I will not go into the formula itself- it would appear that wheat growers will still be subsidising domestic consumers in the short term. Simply put, the formula adjusts the price in line with movements in both domestic costs and export prices subject to a constraint that the home consumption price, excluding the Tasmanian freight loading, does not change by more than 20 per cent from one year to the next. The formula was developed by the BAE in consultation with parties engaged in the negotiation of the plan. For 1979-80 the home consumption price works out to be $127.78, which is less than last year's price but higher than in any other year. 
Most of the debate on the plan has been with respect to the price to be fixed by the AWB for non-formula domestically consumed wheat. I have outlined the position of the New South Wales Government. Some of the thinking as to the effects of wheat prices on the prices of other grains has been a little muddled. I do not believe that when wheat prices are high the price of coarse grains will also rise, or that domestic consumers will be unfairly ripped off. The prices for coarse grains are set very much by export parity prices as we have no market power internationally in these commodities. Thus wheat prices in Australia would not affect this parity unless there were no grains for export, and this rarely happens. As far as a consumer rip-off is concerned I think there are good grounds for saying that grains can be rapidly substituted for wheat, particularly for stock feed. 
Although domestic coarse grain prices move closely with world coarse grain prices some analyses in the BAE have suggested that the artificially determined home consumption price for wheat has also influenced domestic prices for barley, sorghum, maize and oats over the last 24 years. The removal of the HCP for wheat could change the price relativities of all grains on the domestic market. Estimates suggested that a 10 per cent decline in the home consumption price for wheat would decrease barley prices by some 3 per cent, sorghum prices by 4 per cent, maize prices by 9 per cent and oat prices by 6 per cent. Feed grains consumption, both in total and individually, could also change significantly depending on the degree of technical substitution. Time does not allow me to explore fully the relationship between wheat and coarse grains in terms of domestic consumption, the regime of export prices and the domestic price, but suffice it to say that it is my view that the more flexibility the better and that the concessions in the Bills to trading between growers and users go some way to meeting my objections. Having been a poultry farmer, I can understand the view of consumers of stock feed in Australia and the need for some tribunal if disputes arise as to the price set by the AWB for stockfeed wheat. 
The Industries Assistance Commission recommended an open market for domestic trading in stockfeed and the BAE agreed with this principle. I believe we must move to this system and hope that extensions of trading in the Bills will provide a helpful experience for change in the future. We also have to take into account the current court proceedings regarding section 92 of the Constitution. A strict interpretation of section 92 will almost certainly ensure the continuation of interstate trading. Sole trader provisions as presently operated by the Australian Wheat Board provide a more certain environment for both producers and consumers of wheat. However, sole trading eliminates competition and could hamper the adoption of technological and marketing innovations with potential to improve marketing efficiency. Free trade in wheat on the domestic market could probably be advantageous to growers if the following conditions were met: Firstly, the Australian Wheat Board continued to offer to purchase all wheat under, at least, the current pool arrangements; secondly, the prices offered by the Australian Wheat Board and private traders were widely disseminatedpublication of market prices, by grade and region of sales, by private traders add to greater marketing information and consequently price efficiency; and thirdly, provision were made to ensure adequate insect and varietal control by all traders of wheat. If the above conditions were satisfied each grower would have the option of selling wheat in the manner and at a price most advantageous to himself. 
The role of the Australian Wheat Board as a sole trader in marketing wheat destined for use in feeding livestock in Australia is questionable, particularly now that a rninimum delivery price system is to be introduced. In years when production levels are high, enforcing delivery of feed wheat to the bulk handling system is costly and inefficient. Even the monitoring of the prices at which all sales are made is of doubtful value to the industry. There is little hard evidence to support the suggestion that private trading would result in prices being forced down to the level of the weakest seller. The GMDP will provide a general floor to the market. Each seller would retain the ability to sell to the Australian Wheat Board or to a number of traders and he could compare prices. However, there is a need for added sophistication in the domestic grains marketing system and for improvements in the dissemination of market information. 
It is questionable whether the feeding of grain to livestock has reached its optimal level in Australia. In periods when grain prices are stable and meat prices are rising, in particular, it is doubtful whether the existing grain supplying system optimally allocates grain between the domestic and export markets. When meat prices are very high, it would be more efficient for Australia to export more grain in the form of meat. The development of a sophisticated private domestic grain market would facilitate the determination of an optimal national balance between grain exporting and livestock feeding. If a large private trade in grain on the domestic market is to be allowed to develop, certain benchmarks will be useful in encouraging it to develop in a balanced and efficient manner. The GMDP being a high proportion of expected returns would be one such benchmark. However, this price would be effective only at the time of delivery. After normal Board delivery time, a firmly quoted Australian Wheat Board price for stock feed sales related to the opportunity cost of the wheat prices obtainable on export markets would be an important lynchpin of the pricing system. State departments responsible for agriculture would also have an important role in collecting, analysing and disseminating market price reports for the grain market. 
A mechanism for determining the value of private grain storage would also be useful in ensuring an efficient pricing structure in the domestic market for all grains. Existing spot markets for feed grains have been notoriously thin and unreliable as barometers of coarse grain prices. In Canada, the Winnipeg Grain Exchange offers facilities for trading grain for the domestic market by means of both spot and futures markets. If private trading in feed wheat were permitted in 
Australia, the possibility of establishing comparable facilities here would have to be investigated. This would provide a central focus for the efficient pricing of all grain traded on the local market. 
There are many other aspects of the wheat industry on which one could speak and there are still reforms that could be enacted, as I have pointed out. I would have liked to talk about handling, storage and transport, insect infestation, pooling, segregation, quality control and finance. I am always concerned that organisations, given the role of marketing our primary commodities do not become over-bureaucratised or unjustifiably secretive. That is why I plug for market forces to operate, particularly in respect of the internal trading of grains in this country. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
recognises that non-metropolitan Australia has 30 per cent of our population yet experiences 42 per cent of national unemployment; that the September 1975 unemployment vacancy ratio for non-metropolitan areas was 13.3 compared to 24.8 in September 1979 and that in September 1979 46 juniors were registered per vacancy in non-metropolitan areas compared to 23 registered per vacancy in the cities; 
deplores the rejection by the Government of a plan by the Australian Council of Local Government Organisations that would have created jobs throughout non-metropolitan Australia; 
is of the opinion that the Federal Government has failed to recognise and deal with rural unemployment; and 
calls on the Government to urgently implement job creation programs particularly at the local government level. 
When will the Minister for Primary Industry table the Auditor-General's report on the administration of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd which was received by his predecessor on or about 17 September and about which the Minister was questioned on 16 October? Has the Minister yet received the report on the AuditorGeneral's further investigation of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd which he initiated on 19 September? Has he acted upon the 'need for particular actions considered necessary' to which his attention was drawn in the Auditor-General's supplementary report tabled on 13 November? If not, why not? 
I have been informed that this is a wide-ranging debate. I thought it was about rural adjustment or rural reconstruction so I will take as my guide the previous  speaker  the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and I will talk about wombats. 
That is your nickname. The Tarcoola railway has very little to do with this debate on rural reconstruction. I am amazed that this is the fourth major agricultural Bill that has been debated in the Parliament in the last two weeks. At no time has the Minister responsible for the legislation or the Minister assisting him been present in the House. Tonight, I understand there is one National Country Party  speaker  from the Government. But we had to call a quorum to get some support for the one Government - 
We had to call a quorum to get an audience for the honourable member. 1 do not think it is good enough for the Government to treat the rural sector in the way that it does. There are many matters in this legislation, as there were with respect to canned fruits, the wheat industry and the sugar industry, that require debate. Just because we are coming to the end of the session, there is no need to treat the rural sector in such a cavalier fashion. 
I have here the speakers' list. There is one  speaker  from the Government on this Bill. We have three listed. 
We had to chase up Government members by calling a quorum to bring them in. 
This Bill is touted as an advance in this Government's rural reconstruction policies. It is true that there are a few administrative changes and advances in the Bill. They are mainly to allow transfers of funds from State to State and to allow for supplementary determinations. Government members are all leaving now that I am talking about this matter. The fact is that, in keeping with the Government's growing antirural stance, the August Budget of this year not only savaged the rural sector, but actually chopped funds to rural reconstruction and adjustment by 63 per cent. I can say the 'Government's growing anti-rural stance' with a fair amount of certainty because we must remember that it was the rural sector that suffered most in the May mini-Budget. Over $70m was taken off rural industry then, particularly the beef industry. As well as that, the rural sector has to put up with the Government's crazy fuel policy. In 1977-78, $43.2m was spent on rural adjustment. In 1978-79, $47m was spent on rural adjustment. But lo and behold, because conditions have become a little better in the agricultural industry, funds are to be chopped to $ 19.2m, a drop of $27.8m estimated in the year ahead. That represents a drop of 63 per cent. That is the largest cut in any government program. The piece de resistance is the allocation of a whole $0.5m for the Northern Territory in this Bill. The Government will argue that the agricultural upturn has diminished the demand for adjustment assistance. This is nonsense. Farms just do not somehow automatically become viable because the price of some of the commodities has improved. The other escape hatch the Government will head for as a rationalisation of its anti-rural policies will be the fact that it has established the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. This is a facility for long term lending to basically viable farms. It is not concerned with adjustment assistance or farm build up when all avenues for assistance have been exhausted. 
Let us be quite clear what this scheme is about. The rural adjustment scheme established under the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act 1976 provides assistance to the States for purposes of farm debt reconstruction, farm build up, farm improvement and rehabilitation, carry-on finance and household support. Assistance for debt reconstruction, farm build up, farm improvement and rehabilitation is made available by the Commonwealth on an overall 85 per cent loan- 15 per cent grant basis. So all of those programs have been reduced by 63 per cent, with the Commonwealth contributing a further amount to assist in defraying administrative expenses. For the household support component, the Commonwealth finances all assistance and contributes towards administrative expenses. The States repay to the Commonwealth any principal and interest recouped by them. In relation to carry-on finance, the States share equally with the Commonwealth both the financing of loans and administrative costs and all principal and interest payments received from producers. For 1 979-80 carry-on finance will be available only to wine grape growers. Outlays under the scheme are estimated at $ 19.2m. That compares with $47m in 1978-79. 
Let us look at these farm build up provisions because these are some of the most important ones, particularly as a continuing part of the Government's program on rural adjustment. When the industries pick up, that is a good time to facilitate farm build up. The farm build up provisions are designed to encourage amalgamation of properties which are too small to be economic under current and forecast economic conditions. Under this scheme finance may be provided either to the owner of an uneconomic property for the purpose of buying adjoining land to build up his property or to an adjoining owner to enable him to purchase an uneconomic farm. Grants may be made at the discretion of the State administering authority to recover in whole or in part losses sustained in the disposal of assets, including the purchase price of the property, which are not usual for the farm build up property. 
Under the dairy adjustment program, which is now winding up, assistance was available for the restoration of an uneconomic property to economic viability by improving the effective use of an existing farm without adding to its area. The 1 976 Act provided for assistance of that kind to be extended to the whole farm sector under the farm improvement provisions of the rural adjustment scheme. This was provided for only in 1976. Now the scheme is being wound down by something like 63 per cent in money terms. 
To be eligible for such assistance the applicant must be in a position where he is unable to obtain finance on reasonable terms from any other normal source. He must also be able to demonstrate that his existing farm has been but is not now viable, that the property is of sufficient size and the proposed improvements are of such a kind as to offer sound prospects for restoration for long term commercial viability if assistance under this scheme were provided. Farm improvement assistance may take the form of advances for plant, livestock, carry-on expenses and further property development intended to restore the economic viability of the farm either in its existing form of production or in another form of production. Grants are at the discretion of the State authorities which may be made to cover in whole or in part losses sustained from the reduction in value of assets which are either not useful or are less useful because of the changed pattern of farm operation. 
These are the farm build up provisions. They were introduced not quite three years ago and now the Government is virtually ditching them by not providing the funds. As I have explained, the arrangements do not really provide that the States can pick up the can. The rural assistance boards of the States, which have developed their own criteria to fit in with the needs of each State, will be in a rather straitened condition. The rural adjustment programs have contributed enormously to the viability of the agricultural sector as we see it today. 
Let us try to quantify that. In the past, four main avenues have existed through which the rural sector has received publicly funded adjustment finances. There was the rural reconstruction program itself; then there was the dairy adjustment program which the Labor Government introduced as we phased out the dairy subsidy; there was the fruit growing reconstruction scheme which has now been terminated but which I think should have been continued, particularly in respect to some of the canning fruits; and there was the Commonwealth Development Bank. From 1975 to 1979 funds provided through those avenues were of the order of $330m. Of this about $300m was provided for farmers in the form of interest bearing repayable loans. 
The economic arguments for rural reconstruction are clear and they do not relate to short term factors of boom and bust or the agricultural cycle or the various commodities. Economic arguments for rural reconstruction rest on the attempt to secure conditions for individual producers to make changes in their means or mode of production which increased at the same time the real income of the nation. To emphasise the long-run nature of change in the allocation of resources in the rural sector, it is useful to reflect on the kinds of impediments to the efficient allocation of resources in agriculture that there can be. For example, in practical terms, the problems of an area such as the Riverland may require a longer term approach for an individual with a farm in that area than it does for an individual whose farm simply is not big enough in another form of production. For the nation as a whole cases have existed where pricing and subsidy arrangements have fixed resources within an industry. This reconstruction requires an industry-wide approach, not a regional or individual approach. In this regard I think particularly of the dairy industry and the way policies of the early 1 960s caused misery in the 70s and the fact that the dairy adjustment program was one of the means by which we got the rural sector out of some trouble in that industry. 
Another matter we can reflect upon is the occupational inability of farmers. That is another aspect of reconstruction that could be debated. It is a pity that we do not have the time or that the Government is not willing to provide the time to talk about that matter. It can be seen that the time that would have to be taken for social and educational measures to be taken into account, where farmers are locked into their way of living and yet wish to get out of it, has no relationship to the relative affluence of the rural sector in one season. The most recent full evaluation of rural reconstruction was carried out by the Industries Assistance Commission. It reported to the Government on 13 January 1976. The Bills introduced on 2 December 1976 were the ones that followed up this report. There were also four Industries Assistance Commission reports into the fruit growing industry. These reports recommended, in particular, the establishment of area redevelopment authorities as another means of effecting rural adjustment particularly for the regional irrigation areas. 
The Industries Assistance Commission made 14 recommendations in 1 976. It is to the Government's credit that it implemented most of them. For example, in the 1976 legislation- the former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  delivered his second reading speech on 2 December- all the schemes were combined. That was the second recommendation of the IAC. It also pointed out that the closing date for applications for tree pull assistance should be extended to 31 December 1976. This was done. The new Federal-State agreement recommended that rural adjustment schemes should run for five years. The then Minister said in his speech in 1976 that the whole scheme would be reviewed in four years. The Government, by cutting off funds for the scheme, has almost prevented a sensible review of the scheme. 
Many other recommendations were made in respect of the interest rate, rehabilitation assistance, the household support scheme, et cetera. As I said, the Government is to be praised for picking up these schemes. In many ways they follow some of the measures that the Labor Government introduced. The major recommendation which was not picked up by the Government was recommendation 13 which provided that an independent national authority should be established to co-ordinate, monitor and evaluate rural adjustment policy and initiatives. That has not been done. This is a major scheme. As I pointed out, some $330m has been spent on it. Yet this year $ 19.2m has been spent. That is an absolute scandal. I am amazed that the State governments that administer these schemes are not protesting a lot more. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) What has been the value of the basic living allowance of Commonwealth Post-graduate Awards in each year since 1970. 
What arrangements have been made regarding the taxing of this award since 1 970. 
What has been the value of the average male earnings in each year since 1970. 
What has been the value of the minimum wage in each year since 1970. 
Using Professor R. F. Henderson's criteria, where has the poverty line been set in each year since 1 970 . 
What has been the increase in the rate of the CPI in each year since 1970. 
Is the Commonwealth Post-graduate Award to be regarded as an income; if so, why are Award holders not receiving the benefits of income earners. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the allegation in the  Daily Telegraph  of 13 September 1979 that native birds have been smuggled out of Australia from the top-secret US base at Pine Gap. 
If so, what action does he propose to take with regard to the matter. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 15 November 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government had regular information from a variety of sources on the level of fighting and the state of the welfare of the people of East Timor ever since Indonesia's invasion in 1975. 
Can he say what are the most reliable estimates of the number of persons (a) killed as the result of fighting or as a consequence of the fighting and (b) who have died of starvation. 
Is there any evidence of the Indonesian Government following a policy of genocide. 
Has the Australian Government been actively informing the Indonesian Government of its concern for the plight of the Tiimorese during the last 4 years. 
lt not, when will diplomatic sensitivities give way to humanitarian principles. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Australian waters banned for fishing by Japanese fishing vessels were never fished in the areas specified in the agreement between the Australian and Japanese Governments (concerning Japanese tuna long-line fishing) which came into effect on 1 November 1979. 
It is also a fact that the ban in the agreement will have no effect whatsoever on conservation offish species. 
Did the former Minister for Primary Industry promise there would be no fishing by foreign boats on stocks already being fished by Australians. 
Does the fishing agreement allow Japanese tuna longliners to catch southern bluefin tuna from latitude 35S to 60S, an area where Australian fishermen have been catching fish for 30 years. 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement by the  President  of the Tuna Boat Owners Association of Australia that Japanese boats bunkering in Brisbane, Sydney, Hobart, Fremantle and Albany will use up approximately 100 million gallons of Australia 's distillate each year; if so, will the Government assure the fishing industry that there will be a continuity of supply of distillate to fishermen in the event of a shortage. 
Can he give an assurance to the fishing industry that full consultation was maintained with industry representatives throughout negotiations leading up to the 200 mile fishing agreement with Japan. 
Were 2 fishing industry representatives requested against the best interest of their industry, not to divulge information on the 200 mile agreement to other officials of the industry prior to its release. 
How many Japanese boats regularly fish Australian waters each year. 
Would their catch be worth approximately $300m; if not, what would be its value. 
10) On what basis was the $ 1 .4m fee struck. 
What sum per boat does this amount represent. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) What funding, recurrent or capital, is appropriated annually with respect to basic physical impairments suffered by individuals, such as blindness, deafness, spasticity, crippled, paraplegia, quadraplegia, etc. 
What sum of the funding for individuals or organisations caring for individuals is provided by State Governments and charitable organisations. 
3 ) Is any record kept of the amounts of tax deductible donations going to specific organisations caring for impaired Australians or to the total of persons suffering from an impairment 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) Have advertisements been placed in the media stating the Government's or his Department's position on any industrial dispute; if so, on what occasion, with which media, and what was the cost 
Was the money spent from a budgetary, special or permanent appropriation; if so, which appropriation. 
