I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has it been brought to the attention of the Minister that a number of prominent farmers from north-west Tasmania are planning to block public streets and highways in Tasmania with tractors and farm machinery to draw attention to their desperate plight? Is he also aware that 150 farmers are marching today on the Commonwealth Employment Service office at Burnie to register as unemployed persons? What is the Minister's reactions to these actions? 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, a major Tasmanian employer, has recently announced that it will be increasing production of paper at both its Wesley Vale and Burnie mills, with a resultant significant increase in its work force? Does the Minister view this as evidence of a general improvement in the economy? 
-I regret,  Sir, that  it is necessary for me in my maiden speech to follow a man who has just made a scurrilous speech which has debased this House and the standing of this House. It was a mean and despicable act against a dead man. I appreciate my responsibility in making my maiden speech that I must not be unduly provocative, but I am afraid I must say that this speech has disappointed me. This attack on a dead man- a man whom I did not know- has caused great distress to his family, to his dependants and to his loved ones. It is most unfair, despicable and unAustralian that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  should now seek to attack this man in this way. The principle is clear. This man is dead. He cannot defend himself, and the Leader of the Opposition knows this. Where is the Leader of the Opposition's evidence? Where is the evidence to prove the point that he now makes? The matter is splashed over the headlines of all of our newspapers. He relies on an unnamed source and an unnamed person. Let him name that person. Let him name that source. Let him produce some evidence and then, with respect to him, we may think a little more of him. 
Let me now pass to perhaps a brighter subject. It is with a great sense of honour that I stand here in this chamber as the representative of a great electorate, the electorate of Braddon in Tasmania. I wish at this point in my speech to thank my constituents from all over Braddon who gave me wonderful support in the last election and who have given me the opportunity and the responsibility I now carry. I mention specifically the people of Devonport and Ulverstone, the people of the small town of Penguin on the north-west coast of Tasmania, the people of my own home town of Burnie, the people of Wynyard, the people of Smithton and Stanley in the Circular Head area, the rugged west coasters from the west coast area of Tasmania which I know you,  Mr Speaker,  know quite well, and the people from King Island. I thank all of those people and I promise them that I will speak out for them as strongly as I possibly can in their interest. 
I appreciate that I and other honourable members have an obligation in the national interest to look after the country, to protect the national interest and to put the country back on the right path again. But I am a Tasmanian and I am very proud of that fact. I say here and now that I will not shirk any issue which might be of concern or interest to my fellow Tasmanians. We have a young and vigorous team of Tasmanians in this chamber, and I am very proud indeed to make reference to them. I compliment them on the fine job they are doing for their constituents. Again, I will mention them expressly: The honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  the Minister for Repatriation, who is at the table at the moment; the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman);  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck);  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  Together we represent a mere 3 per cent of the population of this nation but we intend to get more than our three cents worth for our constituents. It would be only proper for me to mention my predecessor,  Mr Ron  Davies. I do this quite sincerely because I believe he gave meritorious service to his electorate for 1 7 years. I am sure my constituents would like me to wish him a long and happy retirement. 
The House is now dealing with two Appropriation Bills which seek the approval of this House for the appropriation to specific departments and services of an additional $506,201,000 over and above the amounts provided in Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) and Appropriation Act (No. 2) of 1975-76. 1 am delighted to be making my initial contribution in this debate on Supply legislation. Let us not understate the importance of this legislation. It is not merely formal legislation; it is not simply a matter of applying a rubber stamp. Before I go on to other matters, I should like to touch on the constitutional questions which have been raised, and which one could say have been done to death. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  have laboured this theme for some time. The arguments are now historical, but I do not think it would be fair to say that it is sour grapes on their part. I recognise the emotional content of these issues, but surely those honourable members must realise, if they think about the matter, if they look at the Constitution, that their arguments lack any basis in law or in logic. 
The vast majority of constitutional lawyers of any standing whatsoever in this country now recognise- not all of them recognised it beforethat the Senate has the power under section 52 of the Constitution to defer or reject Supply. After all, what better proof is there than that the power has now been exercised and exercised successfully. I remind the House and honourable members opposite that the Senate, and the power given to it under section 52, was fought for by Tasmania and the other smaller States and their representatives prior to Federation. I believe that they are a keystone to the Federal compact. I remind honourable members opposite of section 1 of the Constitution, to which I wish to refer: 
The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Parliament, which shall consist of the Queen, a Senate, and a House of Representatives, and which is herein-after called 'The Parliament,' or 'The Parliament of the Commonwealth.' 
It would appear that honourable members opposite do not recognise two-thirds of that definition of the Parliament. The honourable member for Adelaide in this very debate yesterday continued his attack on  His Excellency  the Governor-General, and I refer to the comments he made at page 1 945 of  Hansard.  He said: 
If anyone thinks that the royal visit next year, if we still have the present Governor-General, will be a joyous occasion he had better think again. 
Think about those words and ponder them for a moment. I suggest to the honourable member for Adelaide that he should refer to section 24A of the Crimes Act, which deals with the crime of sedition. I am not suggesting for one moment that the honourable member has committed that crime, but I would offer him the advice that perhaps before he makes further comments like that he should give consideration to that section. The honourable members to whom I have referred are pursuing their vendetta and causing bitterness and hatred within our community. Their comments and their attack, I believe, are politically naive. They are paying the price, and while they continue their attack they will continue to pay the price. 
As I have said, the legislation with which we are now dealing is not merely formal legislation. Appropriation legislation goes to the very heart of government. Government is finance and finance is government. It behoves ail of us in this House to be deeply conscious of how the Government spends the people's money. Governments do not spend Minister's money. It is the hard earned money of people- the men and women who have toiled for many hours each week of their working lives to finance government. We must not be concerned simply with millions of dollars or with hundreds of thousands of dollars. We must be concerned with individual dollars and we must be concerned also with cents. I am reminded of the comment of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  as he now is, in my electorate during the last election campaign, when he said: 
Each government must recognise and fulfil its duty as a trustee of the taxpayers' money. 
That is a most important principle. One of the fatal errors of the previous Labor Administration was its blatant breach of that duty and its gross negligence and carelessness in the manner in which it spent the people's money. Now that we are in government we must not forget that point. It was a question of too much too often; a mental condition which could be fairly described, I believe, as the  Blue Poles  syndrome. The cause was a lack of discipline. Unless leaders discipline themselves and their policies, government cannot function efficiently; it cannot satisfy the needs and aspirations of the people. Fortunately- I say this quite objectively and non-politically- we now have a government which will not shirk its responsibility to the people, which has discipline and which accepts its duty of trusteeship. 
The appropriations reveal substantial savings in a whole range of government expenditure. These must be applauded, and I believe will be applauded by the people. However, the Government must not be mesmerised by the need to save and to cut cloth. I am not suggesting that it is now so mesmerised, but it is necessary for us back benchers, us private members, to remain vigilant to ensure that the Government remains responsible, as it now is, in making its decisions. It must distinguish waste and excesses from true social need. Despite our budgetary deficit, this Government must be humane. Again I say that I offer no criticism. I believe that it is being humane. It must use its heart as well as its head. We must continue to be concerned for the aged, for the poor, for the mentally and physically handicapped, and for the less fortunate in our community and other communities in the world. We must distinguish the people in genuine need from the layabouts, the slackers and the work shy. 
Let me turn from these universal issues to some grave problems which affect my own electorate of Braddon. I mention briefly that Braddon encompasses the top left-hand corner of Tasmania, from the Mersey Valley westward to the north-west tip of Tasmania and down to the point south of Macquarie Harbour on the west coast. It includes the important island of King Island. The electorate depends very largely upon private enterprise. The end product of lavish wasteful spending by the Labor Administration was a savage beating and bruising of the private sector. Even honourable members opposite would recognise that fact. I know that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  did recognise that fact when he presented his Budget Speech last year. In my electorate we have farming, mining and manufacturing industries. All of these were affected adversely by Labor policy decisions during its period in office. The paper industry is a vital industry. I am pleased to say that, although it had a difficult time for some years and had to retrench hundreds of workers, things are now looking up. This is a vital industry in my electorate, and I am pleased that its situation is improving. 
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd is one of Australia's largest copper producers. Queenstown on the west coast, with its population of 5100 people, is almost totally dependent on the viability of this company. A combination of world copper prices and inflation brought this company almost to ruin. In the last financial year it made a trading loss of $8.2m. Again, there are some signs of recovery, with an increase in world copper prices. There are heartening indications for the people of the west coast. 
I turn to primary industry. The north west coast of Tasmania and King Island contain rich and fertile agricultural land. It is ideal land for dairying, beef and vegetable growing. A good many of our farmers are facing total ruin. Their problems cannot be overstated. I know that my colleagues in the National Country Party and the Liberal Party appreciate that these problems exist, and I really believe that the Government appreciates that these problems exist. But I believe that a good many of our farmers are being exploited by other people within the community. I do not say that this is being done knowingly or deliberately. I can almost hear the groans from the urbenites. I would like to take some of these people from the large cities who are cynical about these problems around my electorate and introduce them to some of these farmers who are in such a desparate situation. Many of them are earning genuine incomes of only $2,000 to $3,000 a year, and there are no tax lurks. They are working 80 hours a week, often with unpaid family assistance. Of course, the cynics will ask: Why do they not get off the property and sell the land? In my electorate hundreds of properties are for sale but they cannot be sold because there are no buyers available. In any event, if the properties could be sold what would the farmers do? Many of them have no other work qualifications. There is no other work that they could do. There is little work available for them. In my opinion- 1 say this humbly because there is much more that I need to know about the problems facing these farmers- the real solution to their desparate plight will not be found in the payment of unemployment benefits or the provision of short term band aid assistance although, of course, this is essential and has my full support. Their future is dependant upon a gradual reorganising and restructuring of their industry. It is time to make a total and urgent reassessment of their desparate situation. 
King Island has problems and dme does not permit me to go into them in detail. But I am conscious of the Island's problems, particularly transport problems. I hope to have at an early date an opportunity to debate in greater detail for the benefit of honourable members the problems and issues confronting King Island. There is a need to encourage industry and private enterprise. For the Australian Labor Party 'profit' is a dirty word, but I believe- I feel that my colleagues also would believe- that profit is necessary so that a business can expand. When it expands it creates job opportunities. This means higher employment. Therefore, we must give encouragement to private enterprise. The words of Professor Milton Friedman are apt and relevant to this point: 
The free enterprise system is the only system which will enable the ordinary man- the ordinary citizen- to have a maximum degree of both freedom and prosperity. 

 Mr Speaker, I am confident that the policies and initiatives of this Government will in time give Australians more freedom and a good deal more prosperity. May I, in conclusion, thank honourable members on both sides of the House for their kind reception. May I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on the most capable manner in which you are conducting the deliberations of this chamber. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport: What is happening with the promised freight equalisation scheme for Tasmania? When can we expect to see some legislation? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that the previous Government undertook to direct Government departments and instrumentalities to use only Australian produced paper? Does he agree that whilst this policy has been carried out by the Government Printer it does not appear to have been followed by many sub-contract printers, nor by such instrumentalities as Trans.Australian Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian National Line and the Australian Broadcasting Commission? TAA printed its last annual report on paper made in Wales and the ANL report was printed on Japanese paper. This has taken place at a time when Australia's paper production workers - 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of a statement prominently reported in northern Tasmanian newspapers today in which  Senator Devitt,  a Labor senator, predicts the closure of the Devonport Airport as a result of cuts in Government expenditure on transport? So that this irresponsible speculation by the honourable senator - 
It is disappointing that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  should use this opportunity to make cheap political comment about the activities of the present Government. He could not avoid, in this important debate on the vital subject of road safety, referring to  Mr Fancher  and  Mr Todd  and the old bogey of the superphosphate bounty. I cannot quite see the relevance of that subject in this debate. He could not refrain from attacking the Government's genuine support for the people who live in the country areas of Australia, and I am surprised that he should take this sort of stance in debating the Bill. He seems to be suggesting that all the credit for the Commonwealth Government's involvement in road safety should go to himself and his colleagues in the Australian Labor Party. Frankly, that is total nonsense. 
I will endeavour in the short time available to me in this debate to be as objective and as fair as I can. The legislation, of course, abolishes the Road Safety and Standards Authority. On the face of it it might appear to be a negative stand, but it will appear to be a negative stand only to those who know very little about the operation of that Authority, only if they forget the express assurances which have been given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  and only if they ignore the significant initiatives which have been taken by the Liberal and National Country Party coalition when last in power prior to December 1972. If they turn their back on all those matters, as obviously the honourable member for Shortland has, then they may be a little uneasy about this piece of legislation. But I do wish to remind honourable members of the Minister's expressed assurance which was given on 6 May 1976 in this chamber and reported at page 2027 of  Hansard,  when he said: 
This move to have the functions and activities of the Authority carried out by the Department of Transport does not in any way signify a lessening of our commitment to road safety. 
I have no cause to doubt the expressed undertaking given by the Minister. If I did, I would not be supporting this piece of legislation. The decision to carry on all the functions of the Authority within the Department of Transport will save wastage and excesses. I know that is not something which the honourable member for Shortland is concerned about, but this Government is concerned about it. In the long run it is quite likely that the saving of money will mean that more money can be spent on road safety. 
Attitudes are important and I venture to say they are as important as the black type on any piece of legislation. A government, for example, could retain an authority like the one we are now concerned with and by making surreptitious changes in financing and administration render it totally ineffective. If one is concerned with attitudes one could question why it took a government elected in December 1972- that was the Australian Labor Party Government- until May 1975 to create this Authority which of course honourable members opposite will say is so essential. Some light is thrown on the attitude of the present Government if we look quickly at the history of this piece of legislation. From November 1970 we have seen significant progress, following the Commonwealth Government's entry into the road safety field. At that time an expert committee was formed by the then Liberal-Country Party coalition Government. This Authority is really a child of that original committee, although not created until May 1975. So, my submission is that the intitiative was taken originally by our Government, not the Labor Government. 
In March 1971 the expert group to which I referred ran a national symposium on road safety. That was well before December 1972. At that symposium some 70 papers were delivered by experts from within Australia and also from overseas. After consideration of those papers and after further detailed study and consultations, it was decided to establish a national office for road safety. It was important that the Commonwealth should involve itself directly in road safety. There was a need, and of course there still is, for the Commonwealth to promote a more vigorous and rigorous national approach to the complex factors which contribute to accidents, to death and to injury on our roads. Since 1970 there has been this growing involvement by the Commonwealth Government and an increasing number of Commonwealth officers have been actively concerned in providing a broad national approach to reducing the road toll, to reducing the number of conflicting interests and to eliminating the diverse fragmentation of the institutional framework which had existed previously. 
I mentioned some of the steps that have been taken. Of course, the Road Safety and Standards Authority with which we are now dealing was created, and I am quite happy to concede that other significant initiatives were taken by the previous Labor Administration. For example, a program of traffic engineering and road safety improvements was implemented, with supporting grants to the States. A central road safety information service also was set up. The road safety research program also was greatly expanded under the previous Administration. I concede all of those matters. But let us recognise, and let honourable members opposite recognise, that the original initiative was taken in 1 970, and there was not a Labor government in power then. The Opposition cannot claim all of the kudos and cannot take all of the credit. If one accepts, as I do, the assurance of the Minister for Transport, one understands that this legislation is machinery or administrative in nature. The Authority is to be abolished. But its functions will not cease; its activities will not cease. The national road safety program will continue unabated. 
Our road toll is tragically high. However, since 1 970 there has been a significant improvement in our road safety record. There was a gradual increase in road fatalities up to 1970, when we had 3798 deaths on our roads-certainly a very tragic year. In 1971 there were 3590 deaths; in 1972, 3422- which was a drop of 376 on the 1970 figure; in 1973, 3679; and in 1974, 3569. In the 12 months ended 30 April 1976- the lastest figures available to me; that is, up to about a month ago- 3618 deaths occurred on our roads. Of course, that was still less than the 1 970 road toll. I was interested to watch the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Four Corners  last Saturday night- that is, 29 May- in which a spokesman for the National Roads and Motorists Association in New South Wales commented on the improvement in the road toll over recent years. He indicated that, from the figures available to him and the research that his organisation has done, in fact the road toll has halved in the last 15 years, taking into account the number of miles travelled by drivers and passengers in motor vehicles and the number of motor vehicles on the roads. It was indicated in that program that if the trend before 1970 had continued an additional 9000 lives would have been lost on our roads. That is certainly a staggering figure. Those involved in road safety should be applauded for the fine record those figures indicate. 
The reduction from 1970 onwards, I believe, has been due to a significant extent to seat belt legislation, which in my view has been the most effective road safety legislation ever introduced in Australia. Let us give credit to the Victorian Government for leading the world in promulgating compulsory seat belt legislation. Of course other States have since followed. The United States of America now has similar legislation. I noted with interest an article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 3 March 1976 and which indicated that the British House of Commons' had passed a Bill making the wearing of seat belts compulsory and suggesting that that would save 1000 lives in the first year of operation. So the British Parliament is now catching up. Britain is still behind its former colonies, as it has been in many social reforms of this century. 
I am pleased to say that Tasmanians- I am a Tasmanian- rate very highly indeed as safe drivers. This is confirmed by the figures issued recently by the Bureau of Statistics. Tasmania is the top State. 
-My colleague from Franklin agrees with me. Tasmania is the top State and the figures are there to prove it. In Tasmania we have 475 accidents for every 100 000 of our population, compared with Victoria, which has 481; Queensland, 539; Western Australia, 570; the Australian Capital Territory, 574; New South Wales, 848; the Northern Territory, 939; and South Australia, 1040. The figure in South Australia is 1040, compared with 475 in Tasmaniaapproximately two and a half times the Tasmanian rate. I suggest that this might be consistent with the friendly nature of the people in Tasmania and the slower pace of life in that State. But, despite the good figures in Tasmania and despite the improvements since 1970, the figures are still tragic and we have to do all we can to reduce the road toll. 1 refer to a comment made by  Dr B.  J. Campbell,  chairman  of the United States National Motor Vehicle Advisory Council. At a road safety conference in Adelaide on 25 February 1976 he was reported as saying that traffic and vehicle engineering were the most promising areas of increased safety and that advertising campaigns telling people to drive safely or not to speed were expensive empty directions. Frankly, I see a good deal of sense in  Dr Campbell's  comment. We need to look to improving our roads, our cars, our road signs and our road engineering rather than improving the physical reactions of the person or his state of mind. We can never change the basic fundamental nature of a person. Training in skills and trying to improve judgment will not provide an answer. The report of the expert group to which I have referred, entitled  Road Accident Situation in Australia 1975,  suggests that this type of training will not be effective. 
I refer also to the editorial in the  Canberra Times  of 29 October 1975 in which the same point is made about driver training. I recommend that honourable members opposite read that editorial. Similarly, I do not see the breathalyser solving the road safety problem. I recognise that its use will have to continue, but it is not the complete answer. Certainly the evidence plainly indicates a connection between drink driving and fatalities. It is suggested by experts, following research, that alcohol is a causative factor in more than 50 per cent of fatal accidents. However, the real problem is not alcohol but an underlying recklessness or carelessness which causes a person to drink and drive. 
If we are to stop people drinking and then driving, we need to look at our social values. It is quite lawful to drive to a hotel. The publican provides a large car park. There is social pressure upon a person to drink. Is it surprising that drinking and driving are linked? I am not one to suggest prohibition. People enjoy a glass of beer or whatever, and they are entitled to have one. We must change our attitudes to the use of motor vehicles in and around hotels. Certainly we need to continue to attack these vital problems. We need to continue to use the breathalyser. We must have driver education programs, despite what I have suggested, and advanced driving schools. But the main thrust of our program to improve road safety should be directed at better roads, safer vehicles, 'and also having more stringent tests to obtain a driver's licence. 
It is scandalous that the carnage on our roads, the predictable violent death of some 3600 citizens annually, does not become a major political issue. How can it be explained that this appalling and widespread violence which kills a disproportionate number of young men is not recognised as a major national disaster? Our attitudes to death and disaster are hard to explain. The Darwin tragedy, and the Tasman and Westgate bridge disasters evoked great public emotion. Yet the loss of life was small compared with the horror of the road toll. 
The present Liberal and National Country Party Government has a definite commitment to a continued improvement in road safety. I fully accept the assurance given by the Minister for Transport- he is a man of his word- that the administrative changes resulting from this present legislation will not detract from that commitment. My support for this piece of legislation is based upon that assurance that the Minister has given. I am afraid the problem of road safety will remain with us. We cannot solve it, but hopefully the Commonwealth Government can continue to make a significant contribution towards controlling it. 
-We have not yet had an opportunity to debate in this place the transport problems confronting residents of the mainland of Tasmania and Bass Strait Islands, including King Island and Flinders Island. My understanding was that the critical issue would have been before the House by this stage, in the form either of legislation or some positive ministerial statement. All the available evidence clearly establishes that the high cost of shipping compared with road and rail transport constitutes a definite financial disability for Tasmanian industries and for the people of the State.  Mr J.  F. Nimmo, who conducted the commission of inquiry into transport to and from Tasmania, issued his report on 5 March 1 976. That is almost 3 months ago. There is widespread concern in Tasmania at the delay in introducing some form of transport cost assistance scheme. Whilst appreciating the complexity of the task of formulating a workable scheme I would be failing in my duty as the representative of the people of Braddon if I did not echo their concern over the delay. I trust the matter will be attended to at an early date, in addition to the general freight assistance schemes which have been promised. I now resume my seat in order to allow the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  to make a speech. 
I congratulate the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  on raising such important subjects and speaking so sincerely about them. Shortly before the recent recess I spoke on the important Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme and I recall,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you were in the chair on that occasion. I made some mildly critical comments at that time about delays which had occurred in implementing this important scheme and I feel it is only proper that I should now compliment the Minister concerned and the Government on implementing the scheme so expeditiously. 
-That might be so. The scheme commenced on 1 July. It is a most important reform for Tasmania and I believe it will ensure the future stability and prosperity of the Tasmanian economy. I think in early 1973 the previous Labor Administration made certain hollow promises about assisting Tasmania with its freight problem and, of course, that Administration was in office for 3 years and nothing was done. No action was taken. Now we see that a Government which has been in power for only 6 months has implemented the scheme. I concede that there are problems with the scheme. It is a unique scheme; it is a new scheme. Naturally there will be difficulties with it. There are problems in determining the categories of goods which will be eligible for assistance. In my electorate of Braddon we have an important cheese industry but cheese is not included in the categories of goods. This is probably because of some misconception. However, representations have been made to the Government and the Minister and I trust that something will be done to include cheese in the scheme. There are other such commodities and one that comes to mind is potatoes. This is another important commodity produced on the north-west coast of Tasmania. At the moment the scheme does not operate as favourably for that industry as it might. I hope that the scheme will be implemented in such a way as to give the potato industry access to the important Sydney market. 
There are review provisions available in the scheme which will enable industries of all kinds to make application upon appropriate grounds for inclusion in the scheme. The point I want to make tonight is that the Government and the Minister should be congratulated on ensuring that the scheme operated within the time limit proposed. It was suggested originally that the scheme would commence operating on 1 July and that deadline was met. It is a complex scheme. The Minister and the Department had a difficult task but they did the job very well. When it is operating fully I believe the scheme will enhance the prosperity of Tasmania. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the confusion existing in both Tasmania and South Australia over the transfer of the State railway services and the resultant low morale of railway employees? Can he assure the House that the transfer is going ahead and will be finalised at the earliest opportunity? 
I suggest that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  was attempting to make political capital out of a deep human tragedy. I remind him that this Government has done more for handicapped children than has any other government since Federation. Today we have had people from the shipbuilding industry in and around this place. These men plainly have a genuine grievance. Their jobs are threatened, and we all must be concerned about their plight; but there are other people in the community with similar problems. In the time available to me I wish to draw to the attention of honourable members, the public generally and even the shipbuilding people of the serious disadvantages being suffered by people living in country areas. 
There exists in these areas an economic and social crisis of considerable magnitude. We, as members of the national Parliament, must understand the problems and take urgent action to overcome them. According to the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, 20 to 30 per cent of all primary producers are living below the poverty line. In the financial year 1974-75 approximately one-fifth of farmers had incomes of $1,000 or less. This is below the annual income of people receiving unemployment benefits. I am speaking now of people who work full time- up to 80 hours a week- with help from members of their families, for a miserable return of $1,000 or less. For many farmers last year's return was lower than for the previous year. The latest Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures indicate that many dairy farmers in particular had a negative income return for the last financial year; that is, they had no income at all and in fact lost money. Farmers are becoming angry, and really we cannot blame them for that. 
This crisis has gone beyond the point where it can be classified as an industrial problem. It is a grave personal, human problem. Hundreds of thousands of Australians are barely existing. Mothers cannot buy groceries, shoes, school uniforms and basic family needs. Not only farmers are suffering, but also people employed by farmers, farm labourers, shopkeepers, small business people in country towns, and indeed all the residents of these areas and their families. The tragic plight of country people is of great concern to me as a Tasmanian, because in Tasmania a higher proportion of the population resides in rural areas- 26 per cent, compared with 14 per cent in Australia as a whole. Incomes are pathetically low; yet costs of all the daily requirements, including of course the cost of transport and communications, are considerably higher than for people living in the city areas. 
The crisis cannot be seen simply in economic terms. The social disadvantages are enormous. A special study conducted by  Mr Neville  Behrens of the Education Department of Tasmania will be of considerable interest to honourable members. I take this opportunity to thank  Mr Behrens  for his courtesy in sending me a copy of his report. I congratulate him on the quality of that report. The study focuses on the inequalities in schooling between country children and city children and between socially advantaged and disadvantaged children. It reveals most dramatically the inequality which exists, and in particular the poor deal country children in Tasmania are getting at present. A table at page 39 of the report shows that 1 7 per cent of children in urban areas reach grade 1 1, whilst only 9 per cent of country children attain that standard. Further, 13 per cent of children from urban areas reach grade 12 but only 6 per cent of country children reach that level. That is less than half the city figure. So an increase in the size of a population centre is associated with an increased opportunity for higher education. I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard. 

<graphic href="100131197608260_25_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I refer also to a report entitled  Rural Health in Australia  prepared by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission which was only recently published. This report makes it clear that many people living in country areas do not obtain adequate health care. There is a shortage of doctors, dentists and other health services and personnel. Even when adequate care might be available at a provincial centre access may be impeded by lack of public transport or poor roads. The economic and social disadvantages suffered by country people are to be deplored. We have a national responsibility to these people. Their great problems have been neglected for too long by both State and Federal governments. The main thrust of Australian Labor Party policy was towards improving conditions in the great cities. Country people were the main victims of Labor's economic mismanagement and doctrinaire social experiment. I believe that the direction has changed, because the present Federal Government accepts the concept of the equality of opportunity for everyone regardless of where they reside. However, this change of direction must be accelerated. I strongly recommend to all honourable members the 2 reports to which I have referred because they so clearly identify these injustices which now exist. 
I rise somewhat belatedly, but at prime time, to congratulate the Government on a Budget which can be classified only as an extremely sound one. Certainly our great economic ills will not be solved overnight. I refer to the great economic ills created by the previous Labor Government. But there will be a gradual, steady recovery, and when it does come it will be a soundly based recovery. It will be genuine and it will be lasting. What a nerve honourable members opposite have to stand up and criticise. They had long years in which to try to do something about the situation, and they failed. What did they achieve? They achieved complete disaster. They let down the Australian nation. They were rejected by the people. I think it is fair to say that the Opposition claims to have 2 economic experts. They are the present spokesman on Treasury matters, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  and the former spokesman on Treasury matters and former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 
That is true, too. As one would expect, both those gentlemen made negative, critical speeches on the Budget. However, it is interesting that when one reads their speeches with some care, one sees that their criticism was lukewarm and half-hearted in relation to the general Budget strategy of the Government. In fact, I think it is fair to say that underneath these so-called experts really agree with the Government's approach. The honourable member for Adelaide in particular recognises that there are now signs of recovery. I commend him for the honesty which he displayed in his speech and his frankness. Certainly the honourable member had to play out his particular role as Opposition spokesman on Treasury matters. So he piously criticised the Government for what he called 'an obsession with inflation'. In his speech he also used the phrase 'a fixation on the size of the deficit'. Perhaps his Government should have had that obsession and that fixation. If it had had these things it may have been more effective. 
Neither the honourable member for Adelaide nor the honourable member for Oxley made any significant constructive suggestions. From my recollection, having read their speeches, they made perhaps a couple of suggestions. One was the scrapping of the investment allowance, and I think the honourable member for Adelaide suggested that the Medibank levy should be reduced but, of course, not abolished. Their speeches were heavy on political diatribe and humbug and light on helpful, positive comment. 
This Government clearly recognises the need to control inflation. That is the Government's prime objective. I give the honourable member for Oxley some slight credit in that he realises the need to concentrate on that particular issue. Indeed he realised that when he presented his first Budget- and I might say his last Budget- in August 1 975 when he said: 
Economic recovery will only be restored by way of gradual policies firmly grounded upon an effective antiinflationary foundation. 
He has changed his tack slightly since then, but I think he still realises underneath that we must control inflation. All Western nations, regardless of political persuasion, agree with our great objective, namely that the control of inflation is essential to economic recovery. How will we overcome inflation? That, of course, is the key question. Plainly Australia has been the victim of cost-push inflation, and one of the key elements of that push has been the excessive wage demands over the past 3 years. Wages make up a substantial part of the costs in any business, whether it be a small retail business, a large paper manufacturer- I have one in my electorateor a dairy factory. I have a few dairy factories in my electorate. 
-Yes, quite a few. It could be any other type of business. All Australians know that wages have gone up dramatically since 1973. But the ordinary wage earner, the worker, is no better off- I think he realises that- because he cannot control the price of the things he buys, and that is unfortunate. He is the price taker and not the price maker. Normally increased wages can be adequately financed by growth and productivity. When there is real growth the workers who create that growth must share in the rewards, in the profits. That is only fair. There has been no growth, particularly between 1972 and 1975. So the excessive wage increases have been achieved at the expense of the jobs of other employees. If this Government is to tackle successfully the dual problems of inflation and unemployment it must slow down the rate of wage increases. I am sure that the workers of this country will see the sense in the Government's strategy. They would rather have a lower rate of inflation in 12 months time, at the expense of completely illusory money wage increases. They would rather keep their jobs or have a better chance of getting a job. 
On 13 December the Government was given a massive mandate to beat inflation and unemployment. It has pursued a consistent strategy to carry out that mandate. Australia now has a unique opportunity to take its place again as a country with one of the healthiest economies and highest living standards in the world. That opportunity will be lost unless we recognise the problem areas and unless there is co-operation from all sections of the Australian community. The Labor Government certainly did not recognise the problem areas. It deliberately encouraged the wage push. It unwittingly created today's tragic level of unemployment It unwittingly caused its own staggering defeat or thrashing. The Labor Government's attitude was expressed clearly when it sought to influence the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the hearing of the 1973 national wage case. The Commission, in its judgment, said: 
It is the Commonwealth 's opinion that there is scope in the capacity and flexibility of the Australian economy for an appreciable increase in wages without undesirable inflationary consequences. 
How wrong that opinion held by the then Commonwealth Government was. In addition, the Labor Government adopted a policy of making the Public Service a pacesetter in wage payments and other benefits. Knowing the Government's attitude of supporting the unions at any cost, some trade unions- not all- felt free to pursue any wage claims that they chose. The desire to preserve wage and income relativities meant that one large settlement quickly spread to others and soon was transmitted through the entire economy. This was Labor's greatest mistake. It was the primary cause of its shattering defeat last year- the greatest thrashing since Federation. 
The Government's wages policy is central to its approach to bringing inflation under control. It is central to reducing unemployment. Let me stress here and now that the Fraser Government and all Liberal Party and National Country Party back benchers are desperately concerned about the tragically high unemployment figures. We are genuinely concerned. These high figures were caused by Labor's mismanagement. The issue of unemployment is under continual discussion by the Government, by the Government Parties and by back benchers, and is under constant examination. We take no joy in seeing the figures. We appreciate the terrible  effect  of unemployment upon a person. Nothing is more dehumanising that not having a job to go to. 
Nothing is more shattering to a person's character and personality than to be rejected time and time again be prospective employers. 
-We will. Unemployment is the key  indicium  of recovery. With high unemployment there is no recovery. This is why wage restraint is so critical and so essential. Of course, it cannot be all one way. The Government must provide some benefits to employees if they are to moderate their wage claims. It is arguable that the first vital momentum towards recovery has been created by the introduction of personal income tax indexation and the new family allowance scheme. Those schemes will mean more money in people's pockets- something like $ 1,400m over 12 months- and therefore will reduce the wage-push pressure. In addition, they will increase the capacity of people to purchase consumer items, which is so vital to our recovery. 
I refer very briefly to the family allowance scheme. It is one of this country's most significant social reforms. It will assist greatly 300 000 families and 800 000 children in this country. Many of my colleagues, on this side in particular, have been advocating increases in child endowment for some time. Together we warmly welcome the decision of this Government. Let us look at the figures, because they are significant. They are very high figures. The scheme will make a great difference to many families, particularly the poorer families in the community. The payment for one child is $3.50 a week, for 2 children $8.50 a week, for 3 children $14.50 a week, for 4 children $20.50 a week, and thereafter $7 a week for each additional child. The Leader of the Opposition said that this Government has no concern for women and children. What utter rubbish that is. It is a matter of amazement to me that the Labor Government did not act on this aspect of the report of Professor Henderson's commission of inquiry into poverty. 
Those opposite who are now interjecting must surely regret that. Of course, child endowment has been with us for some decades. The true value of the endowment has been eroded by the reduced purchasing power of the dollar. The people who suffered from that erosion unfortunately were the poor, the underprivileged, the people in greatest need, the people who were ignored by the Labor Government. 
Tax deductions previously given aided only the higher income earners and the wealthy. Those were the people with whom the Labor 
Government was apparently concerned. The greater your income, the more assistance you received. How much more sensible and how much more equitable is a system of substantial tax repayments of the type recommended by Professor Henderson, now introduced by this Government. Professor Henderson did consider the question of making the family allowances taxable. Others have suggested that unless family allowances are means tested or made taxable, substantial sums of money will go to the welltodo and inequities will result. The fact is, of course, that endowment is paid to the mother in most cases and under our system people are taxed as individuals. The mother's income is assessed and taxed separately from that of the father. Since only a minority of women earn separate incomes, naturally most pay no tax. If these allowances were taxable, little would be gained and there would be high administrative costs. I believe that the Government's approach on this matter is the correct one. Generally the Budget is very well balanced. It will help to stimulate business whilst protecting the needy and protecting also the key areas of expenditure, health and welfare, including pensions of all kinds, education and defence. I mention in particular social welfare. Let us quickly look at the figures. The total expenditure for this financial year is $6, 187m; that is 25 per cent of the total Budget outlay. It is an increase of 23.5 per cent on last year. The increase alone is greater than the total allocation of only 6 years ago. Pensions are up to $43.50 for single pensioners; $72.50 is the married rate, an increase of $3 70m in the Budget outlays. These pensions are adjusted to increase automatically with the consumer price index figures; there is removal of the property means test on pensions; war pensions and service pensions have been increased significantly. This is an additional cost to the Government of $82m. Invalid pensions are increased, the handicapped children's allowance is increased by 50 per cent. How important this is for those with handicapped children. The handicapped children's benefit is up 43 per cent; the total of these 2 allowances and benefits is $6.4m additional cost to the Government. 
This Government is genuinely concerned about the needy people in our  community.  I want to turn to farmers, people about whom I am most concerned, particularly in my electorate but also throughout this country. I must confess that I have some reservations in this area of the Budget. There is a lack of effective assistance for some sections of primary industry. Many rural industries are in a critical situation. I mention dairying and beef, apples and pears; each of these is a key industry in my electorate and in Tasmania. The problems are essentially tied with marketing. 
I realise, as does the Government, that there are great difficulties in providing adequate and lasting solutions to these problems. But many of the forms of assistance that are provided in the Budget, and they are substantial for some people, do not do very much for other people within primary industries. I mentioned the superphosphate bounty, the income equalisation deposit scheme, the investment allowance, the dairy adjustment scheme and rural reconstruction. These, unfortunately, have not greatly assisted the smaller farmers on the north west coast of Tasmania and on King Island, especially the dairy farmers who are somehow, and I do not know quite how, managing to survive on extremely low, and even in some cases, nonexistent incomes. I want to stress their grave plight. 
They are a wonderful race of people. They are decent hardworking Australians and they were ignored for 3 years by the Labor Government but they are in a grave plight. This Government must recognise it. In 1971-72 the price for butterfat was about 70c per lb or slightly more compared with a price now of about 45c and less per lb in some areas. But at the same time costs have risen alarmingly. In my view, to maintain parity with prices 4 years ago dairy farmers would now need about 95c per lb, and as I say, they are receiving 45c per lb. This is a desperate situation. Many farmers in the older age group are tied to dairying and cannot get out even if they wanted to. They cannot get buyers for their properties at fair values. They cannot get other employment and so must continue milking twice daily 7 days a week. We need to help these people out of the industry on a voluntary basis so that they may settle in reasonable comfort in their local towns. 
At the present time production of dairy products is plainly excessive and this means that produce is given away at low prices, restricting and depressing the whole industry. There is a need for a greater sense of urgency- a greater understanding of the disappointment of those decent, hard working Australians that effective help has not been forthcoming. As I said earlier, these people were the victims of the Labor Government's 3 years reign. We have to make sure that we do not let them down. I know this GovernmentI say this in fairness- is desperately concerned about this situation and is doing a great deal about it. I simply take this opportunity to stress the plight of these people. Apart from that reservation, I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government on a sensible, sound Budget which will undoubtedly in timenot immediately- lead to a steady economic recovery in this country. 
-Does the Prime Minister have any information indicating whether visits by nuclear-powered warships to Tasmania will be welcomed by the Government of that State and whether they are likely to take place without industrial unrest? 
-The Bill presently before the House is not complex. The clauses are few in number, and I intend to be brief in my comments on them. In essence, the legislation creates power to prescribe fees, payable on the filing of documents in the divorce jurisdiction, as well as creating a power to exempt persons from the payment of such fees. In addition, the Bill clarifies certain provisions of the principal Act- the Family Law Act- relating to maintenance and custody where the child or children concerned are in the care of State welfare authorities. I believe it is important for the public to realise that this legislation does not alter to any significant degree the fundamental principles of the Family Law Act. Those remain unaltered. 
The principal Act was the result of many years of campaigning to make the law relating to marriage breakdown more realistic and more humane and to ensure that those made most vulnerable in a divorce situation, normally the wife and children, are absolutely and adequately protected. The principal Act, enacted last year, replaces the existing Australian laws of divorce and nullity of marriage and supersedes State and Territory laws of maintenance, custody and property relating to marriages and to the children of marriages. It creates the Family Court of Australia and provides for the establishment of State Family Courts. It provides counselling and advice services, not only to assist in reconciliation but also to help persons who are separated or divorced. It abandons the fault concept to a large degree and provides only one ground for divorce, namely the irretrievable breakdown of marriage based upon evidence of one year's separation. I want to stress that these important provisions remain unaltered. 
Let us look briefly at the fee situation which appears to be the only issue in contention in this place today. I cannot see how anyone could reasonably object to the payment of fees on the filing of divorce applications. Therefore I believe that the amendment should be accepted by all members of this Parliament. The amount of the fee, of course, is not specified in the Act itself. The Act merely creates the power to set a fee. All honourable members have an opportunity to scrutinise the regulations. The Government, of course, has announced that the fee will be $60 on the filing of each application after 1 October. No fees are payable on maintenance and custody applications as such or upon applications for ancillary relief. No fees are payable on affidavits and other documents that might be filed in the Family Court. I do not believe that the fee is excessive. It is in line with fees payable previouslyfees that were abolished in, I think, 1 973. If inflation is taken into account, I believe that the fee of $60 payable on the filing of an application is not excessive. 
I want to make some other points to the House. Firstly, people who use the facilities of the Family Court- its staff, its buildings, its documents and forms, its equipment and servicesshould make some contribution to the costs which would otherwise be borne by the community at large. I am not suggesting that we should penalise those who have the misfortune to be involved in divorce suits; that certainly must not be the case. It is simply not the kind of essential service that should be totally free, totally subsidised by the public. Generally those people who use civil courts, who seek redress of one kind or another- for example, compensation or damages- must contribute towards the costs involved in the court proceedings. They must pay some fees. Filing fees are payable in almost all jurisdictions- in the local courts or magistrates' courts, in the Supreme Court, in the High Court. In almost all other legal matters going before a court sitting in any type of jurisdiction fees are payable on applications, on affidavits and on notices of all kinds. If, for example, a person wants to collect a small debt, he must pay a fee on the summons. If a person wants to dispute or defend that debt then he must pay a fee on filing a defence or a notice of intention to defend. It is only right, therefore, that some fee should be payable in divorce cases as well. It is only an extension of the 'user pays' principle. But the once-only fee of $60 would certainly not cover the actual cost involved in court proceedings; nor would it cover the costs generally of the services that are provided. The actual cost, I believe, would be hundreds of dollars. So we are talking about an amout of $60, which might appear to be a large amount but which is a relative small contribution towards the actual cost. 
People can be exempted from the payment of these fees under the legislation now before the House. There will be automatic exemption if the person qualifies, for legal aid. So again there is evidence that the Government is concerned about the needy and believes that the needy in the community must be assisted. The purpose of the fee, as has been stated by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott),  is to provide further funds to meet the rising costs of legal aid. Eighty per cent of Commonwealth funds for legal aid matters referred to private legal practitioners is in respect of matters arising under the Family Law Act. In this years Budget $20m has been allocated for legal aid; $9. 5m will go to the legal profession for services rendered in assisting people in need; 80 per cent of the $9.5m will therefore be for family law matters. The total expected to be derived from the fees that will be payable after 1 October is $2.8m. However, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  $2. 8m against a total Budget allocation of $20m for legal aid indicates that not a great deal of money is involved in this. 
I support the legislation. It is reasonable that fees be charged on divorce applications because, as I said, fees are paid in relation to almost all other jurisdictions. The proposed fee of $60 as a once-only fee on such applications in itself is not excessively high. The income received will enable the Commonwealth Government to continue to provide excellent legal aid services for those people in the community who are in need of such services. 
Before concluding I want to mention briefly one matter which, although not directly on all fours with this particular Bill, nevertheless is, I believe, relevant on this occasion. Section 97 (3) of the principle Act provides,  inter alia,  that the Family Court shall proceed without undue formality. In many instances, the Court continues to be quite formal and, I believe, impersonal. The hearings are usually held in court rooms, with the judge sitting on the bench looking down on the parties and the witnesses. I believe that people are still overawed by the proceedings and the formality. I do not think the Family Court will fulfil its purpose or achieve the standing it will need to have to administer effectively the Family Law Act, and the family law jurisdiction, until it eliminates, as far as possible, legalism and formality from its proceedings. The public certainly wants less formality. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table from an English article titled  Judicial Hearings of Undefended Divorce Petitions  by Elizabeth Elston. The table is very short and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The Prime Minister will recall that the Treasurer announced in his Budget Speech that Commonwealth assistance to local government would be increased from $80m to $ 1 40m, an increase over last year of 75 per cent. I ask: Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that many local councils in various parts of Australia are now increasing their rates by 20 per cent and more? Further, can the Prime Minister explain to the House why the substantially escalated Commonwealth contribution to local government has not resulted in reduced percentage increases in rates for this financial year? 
I am pleased that the honourable member for Corio,  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned the tremendous problems that my State of Tasmania has in the transport field. I am somewhat surprised that he did mention our problems in Tasmania because his Party and his Government- the Whitlam Governmentfailed very dismally in their 3 years in office. The Whitlam Government did absolutely nothing to remove the great economic disadvantages suffered by Tasmania because of its physical separation from the mainland. During those 3 years between 1972 and the end of 1975 there was a great deal of talk by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  and I might say by former Labor members of this House, but nothing was achieved. What a marked contrast between that lack of effort and interest of the previous Government and the great effort and interest of this present Government, and of the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is now at the table. 
Immediately upon taking over the portfolio the present Minister ordered that  Mr Nimmo,  the person heading the Commission of Inquiry into Transport Charges to and from Tasmania, should complete his report and issue his recommendations. Within 6 months of the present Government taking office we had that report. Quite properly, the Minister then consulted interested people in Tasmania in particular, and individuals and industries to find out their views on  Mr Nimmo  's recommendations. Then, quite remarkably, on 1 July the northbound freight equalisation scheme was put into operation. That scheme is unique. It is a complex scheme and contains a great amount of detail. I believe that its implementation by 1 July was a significant achievement by the Government and by the present Minister, and I think the Minister should be praised. A great deal of praise for the scheme has come from the public in Tasmania, from people involved in public life in that State, from industry spokesmen, and indeed from a whole cross section of the Tasmanian community. At this time, I believe that it might be appropriate to mention the great assistance rendered in Tasmania by the Honourable Max Bingham, the present Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania. He had much to do with the initial formulation of the scheme, with his recognised deep concern for Tasmania, his drive and his enthusiasm. I compliment him on his efforts. 
In the estimates which are now before the Committee substantial funds- $ 16m- have been allocated for the scheme of which I now speak. The Budget also includes subsidies of $2m for the  Empress of Australia  passenger service to and from Tasmania and $2. 8m in retrospective payments for losses incurred by the Australian Shipping Commission on the Tasmanian run in 1975-76. This scheme is vital to Tasmania. Already it is providing new opportunities for primary and secondary industry in that State. It will do much to encourage new industry to Tasmania and to provide the State with a sound economic future. Again, I commend the Government and the Minister on this magnificent new scheme. 
I take the opportunity to draw the Minister's attention to some of  Mr Nimmo  's recommendations which have not yet been implemented. I speak in particular of assistance for people travelling by air between the Bass Strait IslandsKing Island and Flinders Island- and the mainland. The Commission of Inquiry recognised the special problems of the people on those islands and the report contains one of  Mr Nimmo  's few specific recommendations. In respect of King Island,  Mr Nimmo  recommended that a subsidy of $7.50 per adult passenger fare between the Island and the mainland should be paid. I stress to the Minister that such assistance is needed. The economy of King Island in particular is in a very bad way at the moment. A further recommendation, not yet implemented, relates to the suggestion for a daylight sea passenger service between the mainland and Tasmania providing a return crossing in 24 hours, with an express cargo service by night. I believe that that suggestion has a great deal of merit and could be of great benefit to the Tasmanian tourist industry. I know that these matters are being looked at by the Minister, but I do support them and trust that something will be done about them in the near future. 
I want to touch briefly on another issue which is current in my State- the north-west airports at Wynyard and Devonport. There is a real need to maintain and upgrade these 2 airports to service the north-west coast area of Tasmania. The 
Government has undertaken to maintain the airports, which are vital links in the Tasmanian air transport system. Again I mention that  Mr Nimmo  found expressly in his report that these 2 airports were needed and were essential for the north-west coast. That statement can be found at page 1 86 of his report. I do not believe that the 2 airports are suited to the local ownership plan. Therefore, I do not believe that they should be transferred to local authorities. As I understand it, the plan is used predominantly to transfer ownership of airports serving local community needs to local community authorities, and the airports on the north-west coast do not serve only local community needs. In fact they serve some 12 municipalities on the north-west and west coasts of Tasmania. There is not simply one local government authority with particular concern for these airports but a whole range of different municipalities and different areas. I would not therefore support any suggestion that the airports should be taken over by local authorities. It must be recognised that the people of Tasmania can travel only by sea and air between the mainland and Tasmania, and that in itself gives these airports special status. 
I believe that we must also consider the figures relating to passengers travelling by air and using the airports and the movements at the airports. The latest figures available for the 12 months to 31 December 1974 show that the number of passengers using the Wynyard airport in that 12-month period totalled 95 43 1 and the Devonport airport 105 447. Those figures alone indicate that the airports are very important. . Looking at the whole of Australia they rate very highly as airports. I believe that they should be maintained and upgraded and controlled by the Commonwealth Government and not by local authorities. As I said, the Government has undertaken to retain them, and I trust that it will upgrade them. There is a need at the moment for new facilities at the Devonport airport in particular, and I suggest to the Minister that he look very carefully at the submissions made by the Commission in relation to the north-west airports. I know that he has a copy of the submissions. 
It is always a great pleasure to follow the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  because his arguments contain many flaws.  His  argument today was no exception. Surprisingly, he concealed the great neglect of the Labor Government in the area of public transport between 1972 and 1975, a neglect which to a very large degree led to the defeat of that Government in December of last year. The Bill now before the House appropriates some $20m to meet the cost increases of projects approved under the terms of the joint Commonwealth-State Urban Public Transport Agreement. This year's Budget allocation for urban public transport was $44.6m, and with the further $20m now being provided by this legislation the total allocation is $64.6m. It must be noted that this is a 90 per cent increase over the $33.8m advanced by the Labor Government last year- a 90 per cent increase, which is very significant indeed. 
The honourable member for Shortland was not accurate in one matter he mentioned which is specifically relevant to this legislation. He said that the assistance provided by the Commonwealth in the area of urban transport programs was initiated in 1974 by the Whitlam Government. That is quite untrue. In fact, the origins of the urban public transport improvement program go back to 1971. 1 remind the honourable member of that fact, and I remind him also of a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council held in July 1971. Following that meeting, a report was prepared by those attending which was presented to the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon).  A firm commitment was then made for the Commonwealth to assist in improving urban public transport. So the origins go right back to 1971 and not to 1974, as the honourable member suggested. 
-The honourable member should consider the facts and stop concealing them, as he seems to do every time he speaks in this House. Throughout the program between 1972 and 1975 the Labor Government attempted to force its views upon the States, and I think we must consider that point in some detail. The Labor Government failed to recognise the degree of competence exhibited by State instrumentalities and departments. The Labor Government imposed inflexible administrative requirements upon the States and the departments. For example, it had a policy where finance for rolling stock was limited on a year to year basis, and I believe that placed the States in an untenable position and disrupted the whole program. We should not be surprised that those things occurred because, of course, the Labor Government was a socialist government. It wanted to create a powerful central government here in Canberra. The taking over and control of public transport is a pre-requisite to the establishment of a socialist state, and one must concede that the Labor Government had some success in that area. As evidence of that we have to look only at the state of the South Australian and Tasmanian railways, which were taken over during this period by the Labor Government. As part of the socialist scheme, the Labor Government expanded its control in the field of transport. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne should admit the facts. He should come clean and admit his Party's intentions. That was why his Party was defeated in the last election. 
What is the Commonwealth Government's real role in the area of urban transport? I believe that all levels of government- local government, State government and the Commonwealth government- have a role to play. They must all work together in a co-operative way. However, there needs to be an overall plan, and I think that is lacking at the present time. Nothing was done in those 3 years about an overall plan, and something must and will be done in the current 3 years to meet the nation's needs. I think that is where the Commonwealth Government can be of greatest assistance. We need to have a clearly defined national transport policy. So many of the reports, the plans, the strategy that have been written and developed over the years have been confined to one limited area of transport, whether it be urban, rural, interstate or international, whether it be road, rail, sea or air. We need an integrated and co-ordinated national transport plan. We have enormous transport problems in Australia. We must travel long distances between our cities, and when we reach our cities we find that they are too heavily congested. Of course, our cities contain over two-thirds of the total population. Similarly, we have a relatively small population within Australia of some 14 million people and therefore our commercial domestic markets are small. We need to engage heavily in overseas trade, and again we are removed from our great trading partners by many thousands of miles- all part of our transport problems. 
I return to my point that the future of this country, including its economic future, will depend very heavily upon developing an efficient and effective national transport system, including as an integral part an urban transport system. Let me say that the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and this Government have an appreciation of the urgent need for improvements to the urban transport system, an appreciation which unfortunately was lacking during the Labor reign. As evidence of this appreciation we now have a 90 per cent increase in the Commonwealth Government's allocation to the program for 1 976-77. 
A 90 per cent increase- note that. The honourable member cannot dispute the facts. They are there, and the Opposition is supporting the Bill. The honourable member has said that we are concealing the facts. There is some duplicity on his part. He has said that there is some deception in this Bill, and yet he supports it wholeheartedly, does he not? Of course he does. I refer to the second reading speech of the Minister in which he said: 
We are all aware of the benefits and costs which are attributable to urban travel by private  motor  vehicles. There is a growing belief that these costs tend to outweigh the benefits to the community at large. We are therefore anxious to assist the States to provide improved public transport services to relieve congestion and pollution on suburban streets. 
I think that one of the key factors of urban transport is the tendency to rely so very heavily on the private motor vehicle. I must give the honourable member for Shortland some credit here because I think that he showed some appreciation of this problem in his speech. 
I am giving the honourable member some credit for this. However, I thought that there was some misconception in what he actually said because he quoted some bare financial facts on the costs of operating motor vehicles. One aspect of car usage which is often neglected is the real cost of the car to the community at large.  Dr Matalon,  in his paper entitled  The Psychological Factors of Choice  presented at an International Symposium on Theory and Practice in Transport Economics, stated: 
A true appreciation of the role of costs in the choice of mode of transport is complicated by the ignorance of most motorists - and some honourable members perhaps- of the cost of a trip and the ambiguity surrounding its definition. The car is compared with public transport by setting a definite and generally well known value against a vague, ill defined and little known value (for the car). 
The direct cost to the user who owns a car appears to be simply petrol, wear and tear and the depreciation of the vehicle itself as the honourable member for Shortland thought the position to be. I submit that the real cost includes many other factors. I mention some of them because I think it is important to know these things. There is the question of pollution. The motor car generates sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydro-carbons from unburnt fuel, photochemical pollutants which damage the ozone layer, and noise pollution most of which we would all concede present dangers to the health of the city dweller in particular. In the United States of America, internal combustionpropelled vehicles, including diesel vehicles, produce 39 per cent by weight of the total emissions while in Australia- these facts are very interesting 63 per cent of emitted carbon monoxide is caused by the motor car and has been measured at approximately 3.7 million tons a year. So we are looking at a variation of figures between America and Australia of 39 per cent compared with 63 per cent. 
Secondly, of course, we have the question of the road safety factor and the number of road accidents. I simply remind the House that for 12 months to 30 April 1976- these are the latest figures available to me- 3618 Australians were killed in road accidents. Of course, very sadly many more were seriously injured. In each year the number of victims appears to increase in almost direct proportion to the increase in the number of motor cars on the road. Again, here is an enormous cost in life and   manhours  which could be looked at in purely financial terms if we like. But if we do that, we are looking at a very small proportion of the story of the enormous cost involved. Furthermore, we have a class of people who could be called I think quite properly the public transport captives. In any city there are many people who are unable to use a private car. These include young people, elderly people, the poor, housewires and the sick. As I say, many of these people are captives of public transport. Due to the worsening state of public transport and the greater reliance on the private motor car, these people it can be said are living in some degree of transport poverty. They have their range of choice greatly reduced. This choice covers the place of work, education, entertainment and recreation and their ability to sustain contact with people from over a wide geographical area. The city, by placing its reliance so heavily on the private car, continues to disregard the needs of members of this socially disadvantaged group so isolating them more and more into a narrow neighbourhood group. 
Furthermore, there is also the cost in time. The motorist, by using his car, is increasing road congestion and so delaying himself and others. The driver tends to value his wasted time and tends not to consider equally the time of other people. In the market place time is considered a scarce resource and, as such, commands a positive prize. A person values his time during working hours in terms of remuneration, while the firm values his time in terms of productivity. I believe that non-working time should be considered in the same way, to be determined in terms of its scarcity. Under this concept, the economic advantage of driving a private car is greatly reduced. 
There is the question of road costs which is another area of costs often ignored when we are thinking of the cost of the private vehicle. One of the major costs of car usage is the cost to the community of the construction and maintenance of roads, especially freeways. The cost of freeways in this day and age is tremendous. I have some figures on the cost of freeways in 1973. 
They could probably be doubled to bring them up to date, taking into account the rate of inflation at present. I look at 3 categories of figures on the cost of freeways in 1973. From 0 to 3 miles from the city centre the estimated cost is $4.5m a mile, from 3 to 5 miles from the city centre the cost is $2.Sm a mile, and from S to 10 miles from the city centre the cost is $2m a mile. Freeways tend to separate communities physically, turning a peaceful neighbourhood into a continual drone of traffic. Another cost to the community in building freeways is the social consequence of rehousing people to make way for the freeways. 
I refer now to the energy considerations. My colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has a special interest in this subject. The oil cuts imposed by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries have forced Japanese and Europeans back to public transport. The report of the Committee on Solar Energy Research in Australia by the Australian Academy of Science predicts that Australia has only 10 years of oil reserves left. Approximately three-tenths of Australia's total energy budget goes to power various forms of transport. Petroleum provides at least 95 per cent of this fraction. The concept of transportation efficiency can be directly related to the amount of fuel used per unit of transportation. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  a document which sets out the energy consumption for various forms of city transport, from which it can be seen that buses and urban trains have transportation efficiencies two or three times higher than that of the motor car. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister would be aware of the widespread criticism within the meat export industry of the so-called Mackey scheme and of suggestions made by reliable people that some States will suffer substantial reductions in export market opportunities as a direct result of the scheme. Does the Minister agree that the Government, not the Australian Meat Board, has the ultimate responsibility for seeing that any scheme adopted is as fair as possible to all States and all sectors of the industry? Will he now indicate what action he proposes to take to ensure that no State is disadvantaged by the Mackey scheme? 
-The Prime Minister would be aware of the decision of the Mount Lyell Mining &amp; Railway Co. Ltd in Tasmania to retrench 400 of its work force in December and January next. Has the company made any approaches to the Commonwealth Government in recent months for assistance? When informing the Government of its intentions, did the company ask for any form of assistance? What action does the Government intend to take to assist the people of Queenstown in their present crisis? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with regret the decision of the Mount Lyell Railway and Mining Co. Ltd to reduce production of copper concentrate at its Queenstown mines, and to close down the 'Crown' mines, the 'Lower West' mine and the 'Royal Tharsis' mine, and to retrench in 3 stages during December- January next 400 of the total work force of 1050 men and women. 
Accordingly, this House resolves that because the towns of Queenstown and Gormanston are totally dependent on Mount Lyell for employment and the town of Strahan is substantially so dependent, and because these towns being situated on the remote and rugged West Coast of Tasmania have no rural industry and no alternative industrial employment, a critical situation has arisen and it is imperative that urgent discussions be held involving the Commonwealth Government, the State Government and the company on the following matters: 
The immediate as well as long term future of Mount Lyell. 
The nature of Government aid, if any, sought by the company in recent months. 
Whether or not a copper bounty ensuring that the company receives a sufficient price for its copper concentrate to maintain a break-even position is feasible and appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Whether the State Government can immediately relieve the company of payment of payroll tax for a moratorium period of 12 months. 
Whether the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme can be extended to include copper concentrates shipped interstate in bulk by Mount Lyell. 
And therefore, whilst realising the critical problems facing the company and its employees are caused by a prolonged period of low world copper prices and rapid escalation in production costs and State charges in recent years, this House urges prompt and effective action to be taken forthwith to avoid the immense social and human suffering which will occur to the people of the West Coast of Tasmania as a result of the proposed retrenchments. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, relates to the problems of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd in Tasmania. The Prime Minister will appreciate that one of the causes of the retrenchments has been the rapid escalation in production costs and State charges, especially State payroll tax, in recent years. Can he suggest any means by which the company may be given some relief from these costs and charges? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the Sente Select Committee report on the Mount Lyell crisis which was handed down last Friday in the Senate? If so did he note the Committee finding that devaluation of itself should ensure the continuance of the mining operations at Mount Lyell without any retrenchments? Has the Prime Minister had any response yet to the call he made in the House last week for the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited to reconsider its previous decision to enforce massive retrenchments at Mount Lyell? 
-I am very pleased to have this chance to participate in what I believe is a most important debate. The two honourable members from the Opposition side who have spoken suggested that the answers are simple and that it is easy to overcome the unemployment crisis. But they would not accept any blame for the mistakes which their Government made between 1972 and the end of 1975. There was no admission of guilt of any kind. I suggest to the House that if we are considering a record unemployment figure we should consider the record number of people which the Australian Labor Party Government put out of work in its 3 years in office. Let us look at the figures. They indicate the sheer hypocrisy of the comments made by the 2 speakers on the other side. 
When Labor came to office in 1972 there were 136 769 people unemployed and when it left office at the end of 1975 there were 328 705 people registered as unemployed. That is a significant figure. Honourable members opposite should think about that figure and ask themselves whether they are proud of it. During Labor's reign 191 936 Australians were forced out of work. Opposition members pretend to be the saviours of the working people. They pretend to do everything for the working people. Look at what happened. In so many ways they did great harm to the lot of the working people of this country. The figure of 191 936 people put out of work in that period reminds us of that fact. 
Honourable members opposite ask what is happening now. Let us look at the situation. I think it is important to compare the figures. When we came to office in December 1975 there were 343 939 people registered as unemployed, thanks to the policies of the Labor Government. Now there are 354 989 people unemployed. That is the important figure. About 10 000 people have lost their jobs during this period, but when one takes into account - 
We are not proud of it. We appreciate the problems. There is nothing more tragic than people being out of work, and we are doing what we can. In the 3 years of Labor administration 191 000 people were forced out of work, and 10 000 in the last 12 months. I submit that the unemployment situation is not dissimilar to a slippery slide. I am surprised that there is no laughter. It is easy to go down the slippery slide but it is much harder to stay level. One thing that we have done since we came to power has been to stabilise the situation to a very large extent. We have stabilised the numbers of people becoming unemployed, and that is the important thing. It has not been easy to achieve. I appreciate that there are problems in looking at the situation in purely numerical terms when we are dealing with human beings, but taking into account that the Regional Employment Development scheme was being run down when we came to office, very few people have become unemployed during the period of the present Government's reign. I suggest that that is a significant achievement. 
The causes of unemployment are many. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has spoken about some of them and I do not intend to canvass them in the time available to me. There is no doubt, as the community realises, that the wage spiral encouraged by the Labor Government has been the primary cause of inflation and the primary cause of unemployment. The tragedy is that employees have priced themselves out of jobs because of the wage spiral encouraged by the Labor Government. Young kids in Australia who have qualifications and who have work capacity can still find work. The unfortunate ones are the young people with lower qualifications and a lower work capacity. They are the ones about whom we must be concerned. The price of labour today is too high and employers are looking for value from their employees. I am not speaking on behalf of the Government when I confess that it will be very difficult indeed to get the unemployment figure down; but on any reasonable analysis of the figures one can see that there has been an improvement in the situation. I believe that there will continue to be an improvement as times goes on, and the people of Australia will recognise that improvement as it continues. 
We have heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  their ideas on how we can overcome our problems. Perhaps one is entitled to be cynical about their suggestions because of their failure and the failure of their Government to act between 1 972 and 1975. It seems to me from listening to their comments that what they are suggesting is that we must increase government expenditure. They say: 'Spend more and more of the taxpayers' money and you will solve all the problems'. It is the old solution. 
-That is what they are saying- ' Spend more and more of the taxpayers' money'- but they are ignoring all the best advice that is available at the present time. Labor's solutions just will not work, as the RED scheme did not work. I think that Labor wants to reintroduce the RED scheme. Digging holes and filling them up again was all that was achieved by that scheme, and then the previous Government wiped it. I am pleased that an inquiry is being conducted at the moment by  Mr Norgard  into the CES and related matters. I believe that the community wants to look very closely at the CES and its operation. Moreover the community is concerned about the unemployment figure and wants it analysed properly. The Minister has mentioned a number of anomalies that occur when employers who appear to be genuine people are saying that there is no unemployment crisis and they cannot get people to fill jobs. This is happening all over the country. Mind you, many decent Labor supporters admit that this is being said all over the country. In fact, some of them are saying it themselves. So this inquiry might uncover some of the problems. 
One example which comes to mind is the situation in Queenstown in my electorate. Honourable members on both sides of the House will remember the problems of the Mount Lyell Railway and Mining Co. at Queenstown. Some 300 people were retrenched from that company. I am told by officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service that in Queenstown now only 1 1 people are registered for employment- 1 1 people out of some 300 people who were retrenched. We see how high the bald unemployment figures are, yet people who are really keen to get work and have a good work record are able to get jobs, even in a State like Tasmania where there is a high unemployment figure. I am not saying there are not genuine people. There are many genuine people around who are out of work and who want jobs, there is no doubt about that. But honourable members opposite do not understand the unemployment figures. With respect, I do not think the Government fully understands the unemployment figures. I think the figures have to be analysed. I hope that  Mr Norgard  will investigate these figures and perhaps come up with some answers and explain some of the anomalies. 
This Government is doing a good deal to alleviate the unemployment situation in this country. The most significant action it has taken has been to try to achieve recovery in the economy, and I believe that recovery is under way. It is very gradual indeed, but it is under way. If honourable members look at the situation objectively they must agree with that statement. Only by achieving a recovery in the economy will we get these young unemployed people into the work force. As I have said, I believe this recovery is under way. We are on the road back. It will not be easy. Honourable members opposite laugh at the figures I have quoted, but if they look at them objectively they will see that there are signs of a significant improvement, and I think the public is recognising that this improvement is occurring. 
-I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question concerning problems confronting King Island dairy farmers following the appointment of a receiver-manager at the local dairy co-operative. Can the Minister inform the House of the progress of any investigations undertaken by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or other departmental officers into the economics of the King Island dairy industry? Further, can he indicate at this stage whether the Commonwealth will be making further advances to the King Island Dairy Products Co-operative for completion of the works program at its factory? Will the Bureau's report be published and, if so, when? 
-I move: 
That the Address be agreed to. 
At the outset I sincerely thank honourable members for according me the honour of presenting the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen in opening the second session of the Thirtieth Parliament of the Commonwealth. I feel it is an honour which is shared by my constituents- I stand here representing them- and I believe by the Tasmanian people. It is indeed wonderful that the Queen should see fit to find time to visit Australia in this the Silver Jubilee of her accession to the Throne. I feel that as the Queen travels around the country she will soon realise that the vast majority of Australians hold an abundance of affection for her and what she stands for. I know that she will get a sincere welcome wherever she goes in Australia. Last night at the official reception  Her  Majesty mentioned that she would be visiting every State in the Commonwealth as well as the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. As I have said, I am sure she will receive a very sincere and warm welcome when she visits other parts of Australia. 
Despite what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said earlier I would like to congratulate the Government for the very appropriate reception given to  Her  Majesty in the form of the parade yesterday and the official reception last night and also for giving the people of Canberra the opportunity to see  Her  Majesty and  His  Royal Highness. I think the functions were most appropriate and for me- I take it honourable members on both sides of the House would agree with this- it was a unique experience to be present at them. I think that goodwill was shown by honourable members from both sides of this House and by honourable senators from both sides of the other chamber. 
Her Majesty's Speech was short and my speech will also be short. The Speech outlined in brief form the Government's legislative intentions for the remainder of the current Parliament. It confirmed the Government's firm commitment to restore economic prosperity to this country and to give social justice to all our people. In particular Her Majesty mentioned- I feel I should also mention it- the Government's concern for the Aboriginal people, the original people of Australia. There was emphasis in the Speech on the economy and that would not surprise any of us because we in this place and those who are involved outside in the decision making process seem to spend most of our time dealing with economic matters. In the Speech Her Majesty said: 
Australia has experienced economic difficulties in recent years; my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
The Government of course must seek economic justice for all Australians, and this is our essential aim at this time. But when one goes around the electorate, around the traps as we call it, and speaks to the ordinary people in the street one finds so many people wondering whether this concern with the economy might be misplaced. There are people saying that they have never had it so good. When they say 'they' they are usually referring to someone else, not to themselves. When one looks for visible signs of a recession in the economy they are not easy to find. That is the way I see it anyway, and others might agree with me. If one looks at the evidence on paper produced by all the outstanding economists that we have around the place and all the economic indicators, the indices of one kind or another, one certainly would be satisfied that we are in a bad way economically and that we are suffering from an economic recession, but it is difficult to find the tangible evidence, the real evidence of this recession. This is a serious point I am making. 
One must acknowledge that many people in the community have suffered very dramatically indeed in recent times, especially- I hope that this does not sound political- between 1972 and 1975 when inflation was so rife and when prices got out of control. During that period the poor in the community who are not able to protect themselves against inflation, particularly the elderly people on fixed incomes, suffered so dramatically and the farmers of Australia suffered their worst plight for many, many years. As well as the problem of rising prices the farmers had the problem of falling incomes and the two together made things extremely harsh and difficult for them. If one goes around the pubs, into the bars, there seem to be just as many people there. One sees the number of people at the racetracks. The TAB turnover is as high as it has ever been. Records seem to be set year after year in every State. It is the same with the soccer pools, Tattslotto and all these other things on which we spend our money. Attendances at sporting functions and fixtures are also high. There are some exceptions, but this is generally true. 
There is evidence in the form of economicindicators to suggest that the recession is not perhaps as bad as many would make out. For example, in 1 97 1 an average family comprising a man, his wife and 2 children received a real income of $68.30 a week. Based on the same dollar, that is the 1966-67 dollar, average weekly earnings for that family in 1976 were $78.20. I am talking about real terms; real money. There was this increase. If one looks at the  ANZ Quarterly Survey  put out in January 1 977 by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd one sees further evidence of the increase in real earnings in recent times. The document on page 5, under the heading 'Business Indicators', reads: 
In August, - 
That is, August 1976-  adult male minimum weekly rates payable for a full week's work (excluding overtime) were 16.4 per cent higher than a year earlier. 
Concurrently the consumer price index increased by 13.9 per cent, indicating that 'real' wage levels were maintained to employees on minimum weekly rates . . . 
Those sorts of figures have to be interpreted in context and properly analysed. I think that they are significant. Those figures which indicate a gradual increase in real earnings, are supported by evidence of purchases and consumption by the people of Australia. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a number of tables which indicate a gradual incline, not decline, in consumption in many key areas including beer, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, gambling taxes- which are open to some doubt because of the rates of taxpurchases of television sets, both blackandwhite and colour, electric stoves and motor vehicles. When we are talking about durable items such as motor vehicles and television sets we have to realise that the  per capita  increase is quite remarkable because these are purchases of new television sets and new motor cars. There is normally something that is being replaced and that item, whether it be a television set or a motor car, remains in the community. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Transport, refers to the Joy report on the Tasmanian railway system which was handed down late last year. Would the Minister agree that if this report is fully implemented the Tasmanian Railways, which employs some 2 per cent of the total Tasmanian workforce, will have its number of employees reduced significantly? Has the Government considered this report? Will it be acting on the report and, if the Government is to act on the report, can the Minister assure the House that due consideration will be given to the employment situation in Tasmania? 
-The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned that the game is up. I suggest to him that the game is up because we have discovered the fraud in the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. That is why the honourable member spent so much time criticising honourable members from Tasmania. He has done us great justice in his criticism, but he is concerned because we have discovered the fraud of the amendment. Despite the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation that the level of support for apples should be at the rate of $1 per box, the Government has quite rightly decided that the level should be $2 per box for a maximum quantity of 2 million boxes. At the present time the Government is considering also a number of additional support measures and is involved in consultation with the governments of those States which are interested in the matter. The total amount of the additional support will be something in the order of $ 1 m. The Industries Assistance Commission report was a disappointment to many of the apple and pear producers in Australia. I refer briefly to a submission from the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association in which it made certain comments upon the IAC report. It said: 
The report reflects a complete absence of any optimism. It proceeds from an assumption that the industry is terminally ill and should be assisted to an early death. It rejects or ignores confirmed market potential and is equally cavalier in its view of the industry's skills and expertise. It proposes a costly, complex, cumbersome and ill-considered new bureaucratic welfare system for individuals in the industry, rather than providing assistance for real stabilisation of the industry itself. It represents in many instances a fundamental and disturbing misunderstanding of the facts and it gives inadequate emphasis to several highly important factors influencing the industry. It takes no account of special circumstances prevailing. 
As I said, the report was a great disappointment to those involved in the industry. The Government, quite rightly, has rejected the recommendations of the IAC. I am surprised, as people in the industry were, that the IAC believes that the industry does not have a good, sound future. The report was unduly pessimistic. I believe it ignored the real market potential the industry has if it can devise means of effective promotion, especially in the South East Asian region. Those honourable members from fruit growing areas like Tasmania are sensitive to the economic plight of our fruit growers. Naturally we should like to see higher levels of support. That is obvious. We would all like to see higher levels of support. But in any area of Government expenditure we must consider total community interest. We must be concerned about the interest of the total community, and I include in the total community people in other rural industries who are in such a difficult position at the moment, in the main due to policies of the previous Labor Administration. I mention, for example, the dairy farmers who are still struggling along on ridiculously low incomes. 
The main point I want to make is that the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is as uncertain as his and his Party's commitment to fruit growers and other primary producers in Australia. It has been proposed merely as a political gimmick. There is no doubt about that. We all realise that. The honourable member for Blaxland and his colleagues are more concerned about scoring political points than genuinely assisting the fruit growers in their current plight. The honourable member for Blaxland showed his real colours when he spoke on the Apple and Pear Amendment Bill on 4 May 1976. It is unfortunate that he did not read the speech he made on that occasion before he prepared the proposed amendment. On that occasion he made what can only be considered to be a most apologetic speech on the apple and pear legislation. I suggest that although he indicated half-heartedly that he supported the legislation he made it clear that he did not like this type of support. The same point was made by my colleague from Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The honourable member for Blaxland showed that he did not like this sort of support. On page 1863 of  Hansard  of 4 May 1976 he is reported as saying, when speaking about stabilisation support that it:  . . . just becomes a form of welfare assistance. 
It is only a substitute for social welfare benefits. This is what he said about the same sort of proposal he is now putting before the Parliament. He said that the sort of assistance we are concerned with will help only the large producers and not the small ones. How hypocritical is the honourable member for Blaxland when he now proposes an amendment calling for larger payments, quite contrary to the views he expressed less than 12 months ago. We on this side of the chamber cannot be party to that sort of dishonesty and deceit. 
It is fraud, as my colleague said. It is blatant fraud. In any event, the amendment proposed is too uncertain and vague. It does not even say what assistance should be provided. I suggest that it was drafted in a hurry. As I understand it, the decision to propose it was made only yesterday. The speed with which the amendment was drafted is obvious when one reads it. I shall not read the whole amendment but the important words are 'and /or'. It is drafted in the alternative. What is really being suggested? What is the proposed level of support which would result if the amendment were accepted? The answer is that we do not really know. The amendment proposed states that we would give the growers $3 a box for apples, $1.20 for pears or some other unidentified or uncertain assistance. There is no guarantee. 
It is a con trick, as my colleague says. There is no guarantee that the growers will get $3 a box for apples and $1.20 a box for pears. That is the only way in which we can interpret the amendment proposed. It just does not make any sense. It will not help the fruit growers about whom we are so concerned. I suggest that this proposed amendment is totally phoney and, therefore, I oppose it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Keating's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of suggestions made in Hobart yesterday that as from Monday next meals will no longer be served on the Tasman Limited, the train which carries passengers between Hobart and north-west coast centres of Tasmania, and that certain parcels offices will close on 1 May? Is there any substance to these suggestions? 
I suggest that the real master of double standards is the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith 
Johnson). On the one hand he is saying that this piece of legislation is completely worthless and on the other hand he wants to strengthen the legislation by supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I commend the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  and the Government for again showing great initiative and wisdom in bringing down this important piece of legislation. In essence the Bill is directed towards 2 particular problems of urgent national and international concern to us in Australia, namely, the prevention of foreign incursions by persons from Australia and the recruiting in Australia of people to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. Both these areas are currently of concern here because in recent times there has been clear evidence of military-type incursions into foreign territory by people who have been residing for various lengths of time in Australia, and as well of efforts in various parts of Australia to recruit persons to participate in armed conflict in some other parts of the world. There is no doubt that the training in Australia of people to engage in foreign incursions has threatened our international relations and it is therefore essential in order to preserve those relations that we deal specifically with the problem in the form of this penal statute. 
There are existing laws which provide limited opportunity to restrict foreign incursions, but that legislation lacks teeth and is not really effective. Under the legislation before the House the authorities will be in a much better position to terminate quickly and effectively preparations for such foreign incursions. Clause 6 of the Bill prevents incursions into foreign countries for the purpose of engaging in hostile activities against the government of that country. It applies not only to Australian citizens but also to people who are ordinarily resident in Australia and persons who were present in Australia within a year immediately before the offence was committed. There are, of course, limits to the powers that the Parliament, or indeed any parliament, has to legislate to control the activities of citizens of other countries, so there must be some reasonable connecting link to warrant the application of Australian law. It was found necessary to include in the categories of persons to whom the legislation applies people who have been present in Australia for only a short period. It is felt- and I would agree with this-that the 12-month limit is appropriate. In previous incursions emanating from Australia the people involved included some who had been here for only a very short period of time. In some cases it would seem that they actually came to Australia with the express intention of training others here in Australia to participate in their activities overseas and them leaving to go overseas on their escapade. Any responsible government with concern for international peace and order cannot allow that kind of person to engage in those activities without sanctions that can be imposed within Australia 
I am pleased to see that under clause 7 the preparation for incursions will also be prohibited. Again I compliment the Attorney and the Government on the form of the legislation. It appears to cover all the various activities that a group might be involved in in preparing for a military type incursion including stockpiling and keeping of arms and explosives and other weapons, the training and drilling, and the meeting and assembling of people with intention to train or drill, and it applies even to owners and occupiers and other categories of people who might knowingly allow a meeting or assembling of people on their premises to promote the offence. So under this clause the legislation is very wide in its impact and should virtually prevent these sorts of activities from being carried out. 
In recent times there has been accumulated a good deal of evidence of some foreign countries and forces endeavouring to recruit young men in Australia to join their armed forces and to engage in active combat overseas. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  did cover this very well in his speech. He mentioned a couple of examples and I will not go over them again. Advertisements have been placed in newspapers asking people to apply for 'interesting work abroad'. One such advertisement gamed widespread publicity in Hobart some months ago and caught the attention of my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  but when certain people sought out the individuals responsible it was not easy to find them or the organisers of the recruiting campaign. 
They were phantoms. The Committee of Privy Councillors appointed by the British Government to inquire into the recruitment of mercenaries spent some time considering these types of advertisements. In its report the Committee was particularly concerned about the recruitment of British subjects in the armed forces of the National Federation for the Liberation of Angola. It was found that the recruits answered advertisements like the one that I have mentioned has been used in 
Australia, and as a result of the advertisement some 160 British citizens served in the armed forces of the FNLA. The first batch of recruits was aware that they were being engaged in a combatant role but the Committee found that among those recruited in Britain at a later stage some thought their duties in Angola would be limited to training African troops and that they would not be required to serve actively unless they actually volunteered to do so. In that case the recruits were flown from London to Brussels and then to Zaire in Africa. The rate of pay offered was Stg 1 50 a week and they were paid 300 in advance before departure. In most cases that money was paid to relatives. Active recruitment in Britain came to an end when it became known that a number of the British mercenaries had been massacred by their own side in the African conflict. 
I am opposed to the Opposition's amendment for a number of reasons. The honourable member for Burke and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  are simply saying that they oppose all forms of mercenary activity and are against all mercenaries. There is of course a problem in defining what a mercenary is, but if the suggested amendment were acceptable it would prevent mercenaries from engaging in activities which perhaps might be acceptable in some cases to the people of Australia, for example, the International Brigade in the Spanish civil war. The United States citizens who joined up in the British Air Force before their own country entered World War II could be said to be mercenaries. The British Jews who fought in the Israeli Army against the Arabs also could be said to be mercenaries. There is a problem in defining just what is a mercenary. 
The Committee of Privy Councillors was tempted to seek a definition of mercenaries which would differentiate between the professional free-lance soldier and the soldier of conscience. However, it was not found practicable to distinguish between the two. I would like to quote briefly from the findings of that Committeethe Diplock Committee- as follows: 
The motives which influence a man to enlist in an armed force which is not that of his own country may run through the whole gamut from sheer desire to private gain accompanied by indifference as to the cause which that force is supporting to a conscientious conviction that the merits of that cause are so great as to justify his sacrificing his own life if need be in order to ensure that it will trill mph . . . 
The Committee also said: 
A spirit of adventure, an ex-soldier's difficulty in adjusting to civilian life, unemployment, domestic troubles, ideals, fanaticism, greed, all may play some part in the same individual's motivation. No single one of them may be identifiable to the standard of proof called for in a court of law as the effective cause of his becoming a mercenary. 
So one can appreciate the problems in attempting to distinguish the various types of mercenary and in this legislation that particular expression has been avoided completely. It is important to note that the legislation does not prevent a person from serving as a mercenary in an overseas government force but it prohibits in certain circumstances the recruitment here in Australia of persons to serve as mercenaries. I repeat: It prevents the recruitment of those persons to serve as mercenaries. This was completely in accord with the conclusion reached by the Diplock Committee to which I have made reference. Accordingly, the Bill does not make it unlawful for an Austraiian to fly to a foreign country because of some deep concern or belief and to enlist for military service with that country, although it would make it unlawful for a person in Australia to recruit another person for that service. To serve as a mercenary is not an offence under international law and a mercenary under the Geneva conventions, to which Australia is a signatory, is entitled as a prisoner to the same treatment as is any other member of a military force. That is important to note. So there is some international recognition of the role of mercenaries. 
I think the legislation in its present form protects those important rights of the individual to serve in a cause in which he believes but at the same time protects the public interest and as far as possible ensures the maintenance of good international relations between Australia and other countries. I commend the Government for the foresight it has shown in so promptly bringing down this piece of legislation. 
It is pleasing to hear the Opposition's spokesman speaking on a transport issue. In recent times he has been particularly quiet and I would suggest he has not spoken as regularly or with the wisdom - 
I rise to speak very briefly on this motion to congratulate the Government, the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  and particularly my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  for his tireless and dedicated efforts, on behalf of his electors, to ensure that this important base is established in Tasmania. 1 speak sincerely because the honourable member has worked very hard. He has worn a track to the offices of both the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This base will benefit not only the people of southern Tasmania, not only the people of Hobart, but also the people of other parts of Tasmania, in fact the whole of Tasmania. It is a matter of some regret that the previous member for Denison was not able to convince his master, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the previous Labor Government, to get on with the job of building this important base. I am delighted that there is now a firm commitment to build the base, involving expenditure of over $7m. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with your permission I will deviate slightly from the subject in view of the fact that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  mentioned the air traffic controllers' strike. I would like to make a point concerning that matter. The honourable member suggested that the Government should approach this type of strike in a conciliatory manner. I suggest to him that the Government must not only be seen to govern but also it must actually govern the country in the interests of the nation. When a handful of individuals - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with all respect, I suggest that the honourable member did mention the dispute and the involvement of the Minister  (Mr Nixon)  in that dispute. I simply make the point that the Government must be seen to govern and must govern in the interests of the nation. If a handful of people attempt to bring the nation to its knees through this sort of action, then, unfortunately, drastic action might be necessary. 
I turn to the subject at hand. The legislation finalises, as far as legislation is concerned, the transfer of the railway system of South Australia, that is, the country section of that railway system, and the railway system of Tasmania from the State governments to the Commonwealth Government. I think it is worthwhile to look briefly at the history of the transfer. The previous Labor Government, in its wisdom, wanted all power to be transferred to Canberra so it decided to endeavour to take control of the State railways systems. It approached the various State governments and only 2 governments, the Labor governments of South Australia and Tasmania, were prepared to co-operate and to transfer, in the case of South Australia, a section of the railway system and, in the case of Tasmania, the whole railway system to the Federal Government. Following the policy decision the then Government arranged for officers of the Australian National Railways and the various State personnel to examine the proposal in some depth. Working committees were then established to consider the many complex facets of the transfer. They had to consider in detail the financial arrangements which certainly were and still are complex; the redemption of accumulated loans; the staff conditions which have caused particular problems; the conditions of employment of those previously employed by the State railway systems; leave and superannuation entitlements; workers compensation and so on. 
The agreements were signed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Premier of South Australia on 2 1 May 1 975 and by the then Prime Minister and the Premier of Tasmania on 23 May 1975. Complementary State and Federal legislation was then enacted to validate the respective agreements. Legislation was enacted in the South Australian Parliament on 2 1 August 1975 and in the Tasmanian Parliament on 18 June 1975. Legislation was passed in this Parliament on 7 October 1975. As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has said, the transfer arrangements have indeed been complex. I think it would be only fair to congratulate all parties concerned for the effort and work they have put into reaching harmonious arrangements in concluding the transfers. I think it is fair to say that generally there is harmony within all the ranks concerned, including the representatives of the employees of the State railway systems. 
As I have said, there were particular problems in South Australia because of the fact that only part of the railway system in that State was being transferred to the Commonwealth Government. There were problems in denning which of the rolling stock were part of the country railway system and which were part of the metropolitan railway system; which locomotives were part of the respective systems; which real estate was to be transferred, and the assets generally to be transferred to the Commonwealth. There were some very real problems in South Australia. Generally, both in South Australia and in Tasmania, there have been tremendous and complex problems concerning the conditions of employment. As the honourable member for Shortland has said, 24 different unions were involved in the negotiations. Twenty-six different awards applied to those employed by the then State railway systems. Many of the provisions of the legislation now before the House result from negotiations with staff and employees of the State railway systems and from agreements which have been reached with all the unions concerned in the arrangements. 
In making some general remarks about the transfers I think it should be said that the Commonwealth clearly paid an exorbitant figure for the railways systems, especially the South Australian system. I should like to quote briefly from the second reading speech by the Minister for Transport. He said: 
But that does not mean we were happy with arrangements made. In fact I have made it very clear that in my opinion the Whitlam Government was taken to the cleaners, whilst the two State Premiers laughed all the way to the bank! 
I think that is an appropriate statement. The then Federal Government clearly was taken to the cleaners on that occasion. In the case of South Australia the amount paid exceeded the true value, on my advice, of the total South Australian railway system. So the then Federal Government paid for the total system and all it received, and all we have now received, is only the country system, only part of the total railway system. That is something that could be criticised and something about which this Government no doubt must be concerned. There was a wastage of taxpayers' money and a lack of concern at the way in which it was spent on this occasion. But the 2 State Premiers concerned certainly showed some cunning and guile in being prepared to go on with this deal. Their States have gained some advantages from the transfers. 
The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the report into the Tasmanian railway system by  Dr Joy  and his committee. I should like to make one or two comments about that report. I trust that the Minister will take note of them. There is a fair amount of criticism around Tasmania about the report and a good deal of concern in many quarters at some of the recommendations flowing from the report. I do not believe there was sufficient public involvement in compiling the report. Those inquiring into the problems tended to look towards the people involved directly in the railway systems for advice and comment. I think the report was too narrow in its scope. It would have been far better if there had been a greater opportunity for the public generally to express some viewpoint about the many problems which obviously exist, and continue to exist, in the Tasmanian railway system. The report fails to take into account many of the human and social factors which I think in due course will prevent the full implementation of a number of recommendations in the report. It fails to display any real optimism for industrial growth in Tasmania. I think it appears to have placed generally too much emphasis on cost cutting and could have been much more realistic in that respect. 
I believe that the Tasmanian railways must be totally rehabilitated. I suspect if that is to be achieved the outlay on the part of the Federal Government will exceed by a large amount the $23m which was recommended to be spent by the Joy report. Workers involved in the Tasmanian railway system in recent times have certainly felt threatened, firstly by the transfer itself and all the connotations and uncertainties involved and, secondly, by the recommendations and the contents of the Joy report. I am concerned about the suggestion in that report that the Tasmanian railway system is grossly overmanned. I suggest that possibly every railway system in Australia- perhaps in the world- is largely over-manned. On page 13 1 the Joy report states: 
The major benefit which Tasmanian Railways bestows on Tasmania at the moment is that by employing about 800 more people than can be justified on social benefit gounds, and 1 500 more people than could be justified on crude financial grounds, it brings in between $8m and SI 5m more each year in payrolls than otherwise would be the case. This is financed by the Federal Government but then so too would be unemployment benefit which would need to be paid to that number of people. 
I do not feel that that is a terribly accurate statement, with all due respect to those who inquired into the problems. I do not think it does justice to the Tasmanian railway system, which I think provides much greater benefits than merely employing a surplus of individuals, as is suggested in the report. In considering reducing staff numbers in the railways, if that is the intention of the Government, I should like to have an assurance that there would be a similar percentage reduction of Commonwealth jobs in other parts of Australia- for example in Gippsland and other country areas in Victoria, and indeed here in Canberra. I suggest that if there is a surplus of 1500 employees on the Tasmanian railways there would be a surplus of 50 000 people on the public payroll here in Canberra. Perhaps that is something that  Dr Joy  and his committee could well examine. 
Generally I support this legislation. There have been problems associated with the transfer -obviously there have been very complicated problems- but this Government sees that there is a definite commitment entered into originally by the previous Federal Government and of course that commitment must now be honoured. I therefore support the legislation and trust that the transfer continues smoothly. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that as from Tuesday of next week King Island will be without a regular air freight service because Brain and Brown Air Freight Pty Ltd, the main operator to the island, is unable to purchase replacement aircraft? Can the Minister assure the thousands of people on King Island, including hundreds of primary producers, who are absolutely dependent upon air freight services, that the Government will make sure that King Island has an air freight service by permitting Brain and Brown to purchase two DC4s from Qantas Airways? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister indicate whether any progress has been made to ensure the maintenance of King Island air freight services? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to permit the raising of loan moneys amounting to $3m for war service land settlement in the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. It has been the Government's custom to introduce a fresh Bill each year to seek parliamentary approval of these funds. It is anticipated that the borrowing authority provided by the existing loan, under the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Act will be exhausted by the conclusion of this financial year and accordingly it is necessary to allocate a further $3m. As honourable members are aware, the Commonwealth is responsible for the provision of the whole of the capital moneys required by this scheme in the 3 States I have mentioned. The money will be appropriated in the annual Budget in the ordinary way and the year's appropriation will represent the sum of the requirements of the 3 States concerned for these purposes. 
At present South Australia requires about half of the year's appropriation, Western Australia about one third and Tasmania the balance. Most of the money is needed to make advances to settlers to provide adequate working capital to cover the current working expenses of their properties, the purchase of stock and capital funds for replacement of plant. A very small sum estimated to be perhaps $10,000 may be required to meet costs, classified broadly as development, relating to fees expected to be incurred in finalising some surveys and, as far as South Australia is concerned, some funds for a drainage study at Loxton in South Australia. 
I want to raise briefly in this debate one specific aspect of war service land, but before doing so I should like to make one general comment. Any reasonable person would have to say that this present Government and its predecessors have made generous amounts available to give ex-servicemen every reasonable opportunity to settle on land. I should like to quote briefly on that aspect from a speech made by  Senator Wriedt  in the other place in June 1975 when he was speaking on similar legislation passed during that year.  Senator Wriedt  was then the Minister for Agriculture in the previous Government. He stated: 
As I have said in the past, when I was appointed to this portfolio  2 1/2  years ago and was required to acquaint myself with the background to this scheme, I could come to only one conclusion. It was that our predecessors, the liberal-Country Party Government, over the years had been generous to war service land settlers. 
This was an appropriate comment. This Governmentand, to give it its credit the previous Labor Government- was generous to ex-servicemen who were settled under this scheme: 
The great majority of war service land settlers have been successful. Many have been highly successful in carrying out their endeavours under this scheme in settling on properties. But it is also true that some have had a great struggle indeed to make a go of it. Some in this group have failed because of lack of expertise, knowledge of farming techniques and business acumen. Of course as with every group in commercial life a small number of these people have failed because of the lack of effort and a lack of application on their part. I do not wish to be unfair to these people. I stress that a small group of people is involved but there are some who have failed because of lack of effort. It has been their own fault. Some, again it is a small group of people, have genuine grievances and they can be said to have failed financially under the scheme as a result of those genuine, real grievances that they have. 
I want to speak briefly today on one of those grievances which has been aired before. There have been many debates on this subject in years gone by but I feel this aspect should be reiterated and should not be forgotten; that is, the matter of valuations- rental valuations and the valuation of the option to purchase price on these properties. Some of the war service properties have been, and remain, for the settlers concerned a financial liability because of the unorthodox way in which the rents and capital values of properties were originally assessed. I think some fair criticism could be directed to those officers who originally assessed the valuations many years ago: They firstly determined what they considered to be the 'profit' a farm was capable of making. I emphasise the word 'capable'- it was not necessarily the profit it was actually making. After deducting a so-called 'living allowance' for the farmer concerned and for his family and deducting something for regular commitments on advances which he had received the officers then took the balance and called this the rent. This rental figure was then capitalised at 2V4 per cent. That means that the rental figure was multiplied by 40. To take an example, if the rent was assessed on the basis I have mentioned at a figure of $500 that figure was multiplied by 40. For the purposes of the scheme the capital figure arrived at was $20,000. 
To give credit, some changes were made following the handing down of the so called Payne report. As well as that, not so long ago a right of appeal was introduced on option prices following the Fenton report. That was an excellent report prepared under the able guidance of  Mr Charles  Fenton, MLC, in Tasmania. But despite these changes unfortunately a close relationship has remained between the option to purchase price and the rental based capital value. Any reasonable, responsible valuer with any knowledge of valuation would see the dangers in this artificial and unorthodox method of establishing these values. I ask: Why could not ordinary, recognised valuation principles have been applied in those days? For example, why could not normal government valuation be accepted, which of course has to be taken from time to time for rate and land tax purposes and other purposes? If one compares the State government valuation and the valuation under the scheme one sees that in many cases the valuation under the scheme far exceeds the State valuation. I know of examples- I shall not go into details now- of cases where the State valuations have been exceeded by $10,000, $12,000 and up to $15,000 by the value of the property under this scheme. This is not always the case but it is not uncommon for valuations to exceed the ordinary State valuation by that sort of amount. 
As a result of these excessive valuations some settlers unfortunately have little equity in their properties should they wish to sell them. Many are now reaching retirement age, in their late 50s and 60s. Many are keen to sell their properties if they can. But their hopes and aspirations have not been fulfilled because if they sell their properties now they would be left with very little capital indeed. I think in many ways that could be said to be unfair to those who have worked so hard, who have sweated and toiled on their properties expecting they would build up some sort of capital equity in time. Now they find that they have been living on a fairly miserable income over a long time and if they want to get off their properties they will have nothing left in their hands to maintain themselves and their families in their retirement. That is a matter on which the Minister concerned must keep an eye. It still concerns many people, some of them in my electorate in the Togari area of Tasmania and also some on King Island. There are still some war service settlers remaining on King Island. Of course that Island has its special problems at the moment which I mentioned in the House earlier today. 
I think there is another point which also should be considered at this stage. I think it would be a wise move by the Government to consider whether it should wind up the total scheme. This could be done only by transferring the full legal title in fee simple to the settlers for a reasonable sum, giving credit for the very hard work and the sweat and toil, as I have said, that they have put into these properties for such a long time. If that were done I think the community as a whole would benefit. There would be economic advantages, a saving in administrative costs for the Government and, as well, I think the settlers would benefit if they were able to get full title to their properties at a fair price. It would have to be a fair and reasonable price. This sort of change could not take place unless the interests of the settlers were taken care of. Of course the costs of administering this sort of scheme are high, especially when we have split responsibility, a dual responsibility involving both the State governments and the Federal Government. This adds to the costs. It is a burden on the taxpayers and it is ultimately a burden also on the settlers. I think these potential changes should be looked at. There is a lot to be said for them. In general, I support this measure. It indicates the real concern shown by this Government for ex-servicemen. 
I want to use this occasion to raise a matter which is causing me and, I know, a number of my colleagues on this side of the House a great deal of concern at the present time, that is, the very narrow way in which the investment allowance provisions are being interpreted by the Taxation Office and the Department of the Treasury. I refer in particular to those provisions that apply to so-called onetonne commercial vehicles. I believe that many people in the community, particularly small businessmen, have been misled by a good deal of publicity about the investment allowance. They have suffered a very genuine injustice. It is not often that members of Parliament receive complaints which have real merit. I believe this complaint has merit. 
People generally were told that they would be entitled to the investment allowance if they purchased a commercial vehicle with a load capacity of one tonne or more or a vehicle that could carry 9 passengers. So many people went to reputable dealers and purchased vehicles which were held out to be of a capacity of one tonne or more. Claims that the vehicles were of this weight were supported by advertising in newspapers, by pamphlets, booklets and so on. There were told that the vehicles had a capacity of one tonne. 
Now they find when they lodge their income tax returns that they do not qualify for the investment allowance. This matter is causing hardship to many small businessmen. The main reason for their claims being refused is the very narrow and I believe artificial interpretation being applied by the Commissioner of Taxation. He is saying that in fact passengers who are carried in the vehicle are not part of the load; that the petrol and tools carried by the vehicle are not part of the load; and the tray itself on the back of the vehicle is not part of the load. I believe that this test is too restrictive. It means that many vehicles which are known publicly and generally to be one tonne vehicles do not come within that classification. 
Yes, like the Holden. There are a number of examples. I shall not give them now. The point I make is that people have been mislead. Genuine bona fide people have been misled, I believe with all due respect, by publicity that has been put out by the Government as well as by the narrow interpretation applied by the Commissioner of Taxation. I hope that the Treasurer will do something to correct the situation. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for National Resources, concerns the most welcome announcement recently of the Government's offer to assist the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd and the people of the important mining centre of Queenstown in Tasmania by providing funds on a dollar for dollar basis, jointly with the State Government, to cover the company's cash shortfall position pending an Industries Assistance Commission report on the copper industry. Is the Minister able to indicate to the House at this stage whether the offer has been accepted by the company? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and relates to the very serious demarcation dispute between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation over the right to moor vessels in the port of Burnie and some other Tasmanian ports. Is the Minister aware of the chaos being caused by this dispute and that many key industries in the north could be forced to close any day with mass standdowns of employees? Does he know that  Mr Thornton,  the managing director of Australian Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd which employs over 3,000 people in its paper, particle board and timber mills, warned yesterday that his company would soon be forced to close its entire operations in northern Tasmania? Can the Minister tell the House what action he will be taking to end this damaging dispute which is nothing more than a senseless argument between senior officials of the two unions? 
I take this opportunity to make some comments on the current Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the copper industry in Australia which incorporates an inquiry into the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd in Queenstown, Tasmania. As members would know, during recent months there has been a good deal of trenchant criticism of the Commission and its approach to the development of Australian industry. I want to make one or two general remarks before I get on to the question of Queenstown itself. In some quarters it has been suggested that the Commission is bent upon destroying business confidence, and in particular the manufacturing sector of Australian industry. I believe that if there is to be criticism it should be criticism of the Industries Assistance Commission Act rather than of the body which was created under that Act. No one, I believe, can seriously argue that the Commission has not endeavoured, to the best of its ability, faithfully to execute its responsibilities according to its charter. I believe it has acted totally in accordance with the Act as legislated and has tried to balance the economic and social objectives set out in section 23 in an economically consistent manner, if not necessarily a socially aware manner. In other words, I believe the Commission has performed its task faithfully as it interprets that task under the Act. 
My complaint would be that the Act has not placed sufficient constraints on or given a clear directive to the Commission to ensure that it has greater concern for individuals-whether those individuals are people, corporations or even individual industries, and whether those individuals are in the manufacturing sector, the mining sector or the rural sector. Therefore I would like to see less emphasis at this point of our economic history on the broad-based approach which was so clearly stated in the Commission's 1975-76 annual report. In that report the Commission endeavoured to explain its approach. The report states: 
Since industries in all sectors of the economy are ultimately competing for limited capital and labour resources, the provision of assistance to any individual industry or sector reduces the resources available for the development of other industries and sectors. The Commission's approach to industry assistance has the aim of improving the well-being of the community as a whole. 
Obviously there is a very broad-based approach by the Commission which has been evident in recent times. I think the Act, as it is at present, allows the Commission, unfortunately, to be economic puritans who place economic theories and projections into the future, which may be correct in the long term, before the immediate practical needs of individuals to be fed, clothed and housed and to have jobs now. I believe they are fairly important considerations. 
I believe the Mount Lyell inquiry provides the Commission with a unique opportunity to show it has an economic heart as well as an economic head. The House is aware of the current crisis at the Mount Lyell company. It has been raised in this place on a number of occasions. As the House would appreciate, it results from a world slump in copper prices. It is a terrible thing that this company will be forced to close unless government assistance is recommended by the Commission. Failure to provide assistance to the company will bring about very tragic results indeed. 
Queenstown is the main centre of population on the west coast of Tasmania and is the principal residential centre for the work force engaged in the operations of the Mount Lyell company. Its population of about 4,500 people is almost entirely dependent upon this company and its operations. The township of Gormanston, which is quite close to Queenstown- about live miles away- and has a population of 500 people, and also the township of Strahan on Macquarie Harbour on the west coast are very heavily dependent indeed upon Mount Lyell. The end of the Mount Lyell company will mean that these towns will be mere shadows of their present selves. 
Most of the people in these towns, in particular in Queenstown, own their own homes. They have capital invested, which is most unusual for a mining centre. In this respect Queenstown is unique. Without this mine the whole area will become a quiet and gradual drain on government funds in social security payments and other forms of assistance in years to come. If we can see out the present slump in world copper prices, which the experts suggest will continue for perhaps 12 months or two years, these areas will have a future. There are still large quantities of proven copper ore in the ground at Queenstown. 
It is essential for the Commission in its inquiry and the presentation of its report to consider these fundamental human factors and not only to look at and consider pure economic theory. I hope that the Industries Assistance Commission in its wisdom will view Queenstown and Mount Lyell as an exceptional case and will give proper recognition to the need to protect for a reasonable period- perhaps a year, two years or three years- the very hard working mining community of Queenstown. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that scientists and technical officers from the Minister's Department and the Department of Science have been conducting experiments and taking air samples in many parts of Australia to determine the most suitable site for a base line monitoring station? Do those experiments suggest that Cape Grim in north-western Tasmania is the ideal location for such a station? If so, when will a permanent base line station be established at Cape Grim? Also, what is the estimated cost of the station and the associated facilities? 
-The honourable .member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has again made what must be said to be a sincere speech, but I think it is evident from what he said today that he, like so many of his colleagues, really lacks a deep and real understanding of the problems facing our primary producers in Australia today. In the time available to me I want to make a few general comments which I think are of some importance, particularly at this time. From moving around my electorate in the north-west of Tasmania and King Island, and from speaking with farmers on their properties and at the sale yards, I have found that most farmers realise that their only hope of getting true economic justice at this dme is to give continuing support to the present Government. 
My farming friends have made it clear to me that they dread the remote possibility of the Australian Labor Party at some future dme regaining government in this country, especially with the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  at the helm. They have not forgotten those despicable remarks he made about farmers in years gone by. At one stage he said that farmers had never had it so good. They have not forgotten his irresponsible remark that most farmers are pagans. They realise that a leopard does not change his spots and they know that the Leader of the Opposition despises farmers and people living in country areas. He continues to have a deep antipathy towards them. Only recently I noted in an article where he referred to farmers, amongst other people, as being no more than dole bludgers. How many more times will he insult our farmers? These are remarks which the farmers feel deeply, and they have not forgotten them. They do not forget the many despicable actions of the Labor Government which, considered together, did so much harm and injury to most of our rural industries and to the livelihood of the people living in the country areas of Australia. 
I want to mention some of those decisions of the previous Government which the farmers have not forgotten. The Labor Government presided over the most destructive increase in inflation in this country's history, causing an escalation in total farm costs of $ 1,400m over the three years from 1973. Farm income has in fact increased by $400m, but because of the Whitlam-induced inflation primary producers are today more than $ 1,000m, or $100 a week each, worse off than they were in 1973-74. The Labor Government abolished the superphosphate fertiliser bounty payable to primary producers. It abolished the fuel equalisation scheme which helped people in the remote areas of Australia. Labor imposed an export meat inspection charge which cost producers an estimated $25m a year 
The Labor Government added millions of dollars a year to farmers' tax payments by means of changes to the tax scale affecting people using the averaging provisions. It abolished tax concessions for water, soil and fodder conservation. The Labor Government imposed an increase of around $700m in indirect taxes and levies in the last Budget it brought down. It refused to extend the unemployment benefit to primary producers. It cut the amount of funds made available for rural reconstruction by more than $20m. The Labor Government reduced by $119m over three years grants for rural arterial and rural local roads. It repealed the 100 per cent tax write-off provision for certain primary production capital equipment. The Labor Government reduced by two-thirds, to only 9 kilometres, free installation of telephone lines to country areas. Free installation now extends to 12 kilometres. 
What a dramatic change has taken place since the present Government was installed. In its relatively short time in office it has gone a long way towards honouring the commitments that it made to primary producers. The initiatives taken are a start, and a very good start. But I recognise, and of course the Government realises, that very much more must be done to ensure that farmers get a fair deal from the rest of the community and receive a reasonable income for their work and their effort. I certainly do not in any sense apologise for what has been done so far. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Cabinet have spent many hundreds of man hours seeking answers to the grave problems confronting our farmers. These answers are not easy to find. Any sensible, reasonable person recognises that. But the Government has acted fairly and responsibly. 
Let us look at what the Government has done. It has extended the eligibility for the unemployment benefit to farmers who are suffering financial hardship and who have registered for employment. Special statutory reserve deposits have been released to improve the liquidity of major trading banks for term loans and farm development loans. In June 1976 some $106m was made available for term loans and $53m was made available for farm development loans, making a total of $ 159m. A further $132m was provided in September 1977, $84m of which was or term loans and $48m of which was for farm development loans. A new scheme was introduced from 1 January 1977 to continue carry-on loans, debt reconstruction and farm build-up. A $55m approval program was provided in 1977-78, and that provision represented an increase of $22m over that for the previous year. 
The Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme was introduced. The Commonwealth has provided $23m in 1978 for that scheme. The scheme reduces the price of imports for Tasmanian farmers and enables them to compete on a cornarable basis with their mainland counterparts, Some important changes have been made in relation to estate duty. A special deduction of $50,000 is to apply in cases where an interest in an estate passes to a surviving spouse. In the case of an estate of a primary producer passing wholly to a surviving spouse, it will be entirely free of Federal estate duty if valued at $98,000 or less. 
The devaluation of the Australian dollar, of course, helped the primary producer and all of our export industries. The important investment allowance of 40 per cent was introduced for expenditure incurred from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 197S in acquiring new plant and equipment. A rate of 20 per cent will apply to expenditure from 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1983. That represents an important change for primary producers. The tax averaging provisions were modified to ensure that the tax payment of a primary producer on a fluctuating income is no greater than that paid by any taxpayer receiving the same average income. The effect of these provisions will be to ensure that the averaging system enables farmers to put funds aside in those few years when unusual seasons and markets generate higher than normal taxable incomes. Similarly, in years of poor seasons and poor markets the farmer will pay no more tax than the average earner in those years of income. Therefore the inequity of the Hayden rebate system for farmers with fluctuating incomes has been repealed. 
I mention briefly some of the assistance being provided to the beef industry. It includes a total of $28m being provided for carry-on loans during 1976-77 and 1977-78, and the suspension of the Labor imposed meat export inspection charge which will save producers an estimated $28m in 1977-78. Many other important steps have been taken on behalf of beef producers, but I do not have time to mention them now. Similarly, a lot has been done for the dairy industry. Legislation was passed in June 1977 to provide for the introduction of stage one of the new marketing arrangements for the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. 
-It has been a great help to dairy farmers in Tasmania, and particularly in the electorate of Braddon. The stage one arrangements, which came into operation on 1 July 1977, provide for a compulsory levy disbursement scheme to replace the voluntary equalisation scheme operated by the industry, which ceased on 30 June 1977. The Budget includes an appropriation of $6.5m to cover part of the Government's underwriting commitments for the dairy industry for the 1975-76 and the 1976- 77 seasons. The cost of underwriting in 1977- 78 will be a cost to the next Budget. Unfortunately I don't have time to mention everything that has been done. I want here and now to congratulate the Government on bringing in so many measures to help the farmers and their families and to provide a sound basis for ultimate recovery and eventual growth in the rural sector. Much more needs to be done and, given time, it will be done. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.16)-The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  stated that members of the Australian Labor Party had a lack of knowledge of primary industry. I do not know on what basis he made that statement. I can inform him that many of us have long family connections as well as personal connections with primary industry. I am one of the members on this side of the chamber who have had a long family connection and also a personal associaton with primary industry. The debate on the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry concerns the Department's administration of Australia's agricultural industries. I am very reluctant to criticise the Department because I realise that it is only carrying out the Fraser Government's lopsided and biased policy towards the primary industries. The honourable member for Braddon read out a long list of things which he claimed the Labor Party had done and which were injurious to primary industry. I think it can be said that many of our primary industries are now in such a serious economic situation that it is very difficult for one to sort out the priorities here. Not only are they going through a very serious economic situation at the present time but also they are facing a worsening economic future. 
Because the dried fruit and citrus fruit industries at present are suffering urgent problems, I what to deal with some of the problems of those industries. Last weekend I was asked to visit the dried fruit growing area and to acquaint myself with some of the problems, particularly those resulting from the storm damage at Monak- the district that was struck by the freak tornado that devastated so much of the Redcliffs area. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  has mentioned already the problems in that area, but I want to touch on the effect of that storm on some of the areas in my electorate. Although it did not cover as great an area of my electorate, the tornado was just as devastating for those in its path. Those people are facing damage of ruinous proportions. I saw 100 acres of vines stripped of the current season's fruit. Hailstones also damaged the wood of the vines to such an extent that it is very likely that the next season's crop also will be greatly reduced. It is estimated that not only has this season's crop been ruined but also at least 50 per cent of next season's crop will suffer. 
The damage covered the much wider area of citrus fruit growing. Oranges, mandarins and grapefruit have suffered very extensive damage. It reminded me of the damage caused by the spur-throated locust plague that I saw in another part of my electorate some years ago. The spurthroated locusts damaged all the crops in that area. As a result of the storm one could see areas where hail had hit the trees, all the leaves had gone and the fruit had holes in it as though it had been shot with .22 bullets. Underneath the trees one could see a carpet of oranges, mandarins and grapefruit. It is sad that both the State and Federal governments appear to be very slow in coming forward and giving these people some guarantee that they will nave a chance of carrying on in the future. The situation is particularly tragic because the last ten years, except for last year, have been hard years for the industry. Last year was a reasonable year and it was anticipated that this year also would be a good one. 
Under normal circumstances the future of the industry is very grim. Early last year or late in the year before the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  himself spoke about the rationalisation of the industry. The findings of the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the dried fruits industry caused growers to become desperately concerned about the future and, in the depressed state of the real estate market, forced them to make wrong decisions or at least unjustly unfavourable decisions. While all these things are happening, it is unfortunate that the growers are receiving no assistance and no encouragement to provide self-help schemes to cover natural disasters. Ever since I entered this Parliament I have heard governments mention hailstorm insurance schemes, but they seem to be very reluctant to introduce them. As a matter of fact, on this occasion the Government acted in the opposite direction by taxing the undistributed profit of the self-help scheme which the growers had introduced. They now have only $328,000 in the insurance scheme to cover damage estimated to cost between $14m and $15m. It is terrible that the Government should be doing such a thing to them at a time when they badly need assistance. 
I warn the Liberal Party and the National Country Party that the dried fruit industry is looking for its own Barry Cassell. Like the beef producers, the dried fruit growers do not believe that the Fraser Government is justified in giving the Utah Development Co. another $27m handout and letting them starve during a period of national disaster. It is time that the Government really did something for these people. There is an absolute lack of Government policy with relation to tariff protection for the existing efficient horticultural industries. Such a policy should be developed with a clear understanding of the reasonable right of growers to meet Australian domestic consumption. I refer in particular to the citrus juice industry. I believe that this is an indictment of the Government for allowing imported citrus juices to be dumped on the Australian market when these people who have built up their industry on the understanding that they would be able to supply the domestic market are now suffering because of the Government's policy. 
Nearly every horticultural industry, including the vine fruits industry, and totally dependent communities can be ruined almost overnight by lack of proper protection and by the dumping from overseas. The loss to Australia as a whole will be inevitable and great, especially when world conditions change and when supplies from overseas no longer can be obtained. It seems to me to be strange that a government which is always informing us of its concern for the unemployed should allow the level of unemployment to increase by not giving protection to these industries. According to the  Daily Advertiser  of Friday, 7 October, the total rural employment in Australia has declined by an average of 110 people a week for the past 23 years. I remind the honourable member for Braddon who has just criticised the Labor Government's treatment of the rural industries that for only three of those 23 years was the Labor Government in office. This is what has happened: People are leaving rural industry at the rate of 1 10 a week. The current unemployment rates in rural areas are up to four times the rate in the metropolitan area, due principally to the immediate and multiplier effects of the rural recession. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
I am pleased to have this opportunity to support this important legislation to provide financial assistance from the Commonwealth to the people of Queenstown and this important mining company, the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. I am sorry for the people of Cobar but delighted for the people of Queenstown that this assistance is to be provided. Honourable members will recall that on a number of occasions I have explained to the House in some detail the grave problems confronting this company in Queenstown and the people of the town. As the House knows, those grave problems have resulted from a combination of factors but essentially a rapid increase in overheads in recent times and a difficulty with world copper prices which have continued to be much lower than expected for some considerable time. The operations of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd are of vital importance to Queenstown, and to the people living in the nearby centre of Gormanston and, to a lesser degree, those living in Strahan. In fact, the mine employs over half of the work force in this region. The company has indicated that unless it gets some reasonable assistance from the Government it Will be forced to close the mine which obviously will have disastrous effects on not only this important part of Tasmania but also the whole of Tasmania. 
The purpose of this BUI is to obtain the approval of the Parliament for the Government to enter into agreements with the Tasmanian Government for the provision of temporary assistance for the company pending the Federal Government's decision on the interim Industries Assistance Commission report. There has been a great deal of misunderstanding in the minds of the people of Queenstown on the nature of the LAC report and the procedure to be followed in handing down the report and making decisions based on the report. Some of that misunderstanding has resulted from one or two people quite deliberately misrepresenting the situation in an attempt to gain cheap political advantage. I am very disappointed that people should try to use the anguish and despair of people involved in this crisis purely for political purposes. I shall endeavour to explain to the House the sequence of events as they have occurred and will occur. 
Honourable members will recall that the Industries Assistance Commission was requested by the Minister for Business and Consumer 
Affairs  (Mr Fife)  on 4 August 1977 to inquire into and report on the possibility of assistance being given to the copper ores and concentrates industry. The Government was concerned about the serious situation in Queenstown and asked the LAC to provide an interim report on whether short term assistance should be accorded the Mount Lyell company. That report on short term assistance was requested by the then Minister to be provided within 60 days. On 15 August 1977, following my representations to the Minister, the Federal Government announced that in order to assist the Mount Lyell company to continue operating it would join with the Tasmanian State Government to offer assistance to the company to meet its cash shortfall in operations from 15 August until the Commonwealth announced its decision on the interim LAC report. There was an agreement between the Federal and State governments for which approval of this House is being sought in this legislation. Commonwealth assistance is by means of section 96 grants to Tasmania on a dollar for dollar matching basis with assistance offered by the State Government. My understanding is that the agreement with Tasmania has been virtually finalised and the date incorporated in the agreement was 2 November 1977, which is today. In other words, the agreement under which the cash shortfall is to be met operates from the date I have already mentioned, 15 August of this year, until today. I do note that provision has been made in this Bill to extend the agreement until 30 June 1978 should that in fact be necessary. 
It is worth noting that in a report of the Industries Assistance Commission, following the previous reference on the question of short term assistance for the production of copper ores and concentrates in September 1975, it found that low copper prices were causing liquidity problems for a number of producers, as in fact they are now. It was then recommended that loan guarantees be made to those companies unable to secure loans on acceptable terms without these guarantees. It is important to note that although this IAC recommendation was accepted by the Government, no company made use of the facility for government guarantees. This underlines the need for any company involved in this sort of situation in fact to accept any reasonable offer of assistance which might be made by the Government. The point that must be made clear to honourable members, to people who are directly concerned with the company and with Queenstown is that the IAC has not yet handed down its final report on assistance to the copper ores and concentrates industry. That is an important point to note. In fact the inquiry being conducted by the IAC has not yet concluded. The IAC has, however, completed an interim report-and I stress the word 'interim '-on the question of short term assistance. 
I understand that this interim report which canvasses the possibility of a continuation of short term assistance pending the final IAC report is now before the Government. I trust that a decision on that report Will be made without undue delay. It still remains for the Commission to report to the Government on long term assistance. It is expected to be some time early next year, at least before 30 June 1978, that the Government will receive this final report. This is not a new revelation. These facts have been known for some time. So this legislation that the House is now considering has nothing to do with the provision of long term help for the Mount Lyell Company, nor is it legislation brought in to implement any decision of the IAC. All it is doing is seeking parliamentary approval for the execution of agreements between the Commonwealth and the State which were promised and announced by the Ministers concerned in both the Federal Government and the Tasmanian Government on 15 August 1977. 
Having said that, I want to make my position clear. To me the situation in Queenstown is one which cannot be solved without help from the governments, both State and Federal. I will leave no stone unturned to secure that assistance. At the moment it looks as though world copper prices will remain low for many months and the Government must come in on some reasonable basis to bridge the gap to give the company and the town some breathing space until the mining operations become commercially viable again. The solution inevitably Will be a joint effort involving both the State and Federal governments and the company. The company has an important role to play in seeking a solution. Without its agreement any offer from the government means very little. I trust that the company in this instance will show its good faith and accept any reasonable offer that may be forthcoming. Frankly the fact that the company not so long ago wrote down a substantial proportion of its assets in Queenstown is a matter of some significance and of some concern to me. Having had a long personal association with the people of Queenstown dating back to the early 1950s- in fact I had a sister living there for many yearsand knowing the people in the town so very well, I am not prepared to see the town neglected by either the State or the Federal government. In fact, it has not been neglected. I give full credit to both Governments- the State Government in Tasmania, despite the fact that it is a Labor Government, and this Federal Government- for what they have done to date. The assistance provided has been generous. To my knowledge, the temporary help provided by this legislation which is now before the House and which could amount to a payment of the order of $lm being made by this Government is unique. 
-I thank the honourable member very much. Never before in the history of Federation has a government provided this sort of help pending a detailed report into a company's operations. If we work out the figures on a per capita basis we find that the financial help being provided to the people of Queenstown by the Federal Government is very significant. However, it is help that the people of Queenstown deserve. The mine there has been operating continuously for some 80 years. Over those 80 years the people who work very hard in the mine have paid a fortune in taxes. Therefore, it is appropriate that in these times of very serious and real need in Queenstown governments are prepared to recognise the contribution made by the Queenstown people not only to the town itself and to its community but to the wealth of Australia and redirect some of the money back to the town in the form of this special assistance. 
The spirit of Queenstown and of the people of Queenstown remains high. The people there remain quietly confident and quietly hopeful that the industry and the town will survive. Continued generous government assistance is necessary to ensure that that hope is fulfilled. I commend the work being done in Queenstown to find a solution to the present predicament. Over the past months I have worked closely with the warden of Queenstown,  Mr Bruce  Dilger, with the members of the council as a whole, with  Mr Russell  Maher, the present of the West Coast Trades and Labour Council and with the members of his council, with the local manager of the mine, with officials of the company involved, with organisations and business people in the town and with the ordinary hard working citizens of Queenstown. Many of the people with whom I have been in constant contact are not from my side of politics. But our good relations have been born out of a mutual concern for the future of the town. I know that the understanding and the trust that we have will continue to exist until a final lasting solution can be found. 
I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the Ministers concerned in the issue,  Mr 
Anthony, the Minister for National Resources, and  Mr Fife,  the Minister for Business and Consumer and Affairs, who came to Queenstown with me. We had a very interesting day there discussing the problems of the town with the local people, with members of the council and with officials from the company. We went underground together. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has a very deep understanding and knowledge of the town and the company and their problems. He has continued to take a very keen and active interest in this issue. Similarly our own Minister from Tasmania,  Mr Kevin  Newman, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, has done much work on this issue and is very concerned for the people of Queenstown.  Mr Viner,  the Minister assisting the Treasurer has worked hard. Of course, the Prime Minister himself has been actively involved in this issue. He has taken a keen and active interest in these problems. On one occasion, a delegation came from Queenstown to the Parliament here in Canberra without any notice. The Prime Minister opened his door immediately and in we went to see him to discuss the problems of Queenstown at some length and in some depth. I thank the Prime Minister for his efforts. 
Similarly, I am pleased that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is in the chamber at the moment. I am pleased with the very active support I have had from my parliamentary colleagues from Tasmania. They have worked very hard with me to obtain this assistance. They have given me every support and I know that they will continue to do so until we have solved these problems. I trust that the Government will continue to provide assistance for the company and for the people of Queenstown after these current agreements with the State Government have expired. The problems of Queenstown, as I say, are most serious and desperately need assistance. I know that we will provide this assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (11.30)-The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  a Government supporter, said that he was sorry for Cobar but happy that the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd had received assistance. He should be sorry for the Cobar copper mine. The Industries Assistance Commission report on copper ore and concentrates of 14 November 1975 shows that the Cobar copper mine put a similar case to that of the Mount Lyell mine. It is surprising that this evening a BUI is before the House to provide assistance for the Mount Lyell mine but no assistance for the Cobar copper mine. I inform the honourable member for Braddon and members of the Government that it is not good enough to give us sympathy. I demand that a Bill be introduced to give the Cobar copper mine assistance similar to that going to the Mount Lyell mine. I remember that prior to the last election Government supporters went into the Cobar area and told the Cobar people what kind of assistance this Government would give them. My advice to any member of the Government is to keep as far away as possible from Cobar during the election campaign unless something similar to the assistance contained in this Bill is introduced for the Cobar people. 
This is the first time you have raised this matter. 
The Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Bill 1977 has many shortcomings which the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  sought to hide in his second reading speech. He failed. Early in his second reading speech he made this point obvious when he said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek Parliament's approval to the implementation of the Government's decision, by authorising the execution of an agreement or agreements between the Commonwealth and Tasmania for the provision of assistance to Tasmania. 
The assistance is not to Tasmania; it is to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. Why does the Government say 'agreement or agreements'? Will there be one agreement or several? If there are to be several agreements why did not the Minister spell that out in his second reading speech? One can hardly call this a Bill for an Act; it is a poorly concealed notice that the Government is to give the Mount Lyell Mining Co. some assistance that is not available to other copper mining companies in Australia. I agree with the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The Opposition clearly indicates that it does not oppose assistance going to the Mount Lyell mine. We are only opposing the unfairness of the Government's attitude and the fact that other copper mining companies in similar circumstances are not receiving similar assistance. Later on the Minister said: 
The Bill thus provides for the contingency that some interim extension of the present assistance might be warranted following the Government's consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's interim report on the copper industry, and having regard to the company's developing cash flow situation. 
This is the way the Government intends to hand out $lm for three months' assistance to the Mount Lyell Mining Co. We point out to the Australian public that even in the dying stages of the life of this thirtieth Parliament the Government has given a clear indication of its slaphappy method of handling the economy of the country. It must be obvious to all Australians that the statement leaves a lot of questions unanswered. For instance, we are not told whether, if the recommendation of the IAC is not followed, other copper mines will receive the same assistance; whether towns such as Cobar will be left to die while Mount Lyell is given assistance. 
Later in his second reading speech the Minister had this to say: 
Honourable members will appreciate that the agreement being negotiated with Tasmania is necessarily complex, not least because of the need for precise definition of the detailed accounting concepts to which the assistance must be related. 
We are not informed what the precise definition of the detailed accounting concepts would amount to, but what we can say is that, if we examine the appeals made by the Broken Hill South Mine and the copper mine at Cobar, the Government has on this occasion been more than generous in providing an interest-free loan to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister went on to say that should the mine be unable to achieve a cash flow position the Commonwealth's advances to Tasmania would not be repayable. The Government's decision is out of character with its previous treatment of mining companies and mining communities. I remember that when the South Mine at Broken Hill closed I appealed several times to the Government for assistance, but overnight the value of miners' homes was reduced by about half, and they were obliged to walk out of the town without assistance, as happened also to many of the miners in Cobar. 
The Minister said further: 
While it is not practicable at this stage to calculate precisely the cost of this assistance, I can give the House an indication of the order of magnitude. Thus it is estimated that, for a period of continued operation of the mine from 1 3 August 1977 to 2 November 1977, the cost of the Commonwealth's contribution would be approximately Sim. I believe the Government's action in this matter has again shown its concern for the welfare of the Australian communities suffering adverse effects from international economic conditions. 
Hear, hear! 
If the statement of the Minister were true it would have prevented the South Mine at Broken Hill from closing and have avoided much suffering by the people of Cobar; Members of the Opposition find it hard to believe that the Fraser Government has suddenly discovered concern for the ordinary people of the nation and is taking steps to provide them with employment. Time after time it has turned a deaf ear to appeals of mining communities for assistance. I point out that such assistance, not only in this case but also in most cases in mining areas, would have paid big dividends for the economy of the nation. Because of this, we must assess how profitable rnining has been in Australia. If we turn to the LAC report on the petroleum and mining industries of 28 May 1976 we find that in the seven years to 1974 the returns, before tax, on total funds invested by the 27 largest mineral producers varied between 1 1 per cent and 16 per cent. At the same time a large number of small mining companies ran at a loss and went out of business. Some of the mines in my own electorate at the present time are doing quite well but others are running down their liquidity quickly. We see smaller mines closing down, and others, such as the Cobar mines, just carrying on a holding operation. Many of the miners, of course, have already left and found work in other places. 
I believe that this Parliament has a responsibility to give consideration to these facts and to have a look at the whole mining industry. It should not just bring down some legislation here that will assist the Mount Lyell Mining and Rail.way Co. Ltd. Although that assistance could well be warranted, the Government should examine the whole mining industry and give assistance generally where it is needed. I believe that the facts are there that will prove that an expansion of the mining industry is essential to the long term revival of the Australian economy. If anyone wishes to gauge the stimulus that mining can give to other industries of Australia I ask them to examine George Blainey's book  The Rush That Never Ended.  It deals largely with the profits of the North and South mines at Broken Hill. These are the mines that the Government refused to assist. Other Australian industries have developed out of the operation of those mines. 
In answer to questions in this House both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  have admitted that much of the profit came out of the mining companies in Broken HU1. While this was happening in Broken HU1 other mines in the area were going to the wall. Although this is a national success story, the results could have been vastly different. Unfortunately, it was not to the Government's credit that this happened. It was due mainly to the sensible industrial relations along the lines of lode. The industrial system at Broken HU1 often is criticised, but on two occasions the miners themselves accepted a worsening of conditions so that the mines could recover. On one ocasion they accepted a reduction in wages, and on another occasion they accepted a nine-shift fortnight. I was in the negotiating parties on that occasion. I believe that the Government should look at sensible working arrangements along the lines of lode at Broken HU1. That system of negotiation could well be adopted in other industries in Australia. I want to finish with the remarks with which I commenced: I believe that this Government has a responsibility to bring down a similar BUI to cover the Cobar mines. If such a BUI is not introduced before this House rises it is my intention to go to the Press and point out the unfairness of this Government. I assure honourable members opposite that they will not get any votes in the Cobar area unless something is done about this matter. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by pointing out to the House that the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, which is generally recognised as the single most important initiative ever taken by a Federal government to assist Tasmania, has been operating now for well over 12 months. I ask: Has the Government had an opportunity yet to assess the impact of this scheme? If so, can the Prime Minister say whether it has assisted in alleviating the serious problems faced by Tasmanian industries because of high freight costs? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
What was the total amount paid by the Commonwealth to all companies, commissions or individuals by way of subsidy, assistance or otherwise for transport operations to or from Tasmania during each of the years from 1973-74 to 1976- 77 inclusive and what is the proposed expenditure for 
1977- 78. 
Will he provide a detailed breakdown of the expenditure or proposed expenditure referred to in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
What total sum is currently standing to the credit of persons in savings bank accounts in Australia, and what were the amounts (a) 1, (b) 2 and (c) 3 years ago. 
How many persons have savings accounts at savings banks in Australia at the present time, and what were the figures (a) 1, (b) 2 and (c) 3 years ago. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
Will he provide the names of all persons currently employed in Tasmania, full or part-time, whose salaries or stipend are paid out of Commonwealth funds and whose responsibilities relate primarily to the welfare of Aboriginal people. 
What office does each person hold and precisely what is the nature of his or her duties. 
Where is the usual place of work of each of these persons. 
What is the current rate of salary or stipend of each of these persons. 
5 ) If any of these persons has been employed or engaged for a period in excess of 2 years, what amount has he or she received in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What sum has the Commonwealth spent on all aid to Aborigines in Tasmania in each of the years from 1972-73 to 1976- 77, inclusive, and how much is it proposed so spend in 1977- 78. 
How many persons of Aboriginal descent are now resident in Tasmania, giving a breakdown for each electoral division in that State. 
What amount has been spent on Aboriginal legal aid in Tasmania in each of the years from 1972-73 to 1975-76, inclusive. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965, 1 present the annual report and financial statements of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I thank the honourable member for this very timely question. The Government has decided to provide a total of $225,000 to assist our national team to compete at the Edmonton Games to be held in August of this year. That figure will be made up of two amounts: a lump sum grant of $150,000 will be provided to help offset the expenses of equipping and transporting the team to Edmonton, and the balance, $75,000 will be used to establish a pregames training fund. The grant of $ 1 50,000 is a very significant increase on the $35,000 allocated to the team which went to Christchurch, New Zealand, for the 1974 Games. The pre-training fund is a new initiative. It has been established because the Government recognises that these games will be held out of season for our Australian athletes. In order to ensure maximum performance it is desirable that athletes have some form of pre-event training to help them to acclimatise to the conditions in the Northern Hemisphere and to provide additional high level competition prior to the games. I recognise, and the Government recognises, that the Commonwealth Games Association must raise substantial additional funds to pay for the team's total expenses. The Government is confident that the business community and the public will support the fund raising efforts to ensure Australia 's success at Edmonton. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964, I present the thirteenth annual report on the administration and operation of that Act and, pursuant to section 53 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976, 1 present the first annual report on the administration and operation of that Act during the year 1976-77. 
-Actually, I heard that the Collingwood team intended to change its colours to pink and white, but I will have to check that fact. The honourable member said that Australian rules has not had national representatives. That is not true. The Galahs team toured in 1966 under Harry Bietzel. The choice of team colours for the Commonwealth Games team is not a matter for the Government nor for me but is a matter for the Australian Commonwealth Games Association. I understand that a meeting was held in Sydney on 18 February at which the colours were decided. There is to be a marchingout uniform which will be blue and gold. I am told that these are Australia's traditional ceremonial colours. It is important to note that there is a difference between the ceremonial colours and the competition colours. The competition colours will be the traditional green and gold. These colours have been worn since the first games were held in 1911. This decision is consistent with practice adopted at previous games, at which the colours of the marching-out uniform have been different from the colours of the competition uniform. I understand that the main reason for the difference is related to the visual impact of colour television. 
It is true that my Department has been involved in that matter. In order to give the honourable member precise details, I will need to check on the facts and I will let him know. 
It is sad in a way to have to reflect that many of the pressures that the housing industry, along with other sectors of industry, has to bear are a direct heritage of the decisions made by honourable members opposite when they were in government. The housing industry is particularly influenced by monetary policy. Monetary policy has to bear the excessive brunt of adjustment when we face inflationary situations such as those created by the previous Australian Labor Party Government. The worst example of monetary instability was in the period 1973-1975. In this period the rate of growth in the money supply, broadly defined, fluctuated from an annual rate of more than 20 per cent in 1973 to less than 10 per cent in 1974, and back to 20 per cent growth in 1975. It was not surprising, therefore, that the housing industry has had a series of peaks and troughs in recent years. It enjoyed a healthy boom in 1973 - perhaps one should say it enjoyed a heady boom in 1 973- and followed the rest of the country to a sharp recession during 1 974 but recovered moderately in 1976-77. 
Such instability- I think it is vital in this debate to note that there has been significant instability in this industry- is bad for home buyers, bad for builders, bad for workers within the industry, bad for sub-contractors, bad for the suppliers who supply the industry with materials and, indeed, bad for the economy. The damage done may take years to be corrected. Economic studies carried out by my Department show that whilst cost increases vary rapidly during times of overstretched resources it takes much longer to moderate these increases at times of slacker activity. The stance adopted by the present Government, of course, contrasts very much with the stance adopted by the previous Administration. When in government its approach was a completely ad hoc approach. Its policy towards the building and construction industry was never constant and never heading in the one direction. The Labor Government just did not have an overall economic policy to pursue. There was no clear guideline for it to follow in deciding whether those who were investing within the industry should outlay thousands of dollars or millions of dollars in new investment, or whether they should delay doing so or whether they should not invest any money at all. 
This Government, in complete contrast, has held a steady course since coming to power. It has had an over-riding objective of reducing the heritage of inflation left behind by the previous 
Administration. We have stated continually that the most important single way of getting this country back on the road to economic recovery is to break the back of inflation. It is only in this way that we can restore consumer and business confidence. It is only when the community knows that the inflationary spiral which so crippled our economy has been brought to a satisfactory level that we can expect business confidence to return in this country and we can expect confidence to return to the home building industry. 
It is important to note that the Government has been consistent in pursuing three essential objectives within the housing area: Encouragement of home ownership, concentration on areas of greatest need within the community and ensuring economic conditions conducive to a stable and adequate building industry. All those primary objectives are related and of course, all have a significant bearing, on the home building industry itself. But I suggest that one cannot separate the needs of the people for housing from the needs of the particular industry. The building industry- especially the home building industryis a very important part of the economy. The Government's efforts to create lasting economic growth are particularly relevant to the building industry. 
The Government inherited a housing environment which has made progress quite difficult to achieve. Inflation, of course, was rampant until the time we took office. In particular, building costs had gone through the roof. The deposit gap was so great that home ownership was beyond the reach of an increasing proportion of young families. Welfare housing policies of the previous Labor Government ignored those within the community who were in greatest need. I suggest that a great deal has been done to provide more generously for the housing needs of Australians -indeed, all Australians- and also, as a result of those efforts, to assist those within the home building industry. The most important achievement, of course, has been the manner in which we have borne down on inflation. The facts speak for themselves and no one could argue with them. Inflation is now down to single digit figures. This has been of invaluable assistance to the particular industry that we are now debating. 
Comments were made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  about the situation of housing finance. Again, many things have been done by the present Government to assist with housing finance and thus to encourage home ownership. We amended the regulations under the Banking Act in May 1977 to permit increased lending by the savings banks. In the 
Budget Speech we encouraged lenders to increase lending for private houses. The former Treasurer and the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  have made a number of comments to encourage people within the lending industry to provide further funds for home building. We have provided additional funds for the Homes Savings Grant Scheme. I wish to make one or two comments about that scheme because it is relevant to this particular subject. 
One point that I think needs to be made and needs to be made strongly but which would be in disagreement with some of the comments made by the honourable member for Reid is that there has been a firm increase in the volume of funds available for housing in the six months between July and December last year. There has been a significant increase in those funds. The total funds made available by building societies and by banks for home purchases and home building totalled $2,237. lm which was an increase of 5.2 per cent over the equivalent period between July and December 1976. 1 have just mentioned the Homes Savings Grant Scheme. The Government honoured its promise of introducing a new homes savings grant scheme. The new scheme, of course, is more liberal than the previous scheme which the Labor Government sought to abolish and, in fact, did abolish. There are no limitations on the value of the home or the age or marital status of applicants. 
The honourable member for Reid said that he would drop the scheme again. The scheme is on the basis of $1 for each $3 held in approved accounts. In this calendar year thousands of couples and single people around Australia will receive up to $1,333 under the Homes Savings Grant Scheme. This, of course, will be increased to up to $2,000 from 1 January next year for those people who have sufficient funds in the required accounts. At the moment, applications are running at the significant rate- a much greater rate than last year- of 1,100 applications per week and a substantial number of those applications are being granted. In this current financial year the scheme will put more than $34m into the hands of home buyers and into the hands of the people who are building their first homes. A substantial amount of that $3 4m will in fact go to the purchase of new homes and will, therefore, greatly assist the home building industry. 
The honourable member for Reid mentioned welfare housing. I must make reference to the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. In 1977-78, a total of $390m will be advanced to the States of which $272m, that is 70 per cent, will go to State housing authorities for public housing and $1 18m, that is 30 per cent, will go to home builders accounts. There are, of course, needs tests applying to those amounts. The honourable member for Reid would not dispute that. In order to receive a housing grant for a family dwelling the bread winner's income, excluding overtime, must not exceed 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. For a home builders account the limit on income is 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. Therefore, we are directing funds to those in greatest need. 
A new agreement has been negotiated. I must compliment my predecessor, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  for the great deal of work he did in negotiating with the State Ministers to create a new housing agreement which is a significant advance on the one that has existed for a number of years. The essential factor is that there will be greater flexibility for the State governments to decide how they might spend their funds and, in particular, how they might direct their funds to home purchasers. Again, this will greatly assist those people who are dependent upon the home building industry. It will indirectly provide surpluses for reinvestment within the housing industry and so will stimulate that industry. 
I think it should be mentioned that the honourable member for Reid and, I suspect, other honourable members opposite have fallen into the old trap of misusing figures and statistics to support their cases and to suit their own ends. It is important that I should warn them, as my predecessor did, about the inherent dangers in plucking certain figures for a short period, such as one month, out of the air and holding up those isolated figures as a positive indication of the current state of the industry. To use the most recent figures on dwelling approvals and to say therefore that the home building industry is in a critical situation is to act in a most misleading way. The fact is that the latest figures issued for January are notoriously unreliable, as they are for each January. It is a month when councils meet irregularly for the purpose of granting approvals and the figures released at the end of January were for approvals. It is a well accepted fact that it is a more accurate approach to look at trends, that is, figures over a longer period than one month- perhaps a minimum period of three months, and preferably for a much longer period. 
What is the current trend? As I mentioned earlier, following a short, sharp recession in 1974 recovery began in late 1975 and developed through 1976 when growth within the home building industry was quite strong. We then entered a flat period in 1977, essentially because of a substantial build-up of stocks. This flat period has been recognised by the present Government and, as I mentioned previously, a number of significant steps have been taken to rectify the position and an improving trend within the home building industry is now developing. The excess stock situation which was certainly critical during 1977- there was a substantial build-up of stocks of houses on the market during that year- is easing and excess stocks are reducing. I believe and the Government believes that the stock situation should not be an impediment to growth within the industry in the foreseeable future. 
To summarise the situation generally, the Government anticipates a moderate level of growth within the home building industry during the present calendar year. During the calendar year 1977 there were 125,000 commencements. During the current calendar year 1978 the Government anticipates 132,000 commencements. The Government remains quite hopeful of achieving a figure higher than 132,000, especially as the general economy continues to improve. The situation is being carefully monitored by the Government. It recognises the comments being made within the industry and the concern felt in some sectors of the industry, particularly in some States. I think some of those comments were substantiated, at least in part, by some of the comments made by the honourable member for Reid. The Government is monitoring the situation closely. It rejects the contention of the honourable member for Reid that the current situation is critical. It is not critical at this time. It is improving. It will continue to improve as the Government continues to bear down on inflation and to reduce interest rates. 
-I did notice the Press report to which the honourable member referred. It certainly is encouraging that this forecaster has predicted significant growth in the home building industry during 1978. 1 think everyone would recognise- the Government recognises--that the home building industry is a vital industry and a vital part of the Australian economy, lt is fair to say that in recent months it has been going through a rather flat period. This forecast suggested that the quarterly dwelling commencements would grow throughout 1978 and that in the December quarter, in particular, they should be about 25 per cent higher than they were in the December quarter of 1 977. Forecasts that were recently made by my Department also indicate that there will be increased levels of activity during the latter half of 1978. Those forecasts are not quite as optimistic as the forecasts made by Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd. Nevertheless, they do show a trend towards growth. Both the industry and home buyers, especially, should be encouraged by the more certain prospects for increased construction activity during this year. I believe that these result very substantially from the success of the Government 's general economic policies. 
For the information of honourable members I present the summary report of the sixth meeting of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers, Cairns, 29 July 1977, and the summary record of proceedings of the ninth meeting of the Australian Environment Council, Canberra, 1 1 August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(2)$221,088. 

the Commonwealth Government has undertaken to provide a minimum of $10,000 for the event in 1 977-78 to assist with planning costs. 
the Victorian Government has provided a once only grant of $25,000 for the event. 

45 countries have been invited to participate in the championships. To date 16 countries have confirmed that they will be competing. 
Up to 900 athletes and officials are expected to participate. 
The staging of world championship sporting contests produces a number of benefits in the host country, including greater interest in the particular sport involved, tourism revenue and improved relations with those countries participating in the event. 
The information is provided in Table 1. 
The level of financial assistance provided to the Australian Amateur Fencing Federation for the staging of the 1979 World Fencing Championships will be reviewed by the Sports Advisory Council in 1978-79 and 1979-80. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the calendar year 1977, the following number of grants were approved under the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a number of amendments to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act which has been in operation for two years. In that time the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority has been working in co-operation with the Queensland Government and the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. Clause 3 of the Bill removes from the principal Act the requirement that the  Chairman  of the Authority must hold special academic qualifications and have experience in the field of biological conservation. The provision to be removed by this Bill is considered not only unduly to limit the range of prospective appointees but also could leave open to challenge the appointment of a person who appears to be very suitably qualified. 
The decision to include this amendment in no sense indicates that the Government sees a different role emerging for the Authority and its  Chairman.  Quite the contrary. The Government recognises that the position of  Chairman  is a most important one and the appointee must certainly hold suitable qualifications or have the specialised experience necessary to guide the Authority in carrying out its functions. This concept is reflected in the amendment to sub-section 6 of section 10 which will require the  Chairman  as well as the other members of the Authority to possess qualifications or extensive experience in a field related to the functions of the Authority. 
The Bill empowers the Authority to appoint one of its members to the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee and makes the necessary machinery amendments to sections 23 to 27 to distinguish between a member appointed by the Authority and those appointed by the Minister. At present the Authority is required to nominate one of its members for appointment by the Minister. The amendment will allow flexibility in the appointment of the Authority's representative and will overcome a difficulty that has arisen under the principal Act whereby the Authority's representative is eligible to remain a member of the Consultative Committee after he ceases to be a member of the Authority. This difficulty has arisen because under the Act the period of a member's appointment to the Authority and Consultative Committee do not coincide. 
The Bill amends the definition of the Great Barrier Reef Region to close the Region at the tip of Cape York Peninsula and exclude the Saumarez Reef from the Region. Advice has been obtained that a failure to close the Region gives rise to serious legal doubt on whether a Region has in fact been declared for the purposes of the Act. The amendment will enable proclamations to be made under the Act declaring parts of the Region to form part of the Marine Park. The amendments exclude the Saumarez Reef from the Region as it is part of the Coral Sea Islands Territory. The description previously included part only of the Reef. Finally, the Bill makes a number of minor machinery amendments to reflect current drafting practice. 
I would like to take advantage of the opportunity presented by the introduction of this Bill to provide honourable members with a brief outline of the Authority's activities. In July 1976,  Sir Charles  Barton, formerly CoordinatorGeneral of Queensland, and  Dr Joseph  Baker, Director of the Roche Research Institute of Marine Pharmacology, were appointed as part time members to the Authority. The Authority was fortunate to have an eminently qualified biologist in  Dr Donald  McMichael as Acting  Chairman  during its formation. The Authority has prepared a report for submission to the Governor-General in the near future recommending the declaration of the first part of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. This part includes the Capricorn and Bunker group of reefs and Lady Elliott Island. In the development of this report the Authority viewed the participation of the public as a vital element in the planning for the Marine Park. This view is one which has already drawn favourable comment in the Press and from members of the public. 
After declaration of an area as part of the Marine Park the Authority's next task is to prepare a zoning plan for that area taking into account the diversity of interests and present activities on that part of the Reef. Once again the Authority will seek the views of the public to ensure the development of a workable and rational plan for that area. Apart from its task in relation to the declaration and zoning of the Marine Park, the Authority is responsible for ensuring that research which is relevant to the Marine Park is carried out. The Authority recognises the importance of the work undertaken by the three research stations located on Heron, One Tree and Lizard islands, and has arranged for research on the Marine Park to be carried out. The Authority will continue to carry out research and gather information relevant to the care and conservation of the Reef. 
The Authority and the Queensland Government together face an enormous responsibility to conserve the Reef. It must protect it against exploitation and destruction whilst, at the same time, taking care not to deprive the public of the enjoyment of this unique resource. An answer to this apparent dilemma, I believe, lies in the implementation of an effective and rational planning scheme for the Marine Park which is based on a consideration of the interests of individuals, community groups and organisations as well as the known biological and physical features of the Reef. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In moving the motion for the second reading of the Bill I want to say that this is an historic occasion. The six Bills being introduced today give effect to commitments made by the Government in this Parliament last August at the time it announced its decision on uranium. In this Bill, and in the Bills that follow the Government gives evidence of its determination to strike a responsible balance between economic development and the protection of the environment. 
Honourable members will recall that very significant deposits of uranium were discovered in the Alligator Rivers region of the Northern Territory in the early 1970s. In 1975 an inquiry was instituted under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 into the proposal by the Ranger consortium to develop uranium deposits at a site some 200 kilometres east of Darwin. Fundamentally, the inquiry was designed to provide a basis on which the Government could take responsible decisions for environmental protection. A commission was appointed to inquire, and I quote from its terms of reference:  in respect of all the environmental aspects of: 
a ) the formulation of proposals; 
b) the carrying out of works and other projects; 
the negotiation, operation and enforcement of agreements and arrangements; 
the making of, or the participation in the making of, decisions and recommendations; and 
the incurring of expenditure,  by, or on behalf of, the Australian Government and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and other authorities of Australia for and in relation to the development by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in association with Ranger Uranium Mines Proprietary Ltd of uranium deposits in the Northern Territory of Australia. 
The first report of the Ranger Inquiry, which was tabled in October 1976, discussed the broad issues confronting Australia as a country with rich and plentiful uranium resources. The questions of proliferation of nuclear weapons, the risk of diversion of nuclear materials from peaceful uses and the problem of safe disposal of radioactive wastes were considered. The second report, which was tabled in May 1977, considered the many issues relating to the specific proposal that uranium be mined in the Alligator Rivers region. The second report contained recommendations on measures to ensure that the necessary degree of environmental protection was provided over the full period of uranium mining developments in the region. As announced last August, the Government decided that the environment of the region would be protected from the consequences of uranium mining through a series of actions. It decided: 
To establish a major national park in the Alligator Rivers region. 
To appoint a Supervising Scientist to coordinate environment protection in the region. 
To set up a research institute to provide a centre where research and monitoring staff can work together. 
To establish a Co-ordinating Committee to include representatives of all agencies involved in research and monitoring activities, the mining industry and other relevant bodies. 
To develop a uniform national code of practice to apply to uranium mining and milling in Australia. 
To adopt strict environmental controls and standards in relation to uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers region. 
The Bill now before the House establishes an office of Supervising Scientist, a Co-ordinating Committee, and a research institute for the region under Commonwealth authority in a way that recognises the existing responsibilities of Commonwealth and Territorial agencies in the region and the interests of the Northern Land Council and the mining companies. 
I would like to refer to the main clauses of this Bill, which, I am sure honourable members will agree, is a very significant piece of environmental legislation. In particular, honourable members will appreciate the scope of the environmental protection measures, in a geographic context, by reference to the schedule attached to the Bill, which is in effect a copy of map 3 from the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The Alligator Rivers region as defined comprises the catchments of the East, South and West Alligator Rivers, Field and Barron Islands and the territorial sea adjacent to this area. The main land area consists of the sandstone Arnhem Land plateau, lowlands, floodplains and tidal flats, as well as hills and river basins at the headwaters of the South Alligator River. It was defined in this way by the Ranger Inquiry to maintain the integrity of the ecosystem which is representative of a large part of the far north of Australia. 
I should like to refer also to the definition in clause 3 of the Bill of 'prescribed instrument'. Honourable members will see that the Supervising Scientist will have functions in respect of a very broad range of activities conferred by prescribed instrument, which include activities carried out under laws both of the Commonwealth and of the Northern Territory. It is expected that much of the administration and enforcement of these prescribed instruments will remain with existing authorities under arrangements to be agreed with the Northern Territory Executive. Thus emphasises the co-ordinating role of the Supervising Scientist as distinct from any suggestion of direction of government agencies operating in the region. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the definition in the Bill of 'uranium mining operations'. A very wide range of actions and activities directly associated with uranium mining in the region are included. It does not, however, cover prospecting and exploration, nor matters concerning the provision of infrastructure services. These will be controlled by the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, through the plan of management for the park, to be prepared and administered under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. 
Part 2 of the Bill deals with the Office of the Supervising Scientist. The functions of the Supervising Scientist are set out in clause 5, and, as honourable members will see, his role is basically threefold. The first is to collect data on the effects on the environment of the region of uranium mining operations. The second is concerned with the development and promotion of standards, practices and procedures for the protection of the environment and with measures for protection and restoration of the environment in the region. The third main function is to co-ordinate and supervise the implementation of requirements for environment protection under prescribed instruments. I emphasise that these functions relate to the consequences of uranium mining activities in the region. 
The Supervising Scientist will advise the Minister on all of these matters and will perform other functions, consistent with his principal role, in accordance with prescribed instruments. In carrying out his functions the Supervising Scientist is required to comply with directions from the Minister and to provide the Minister with any information that he may require. In the clauses dealing with the appointment of the Supervising Scientist, honourable members will note the provisions covering pecuniary interests. I am sure honourable members will appreciate the need to make sure that the Supervising Scientist can undertake his functional responsibilities free of any imputations of financial interests. The Bill includes the usual provisions for remuneration, termination of appointment and the appointment of a person to act as the Supervising Scientist. 
Part 3 of the Bill establishes a Co-ordinating Committee for the Alligator Rivers region. The Bill provides that the Supervising Scientist may convene meetings of the Co-ordinating Committee and that he will preside at all meetings of the Committee at which he is present. The functions of the Co-ordinating Committee are essentially to assist the Supervising Scientist in his role of protecting the environment from the effects of uranium mining operations in the region. It will consider and recommend programs for the collection of data, consider and keep under review standards, practices, procedures and measures for environmental protection and restoration and keep under review requirements and their implementation under prescribed instruments. 
The Co-ordinating Committee is the focal point of the system proposed by the Government for the protection of the environment from the consequences of uranium mining operations in the region. Honourable members will appreciate that there are many varied and at times, conflicting, interests to be considered and reconciled in the Alligator Rivers region. There are many organisations and authorities operating in the region pursuing objectives within their own scope of authority. The role of the Co-ordinating Committee is to provide a forum and a mechanism for these interests and organisations to communicate, consult, consider and reach understandings and agreements on the protection of the environment. It will be the task of the Supervising Scientist, presiding at meetings of the Coordinating Committee, to obtain comprehensive and co-ordinated advice and recommendations which take account of all interests and which have as their primary objective the protection of the environment from uranium mining in the Region. 
In this context the membership of the Coordinating Committee is obviously very important. The Bill provides that the Co-ordinating Committee consist of the Supervising Scientist, the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, and other members appointed by the Minister. The Bill provides that the Minister keep a list of each department, authority, incorporated company, or other body that in his opinion has an interest in uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers region. The Minister will make appointments from people nominated from that list. I expect that membership of the Co-ordinating Committee will include representatives of Commonwealth and Territory government agencies involved in the research, monitoring and environmental protection programs, the Northern Land Council and the mining companies. Other provisions for the Co-ordinating Committee contained in the Bill deal with normal administrative procedures, and cover the appointment of deputies and arrangements to be made in situations where a member may have a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in matters under consideration by the Committee. This latter provision is particularly important because of the need to provide protection in respect to the commercial interests of the mining companies who will be represented on the Committee. 
Part IV of the Bill establishes an Alligator Rivers Region Research Institute. The Institute is to be managed by the Supervising Scientist. It will provide him with the staff and equipment he needs to carry out his functions. Clearly it will be necessary for a comprehensive and well equipped field laboratory to be located in the region. Honourable members will be pleased to know that under the direction of  Mr Robert  Fry, who has been seconded from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development to undertake preliminary functions of the proposed Supervising Scientist, steps have already been taken to establish monitoring of base-line environmental conditions in the region. Using temporary field laboratories, a significant amount of work has already been undertaken to establish a data base for later development of environmental protection programs. 
Part V of the Bill covers the need for the Supervising Scientist to be supported by high calibre staff, with the necessary professional and technical skills. For this reason it gives the Supervising Scientist the powers of a permanent head in respect to staff. With the approval of the Public Service Board, he will be able to engage people and set their terms and conditions of employment. We believe it essential that the Supervising Scientist has this administrative flexibility because of the specialised functions that he is required to perform. Clauses 27 and 28 of the Bill give the Supervising Scientist the power to obtain information and to have access to buildings and places in the region to enable him to carry out his statutory functions including those of managing the Institute- 
Clause 3 1 deals with the confidentiality to be observed by the Supervising Scientist, his delegates, his staff and members of the Public Service who may deal with matters arising under this Act, from time to time. The Bill also ensures that there is close collaboration between the Supervising Scientist and the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. The Director is responsible for the proposed Kakadu National Park. This Bill provides that the Supervising Scientist perform his functions and exercise his powers in accordance with the plan of management in force under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable members to provisions which require the Supervising Scientist to report on his activities. Clause 36 sets out a quite comprehensive list of details that the Supervising Scientist is required to include in an annual report. An important provision within this clause is the one requiring the Supervising Scientist to furnish a statement setting out the cost of his operations during the year. Honourable members should note that the Supervising Scientist furnishes his report to the Minister but that under clause 36 ( 5 ) it is mandatory for the responsible Minister to then lay that report before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days after it is received by the Minister. That provision is vitally important as it provides an opportunity for scrutiny of the Supervising Scientist reports by honourable members and senators from either side of the chambers. 
I want to say particularly that the Government is most concerned to ensure that Aboriginals, whose land and lifestyles are certain to be influenced by the development of large-scale mining operations in the region, are treated fairly. I believe the package of legislation now before the House provides adequate measures to achieve this. Equally, I look forward to the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. I confidently expect that the Commonwealth and the new Government of the Territory will form a genuine and respected partnership in this important enterprise. I believe this Bill and the Bills that follow demonstrate the Government's determination to protect the environment in the region, and to safeguard the interests of people in the Northern Territory and elsewhere in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the second in the package of three Bills under my portfolio which the Government has decided to introduce as part of its policy for uranium mining developments in the Northern Territory. The Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill which I have just introduced dealt with scientific institutions and arrangements- the establishment of an Office of a Supervising Scientist and a Scientific Research Institute. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 to facilitate the declaration of Kakadu National Park in the Alligator Rivers region. Since the park will include land over which Aboriginal land claims have been, or will be, granted, the amendments provide for the leasing of Aboriginal land to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife to manage as a national park. 
The Alligator Rivers region is important in the context of world conservation. An area of outstanding beauty and grandeur, it also has great significance because of its social, cultural, biological, anthropological and archeological attributes. The region also contains some of the largest uranium deposits in the world- a resource of great economic potential to Australia. 
The Alligator Rivers region encompasses a variety of landforms ranging from high plateau through lowlands and flood plains to tidal flats. The natural habitats contain a wealth of flora and fauna of great potential interest not only to 
Australians but all mankind. Nearly 1000 species of plants have been recorded in the region and there is an impressive abundance and diversity of animals. The large number of Aboriginal archeological and art sites bears witness to thousands of years of Aboriginal occupancy and the cultural significance of the region. Of particular concern are the Aboriginal paintings rated with the great palaeolithic an sites of France and Spain and the bushmen paintings of Africa. The prehistoric paintings are a priceless inheritance. 
The Ranger uranium environmental inquiry recognised the intrinsic value of the region, and central to its recommendations was the establishment of a major national park to safeguard these assets. The Commissioners saw this as the most effective way of minimising the impact of uranium mining on the physical, biological and cultural resources of the Alligator Rivers region. 
This Bill takes full account of the principal recommendations of the Ranger inquiry and the Government's decisions of August 1977. The need to ensure that conservation and resource use in the region are harmoniously blended has been uppermost in our minds in preparing legislation to establish Kakadu National Park. The most significant amendments relate to Aboriginal land and its use as a national park. The Northern Land Council, in evidence to the inquiry, suggested that land in the region which became Aboriginal land should be leased to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and be declared a national park under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975. The Ranger inquiry accepted this suggestion and recommended the Act be amended and the process of declaration be expedited. This Bill enables these recommendations to be implemented, with the Director entering into a long term lease agreement with Aboriginals. 
Clause 9 of the Bill ensures that the traditional Aboriginal land owners, through the appropriate Land Council, are fully consulted in the development and implementation of the plan of management for the park. Although major disagreements are not expected, provision is made to overcome any problems that may arise between the Land Council and the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. In resolving any differences the advice of appropriate Ministers will be sought. If necessary an impartial person will be appointed to advise on any issues arising in the implementation of the management plan. The management plan prepared by the Director and approved by Parliament will ensure environmental protection, and that appropriate management practices are employed, taking into account the interests of the traditional Aborigines owners. 
Aboriginals, with their long involvement with and concern for the natural environment, have a key role to play in park management. I envisage that opportunities for their employment in the park will increase as the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service develops training programs and other measures for Aboriginal advancement. 
The Ranger project area and the Pancontinental and Noranda lease areas will be excluded from the national park. The park will be declared in two stages. Stage 1 will become a national park immediately and will include all the land subject to Aboriginal land claims recommended by the inquiry. The second stage will be under special Commonwealth control prior to its declaration. Under the provisions of clause 6 of the Bill, a conservation zone will be established over this stage to ensure that the wildlife and natural features of the area are adequately protected and conserved pending its incorporation in the national park. 
The Bill enables the making of regulations to control and regulate such activities as mineral exploration and tourism within the conservation zone. Arrangements for mineral exploration of the conservation zone, for which my colleague the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  will have primary responsibility, are being developed. These will be pursued as a matter of urgency so that the addition of stage 2 to the national park may take place as quickly as possible. Every care will be taken to minimise environmental disturbance during the exploration phase. Developments in the conservation zone will be consistent with the concept of its future transfer to the national park. Ministers having particular responsibilities in the conservation zone will exercise these through special administrative arrangements and the Director will carry out his functions in accordance with these arrangements. In this way, integrated management of the whole area to be a national park will be facilitated. 
The Government decided that the mining town to serve mines developed in the region should be included in Kakadu National Park on land leased from the Director, and be subject to the plan of management. Town planning and development will therefore be integrated with that of the park as a whole. Appropriate amendments are included to provide for the preparation of a town plan which will specify details of zoned use, building standards, transportation, public recreation and essential services such as water, electricity and sewerage. 
Another recommendation of the Ranger inquiry accepted by the Government concerned the making available to the Director of information about activities affecting the park or future park areas. Clause 13 confers on the Director appropriate rights of inspection and access to information whilst respecting the confidentiality of information where necessary. My colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who represents in this chamber the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  will be introducing a Bill to confer jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, in relation to the enforcement by it of certain legal requirements for the protection of the environment in relation to uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers region, at the suit of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, or the appropriate Land Council. 
Clause 12 enables the Director, subject to the agreement of the Minister, to set and impose fees for entry to parks and for the use of services provided by the Director. Clause 15 extends the Director's powers of delegation so that he can delegate appropriate functions to persons, including Aboriginals or groups of Aboriginals, who would not be eligible under the delegation powers of the principal Act. This is a very important provision and will facilitate the involvement of Aboriginals in the practical management and protection of the park to be established on thenland. 
Section II of the principal Act deals with plans of management. The Ranger inquiry saw the plan of management for the park as being the principal means of co-ordinating management of the area to ensure that park development proceeds rationally. Within the national park, activities such as those of the Supervising Scientist will operate in accord with the plan of management. Honourable members will note that the definition of the region in this Bill differs from that contained in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill which I have already introduced. As defined in this Bill the region does not extend into the Arnhem Land Aboriginal reserve and does not include the Gimbat or Goodparla pastoral leases. 
In its second report the Ranger inquiry recommended that consideration be given to the resumption of Goodparla and all or part of Gimbat with a view to their incorporation in the park. The significance to the national park of these areas lies in their location in a land system poorly represented within the proposed boundaries and in the fact that they contain the upper reaches of major rivers, the protection of whose catchments is important for the proper conservation of the park. The Government accepted the inquiry's recommendation that Gimbat and Goodparla be considered for later addition to the park. 
A number of associated Bills are being introduced which result from the Government's uranium decisions. Certain provisions in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill, the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court ) Bill are related to this Bill. 
Declaration of the Kadadu National Park will be the culmination of efforts dating from 1965 when the Northern Territory Reserves Board recognised the national significance of the area and put forward a proposal to create a national park. Subsequently a wildlife sanctuary was established under the authority of the Department of the Northern Territory.  1  would like to pay tribute to the farsightedness of those authorities and people in the Territory and elsewhere who quite early recognised the great qualities of the area for conservation. I trust that the same interest and support will be available to the Commonwealth in its stewardship of the Kakadu National Park, through the co-operation of the Northern Territory Executive. The national park will be considerably larger than the existing wildlife sanctuary and the area proposed as a national park in 1965. The establishment of Kakadu National Park is indicative of this Government's concern for the natural environment and Aboriginal interests. 
Social problems arising from the influx of new people into the region and the desire of some Aboriginals to follow traditional life styles will need sensitive understanding. The preservation of Aboriginal paintings, the control of introduced animals such as the buffalo and the protection of endangered species will require detailed research. The integration of different uses such as conservation, scientific research, education, fishing, tourism and mining will be a complex but rewarding task. Highly skilled and innovative persons sensitive to the special requirements of the Aboriginal people and sensitive to the unique nature of the environment in the Alligator Rivers region will be needed to ensure the success of the Government's intentions in this field. New principles of management will have to be established and new standards set because the  situation in the Alligator Rivers region is unique not only in Australia but also in the world. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I am sure that all Australians can take pride in the fact that we will have a national park of world standard in the Northern Territory, as a result of decisions made by this Government. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to establish mechanisms for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects of nuclear activities in Australia. In the development of the provisions and procedures outlined in this Bill, the Government reviewed overseas regulatory mechanisms for their relevance to Australia. We noted particularly the very specialised nature of the nuclear industry, the likelihood of potential hazards involved in the nuclear fuel cycle and the limited extent of the nuclear industry in Australia at present. At the governmental level, we needed of course to take account of our federal system of government, with its division of powers between the Commonwealth and the States. After considering all these factors carefully, the Government decided to regulate and control nuclear activities in Australia by codes of practice and to legislate to enable such codes to be approved following consultation with the States and the 
Northern Territory, to be implemented through the laws of a State or Territory. 
I am sure honourable members agree that this legislation should command the support of all sections of the Australian community. It will enable governments to ensure that the nuclear industry in Australia is so regulated as to afford the utmost protection to the people and the environment. Australians now recognise the crucial role which energy supplies play in determining the prosperity and stability of societies throughout the world. Our forthcoming involvement in the mining, milling and transport of uranium requires that responsible governments should have appropriate protection strategies in force. 
A major provision of this Bill is clause 7, which requires that the Minister shall furnish proposed codes of practice, and proposed variations, to the appropriate Minister of each State. These shall also be furnished to the appropriate Minister of the Northern Territory, on or after 1 July 1978, in line with the constitutional development of the Territory. The Commonwealth Minister may make the proposed codes and proposed variations available for public comment. The clause further requires that opportunities are available for consultation between the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory in respect to the proposed code or proposed variation. Subject to this consultative process, the Bill provides at clause 8 that the Governor-General may, by order, approve codes of practice, and variations; he may also, by order, revoke such codes or variations. 
Clause 8 (3) outlines the matters which may be included in codes of practice developed under this legislation. They include standards to be observed, practices and procedures to be followed, and other measures, such as licensing and supervision, relating to nuclear activities. Their immediate application will be to regulate the running and milling of uranium in the Alligator Rivers region in the Northern Territory. The environmental conditions which each mining company in the region will be required to observe will provide for consistency with the relevant codes as they are promulgated, where comparable or more stringent requirements do not already exist in the conditions. 
I should emphasise that this legislation is concerned with the health and safety of people, and the environment, as distinct from safeguards, the purpose of which is to ensure that nuclear material in peaceful use is not diverted to nonpeaceful purposes or to nuclear weapons. It has already been explained to the House that as a result of Australia's adherence to the NonProliferation Treaty, Australia has undertaken certain safeguards obligations. We have established a national system of accounting for and controlling nuclear material as required by the Non-Proliferation Treaty and by our safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency. The domestic legislative base for giving effect to these obligations has been the Atomic Energy Act, and will continue to be that Act as amended. This applies also to the implementation of any obligations arising from bilateral safeguards agreements we enter into with other countries. For these reasons safeguards considerations will not be included in codes of practice to be developed under this Bill. Similarly, it is not intended that codes relating to the medical, industrial, and agricultural use of radio-isotopes will be developed under this Bill, as satisfactory arrangements already exist. 
Clause 9 of the Bill sets out the procedures for public notice to be given of orders made by the Governor-General, and for their scrutiny by both Houses of the Parliament. Part 4 of the Bill contains provisions relating to actions which the Commonwealth may take in respect to the implementation of the codes of practice. Honourable members will appreciate that the codes in themselves do not have the force of law. It is our expectation that their implementation will be through laws of the States and the Territories. Clause 11 authorises the making of regulations, to carry out, give effect to, or secure the observance of, the code in a State or Territory where, in the opinion of the Governor-General, the law of that State or Territory does not regulate or control nuclear activities in the manner prescribed in the code of practice. This regulation may be invoked only after a date prescribed in the order approving the code. Provision is made in clause 10 for the regulations to exclude or modify the application in Commonwealth places of State laws that give effect to a code. Should an unforeseen situation arise as a result of a nuclear activity, which is not regulated or controlled by a Commonwealth, State or Territory law, and which is likely to affect health, safety or the environment, the GovernorGeneral will have power, under clause 13 of the Bill, to authorise the appropriate Federal Minister to act to control hazards associated with the situation. 
The Government appreciates that the powers conferred on the Governor-General under this clause would need to be used with the utmost discretion. It is our hope and indeed our expectation that the provisions of the clause will never be invoked. However, it is our judgment, after considering all relevant factors, that a contingency provision of this nature is a proper and responsible discharge of our duty to provide for the health and safety of people in Australia, and the environment. Honourable members  will  note the constraints provided in the sub-clauses of clause 13. Any order made under this power expires at the end of three months, but this may be extended by a further three months, by order of the Governor-General. Orders made under the provisions of this clause have effect only in relation to situations likely to affect health and safety, or the environment, that arise from nuclear activities, as denned in the Bill. Finally, any authority vested in the Minister under this clause is subject to disallowance by the Parliament. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I do want to stress that the provisions of clause 13 apply only when no Commonwealth, State or Territory law exists to control a potentially hazardous situation arising from nuclear activity, as denned in this legislation. Honourable members will appreciate that some time could elapse before there is, in all the States and Territories, an appropriate body of laws developed under the procedures envisaged in this Bill. During this period, hazardous situations could be dealt with through actions authorised under clause 13. 
Generally, we would see the steps involved in arriving at approved codes of practice as including: 
Initial drafting by the appropriate Commonwealth department, for example, Department of Health for health codes, Department of Transport for transport codes, Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development for general environment protection codes; consultation  on  the proposed draft code with relevant State and Territory Ministers; the release, where appropriate, of the draft code for public comment, particularly by industry and trade unions; consideration of the draft code by relevant advisory councils such as the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council; final consideration within the Government and submission to the Governor-General; the provision of an order in writing by the Governor-General approving the code; tabling of the order approving the code of practice in both Houses of Parliament. 
Honourable members will see from this that the development of codes, which involves many interests, could well be a lengthy process. More time will elapse while the States and Territories establish the required implementing laws and procedures. 
I wish to mention now the action that the Government has already taken in respect to the involvement of the States and the Northern Territory in this legislation. In August 1977, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wrote to the State Premiers and recently I wrote to  Mr Everingham,  Majority Leader of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, inviting State and Territory officials to take part in developing codes of practice. The response has been positive to the need for these national codes. We will be following up on these matters with a view to advancing the development of codes and their related laws and regulations at the earliest possible time. 
In this context I am sure honourable members will be pleased to know that one important code of practice on radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores has already been prepared by the Commonwealth Department of Health in consultation with other Commonwealth and State authorities, industry and trade unions. It has received wide acceptance and is now already in the process of being brought into line with the provisions of this Bill. Other national codes of practice which will need to be given priority include the management of mining and milling wastes, and transport of yellow cake, in view of the Government's policies for uranium developments. 
In concluding I want to emphasise that this Bill is designed solely to protect Australians and their environment. It is responsible environmental legislation that will provide for the development of protection measures in respect to nuclear activities in Australia. Not to act to provide these measures would be irresponsible in the light of the Government's decision to proceed with uranium mining developments. Any suggestion that the codes and regulations to be enacted under this legislation would be arbitrary and repressive is refuted by the provisions in the Bill for development of the proposed codes of practice through consultative processes with the States, and for public comment. In a similar context, I draw the attention of honourable members to the role of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. This body of eminent non-government professional people has already played a most significant part in advising the Government on the effects of the various actual and potential sources of ionising radiation exposure on the Australian population and the environment. The Council will have a much wider responsibility as a consequence of the present proposals to advise me on the development of codes of practice, and I look forward confidently to a continuation of this very valuable relationship with the Government. 
In presenting this Bill the Government is honouring its undertakings to the Australian people and the governments of the States and Territories. This legislation demonstrates very clearly our determination to see that uranium development in Australia is regulated and controlled to ensure the protection of the environment and the health and safety of Australians. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on the motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $1,200, (b) $15,400, (c) $63,500 and (d) $141,405. 
(a) Recruitment $1,200, (b) Local Government $3,100, recruitment $300, Ranger Inquiry $2,300, Fraser Island Inquiry $5,500, general $4,200 (c) Home Savings Grant $34,800, promotion of TV co-production with the ABC $9,800, recruitment $6,000, Ranger Inquiry $10,500, general $2,400 (d) Home Savings Grant $1,800, World Environment Day $500, Office of Youth Affairs $800, Housing Allowance Experiment Scheme $200, Sporting Bodies application for grants $2,300, recruitment $ 1 8,000, Housing Costs Inquiry $12, 100, Life. Be In it. $ 105,705 (see (7)). 
Information Services, Incidentals, Housing Costs Inquiry, Environmental Impact Statements, National Fitness Program. 
The Australian Government Advertising Service. Monahan, Dayman, Adams Pry Ltd, Victoria (for Life. Be In It.). 
) As above. For Life. Be In It-$ 12,500 to date. Estimate for 1977-78 $30,000. 
Selection was made by the AGAS. Selection of Monahan, Dayman, Adams Pty Ltd, the agency for the Victorian Life. Be In It campaign, was recommended by the AGAS and agreed to by the Recreation Ministers ' Council. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) None 
and (3) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is aware of the problem of desertification of Australia's arid zone. In 1977 Australia was a significant participant at the U.N. Conference on Desertification. The World Plan of Action adopted by the Conference is currently being evaluated for policy implications. 
Problems of land degradation and loss of productive capacity are being examined in the context of the Commonwealth State Collaborative Soil Conservation Study. The objective of the Study is to provide Governments with a source of information for the formulation of policy on financial and other matters relating to long term soil conservation and associated land and water management programs. The Commonwealth since 1974-73 has provided financial assistance to the States for soil conservation, and is providing $200,000 in 1977-78 as further interim assistance pending consideration of the Study recommendations. 
The Government has not supported the Rathburnie Environmental Education Estate at Linville in the Brisbane Valley, however, under the States Grants (Soil Conservation) Act 1974 and the Environment (Financial Assistance) Act 1977 the following projects aimed at demonstrating the long-term commercial viability of land and environment conservation practices have been supported: demonstration catchment, Pisant Creek, South Australia demonstration project- pitting of denuded pastoral and marginal land, South Australia demonstration erosion and reclamation control project in cereal growing districts of Western Australia demonstration of a method of sand-trapping and dune rebuilding, Western Australia. 
The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no consultations, at any level, between the Commonwealth Department responsible for sport and recreation and Sport and Recreation Departments in the States on the matter of compensation for persons incapacitated as the result of recreational activity. 
I had discussions only yesterday with a delegation from Queensland which was concerned about this particular project. The day before I had had the good fortune to discuss this project with the Premier of Queensland and he expressed certain points of view. I understand that an environmental impact statement has been prepared by the Queensland Government. As well, I have directed, under Commonwealth legislation, that a Commonwealth environmental impact statement be prepared. I am now waiting for a report from my officers on the Commonwealth statement. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill resumes, I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978, as they are associated measures. Of course questions will be put separately on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matters of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Government does not see any real sense in the amendment proposed to clause 6. Sub-clause (1) of the circulated amendment is identical with clause 6 in the Bill, but sub-clauses (2) to (5) are really suggesting the new concept that all of the recommendations for action should be in writing. The Government believes that would certainly inhibit the activities of the Supervising Scientist. What is meant by recommendations for action? It could result in the Supervising Scientist not being able to carry out many of the functions that he will be required to carry out. 
Further, the proposed amendment is in breach of the usual principle that advice to Ministers in matters of this son is confidential. The procedure required by the amendment would be administratively cumbersome. In any event, I think Opposition members recognise that an important part of the legislation is that it makes provision for a report to Parliament. This will enable honourable members to look carefully at the operations of the Supervising Scientist on behalf of the people they represent. For ariose reasons the amendment is unacceptable. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 17- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
The Minister shall cause to be prepared and kept a list setting out the name of each Department, authority, incorporated company or other body that in his opinion has un interest in uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region and- 
the Minister shall request each Department, authority, incorporated company or other body the name of which is included in the list to nominate, in writing, not more than 2 persons for appointment to the Committee: and 
if a person is, or persons are, nominated in accordance with such a request- the Minister s.u.li appoint that person, or at least one of those persons, a . member of the Committee in accordance with paragraph ). 
I think a couple of points ought to be made in relation to this issue. Firstly, as honourable members opposite must recognise, there is real danger in specifying bodies and organisations which should be represented on the co-ordinating committee. Are honourable members opposite suggesting that it has proposed a complete list of all the bodies which might possibly nominate members and which should be represented on the co-ordinating committee? 
The honourable member says that there might be more. I think it is important that the Minister should be given flexibility in determining which bodies are responsible and which bodies should be included on the coordinating committee. Obviously one would imagine that some, if not all, of the bodies mentioned would be included on this committee. 
The other point which I think is relevant is related to the creation of the Uranium Advisory Council. Perhaps one or two of the bodies mentioned might be the sorts of organisations which could be included on that sort of body as well. The role of the co-ordinating committee will be very much one of administration and dealing with technical matters. So community based organisations such as those proposed could be included on the Advisory Council. We do not see any merit in the amendment moved by the Opposition. The Government opposes it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 19 to 30- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 31 (Secrecy). 
The Government believes that clause 3 1 should remain in the legislation, for obvious reasons. It is typical of the sort of provision contained in legislation of this kind which relates to officials who under legislation are given responsibilities and the opportunity to obtain confidential information, not only of a commercial kind but also of a personal kind. It is a matter for the Government, if it is felt necessary, to disclose this sort of information, if that is desirable in given circumstances, which might be received from official sources. I do not know whether honourable members opposite would suggest that those involved- the supervising scientist and others- who have the right to get information of all kinds under the legislation should not at the same time have an obligation to ensure that that information is used only for proper purposes and should not be bound by proper rules of secrecy. There is nothing unusual about this provision. Therefore we believe it should remain. 
If the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  examines the particular clauses in the Bill which are relevant to the question of obtaining information- I refer in particular to clause 27- he will find that the supervising scientist is given extraordinarily wide powers, which I think the Government would concede, to obtain information and that very limited opportunity is given to a person to refuse to supply that information. A person who does not comply with a notice which is served upon him under that clause is subject to substantial penalties. We believe it is essential for the supervising scientist to have such powers to carry out his job effectively. Similarly, under clause 29 he is given very wide powers to gain access to buildings. That clause reads in part:   to full and free access to all buildings and places in the Alligator Rivers Region for the purpose of the performance of his functions . . . 
Again the powers are very wide and very significant. If a sensible comparison were made between this legislation and other legislation, it would be recognised - 
-The sort of legislation that has been mentioned. If that comparison were made it would be recognised that there is a very real need for such secrecy provisions. We believe they should remain in the legislation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This paragraph enables a park or reserve to be declared over Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory and leased to the Director. This course has been agreed to by the traditional land owners in the Northern Territory. The deletion of this paragraph would mean that the proposed Kakadu National Park could not be declared in accordance with the methods which so far have formed the basis of all negotiations with the Northern Land Council. The proposed lease would have to be directly between the Commonwealth and the relevant land trusts and would not involve the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. If the Opposition's proposed amendment were agreed to it would involve substantial redrafting of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill. It would mean further negotiations with the Northern Land Council and that Council might not necessarily agree in those circumstances to the lease to the Commonwealth. For those reasons, we oppose this proposed amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
The proposed amendment, if adopted, would require the Director to relinquish to the Commonwealth any interest held by him in land in a park within the region for the purpose of Part II of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. This requirement would apply even if no land rights claim were made. The Director's interest granted by the Aboriginal land trusts could be affected also, even though the land was already vested in those land trusts. The Director is subject to ministerial direction. If a land rights claim were upheld and the Director refused to surrender his interest in land within a park the Minister could use the power of direction which he has under the Act. The amendment is therefore unnecessary and could have unfortunate and unintended results. We oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Section 1 1 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraph (c) of sub-section (2) and substituting the following paragraph and words: 
specify an address to which such representations may be forwarded, and, in the case of a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, shall serve a copy of the notice on the relevant  Chairman.  '; 
by omitting from sub-section (6) 'detailed' (first occurring) and substituting 'general'; 
by omitting sub-section (14) and substituting the following sub-sections: (13a) Where, under paragraph (13) (b), the Minister refers to the Director a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, he shall cause a copy of the suggestions referred to in that paragraph to be served on the relevant  Chairman,  and the  Chairman  may, within the period of 1 4 days after receiving the copy of the suggestions, make representations to the Director in connexion with the suggestions. 
Where the plan of management has been referred to the Director under sub-section ( 1 3), he shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of the plan, or, in a case to which sub-section ( 13a) applies, after the expiration of the period referred to in that sub-section, give further consideration to the plan, having regard to the suggestions of the Minister and any representations received under sub-section (13a), and again submit the plan, with or without alterations, to the Minister, together with- 
a ) his comments on the suggestions of the Minister; and 
a copy of any representations received under sub-section ( ' 3a), together with his comments on those representations.'; 
by inserting in sub-section ( 16) 'and, in a case to which sub-section (13a) applies, by the relevant Chair.man' after' Director' and 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: 
17) In this section- "prescribed area" means an area wholly or partly within the Region, being an area for which an Aboriginal Land Council has been established under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976; "relevant  Chairman",  in relation to a prescribed area, means the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Council for the area; "traditional Aboriginal owners" has the same meaning as in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976'. 
I move the following amendments: 
In paragraph (b), omit 'and substituting "general" '. Omit paragraphs (g), (h) and (j), substitute the following word and paragraph: and (g) by omitting sub-sections ( 13) to ( 16) (inclusive ) and substituting the following sub-sections: "( 13) Subject to sub-section (20)- 
in a case where the Minister is satisfied that, in relation to a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, there is a substantial difference of opinion between the relevant Chairman and the Director, the Minister shall refer the plan to the Director, together with his suggestions, for further consideration; or 
b) in any other case, the Minister may- 
accept the plan of management as submitted under sub-section ( 12); or 
refer it to the Director, together with his suggestions, for further consideration. "(14) Where, under sub-section ( 13), the Minister refers to the Director the plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, he shall cause a copy of his suggestions referred to the Director with the plan to be served on the relevant 

 Chairman, and the  Chairman  may, within the period of 14 days after receiving a copy of the suggestions, make representations to the Director in connexion with the suggestions. "(15) Where the plan of management has been referred to the Director under sub-section (13), the Director shall, as soon as practicable after receipt of the plan or, in a case to which sub-section ( 14) applies, after the expiration of the period referred to in that sub-section, give further consideration to the plan, having regard to the suggestions of the Minister and any representations received under sub-section (14), and again submit the plan, with or without alterations, to the Minister, together with- 
a ) his comments on the suggestions of the Minister: and 
a copy of any representations received under sub-section ( 14), together with his comments on those representations. "(16) Where, under sub-section (15), the Director submits a plan of management, with or without alterations, to the Minister and the plan is in respect of a park or reserve wholly or partly within a prescribed area, the Director shall, not later than the date on which the plan is so submitted to the Minister, serve on the relevant  Chairman  copies of the plan and of any comments and representations submitted to the Minister under sub-section (15), and the  Chairman  may, within the period of 14 days after receiving the copies, submit to the Minister representations in connexion with the plan. "(17) Where the Minister receives representations under sub-section (16) and he is satisfied that there is a substantial difference of opinion between the relevant  Chairman  and the Director in relation to the plan of management, the Minister may appoint a person (being a person whom the Minister considers to be suitably qualified and in a position to deal with the matter impartially) to inquire into the matter. "(18) A person appointed under sub-section (17) shall inquire into the matter and submit a report, together with his recommendations, to the Minister. "( 19) Subject to sub-section (20), as soon as practicable after the plan of management is submitted to the Minister under sub-section ( 1 5 ) or, in a case to which sub-section (16) applies, after the expiration of the period referred to in that sub-section, the Minister shall accept the plan as so submitted or, if he is of the opinion that the plan as so submitted should be altered, the plan as so submitted and altered by him in such manner as he thinks fit. "(20 ) The Minister shall not take any action- 
under sub-section ( 13)- except after giving due consideration to any representations or comments submitted to him under sub-section (12); or 
under sub-section ( 19)- except after giving due consideration to any representations or comments submitted to him under sub-section (15) or ( 16), and to any report and recommendations submitted to him under sub-section (18). "(21) When a plan of management is laid before both Houses of Parliament under section 12, the Minister shall cause the plan to be accompanied by- 
copies of any representations and comments, and of any report and recommendations, submitted to him under this section in connexion with the plan, other than those that have been given effect to in the plan; and 
in a case where he has made alterations to the plan under sub-section ( 19)- a report specifying the alterations and setting out any views expressed by the Director, and, in the case of a plan of management in respect of a park or reserve wholly or pardy within a prescribed area, by the relevant  Chairman,  in respect of matters to which the alterations relate. "(22) In this section- prescribed area' means an area wholly or pardy within the Region, being an area for which an Aboriginal Land Council has been established under the Aboriginal Lands Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976; relevant  Chairman',  in relation to a prescribed area, means the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Council for the area; traditional Aboriginal owners' has the same meaning as in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976".'. 
The purpose of these amendments is to make specific provision to ensure that Aboriginal interests are fully taken into account in the preparation and approval of a plan of management for the proposed Kakadu National Park. Proposed sub-sections (13) and (14) of section 1 1 of the principal Act provide that in the event of a substantial difference of opinion in relation to a plan of management between the  chairman  of the relevant land council and the Director the Minister shall, firstly, refer the plan to the Director with his suggestions for further consideration and, also, provide the  chairman  with a copy of those suggestions. The  chairman  may make representations to the Director in respect of those suggestions. Under proposed sub-section (15) the Director is required to give further consideration to the plan and to submit it again to the Minister with his comments and any representations received from the  chairman.  The Director is further required under proposed sub-section (16) to send copies of the plan and of any associated comments and representations to the  chairman  who, in turn, may make further representations to the Minister. 
In the unlikely event that a substantial difference of opinion still remains between the relevant chairman and the Director in relation to a plan of management, sub-section (17) will empower the Minister to appoint a suitably qualified person to inquire into the matter and submit a report, with his recommendations, to the Minister. Proposed sub-sections (19) and (20) relate to the procedures through which the Minister shall accept the plan of management. Proposed sub-section (21) requires the plan of management to be laid before both Houses of Parliament and to be accompanied by, firstly, copies of representations, comments, reports and recommendations submitted to the Minister other than those that have been given effect to in the plan and, secondly, a report specifying the alterations to the plan by the Minister and any views expressed by the Director and, in the case of a plan of management dealing with Aboriginal land, any views of the relevant chairman in respect of the alterations. Honourable members will appreciate that we are dealing with procedures for the establishment of management policies and arrangements for the use of land to which Aborigines will hold title. The Government believes it is essential that every reasonable opportunity should be given for Aboriginal views in respect of that land to be considered and, if reasonable, incorporated in the plan of management for that land. 
I move: 
In proposed section 14(2), omit all the words after shall' down to the end of proposed sub-section (2), substitute- appoint a person (being a person whom he considers to be suitably qualified and in a position to deal with the matter impartially) to inquire into the matter'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Government opposes the amendment moved by the Opposition. The Government believes the amendment would restrict unduly the powers given to the Minister. It is possible that the Minister may wish to go beyond the strict requirements of the plan to ensure equity and fairness to people concerned in a particular matter. Ministerial responsibility to Parliament would, on the other hand, ensure that the Minister would not give directions which fail to ensure the observance of the minimum standards of the plan and would not abuse his discretion by going too far in the other direction. The Minister's power will not affect any legal remedies against the Director to ensure compliance with his statutory duty. For those reasons the Government opposes this amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 and 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
After section 17 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 17a.(1) . . . 
It is reasonable excuse for a person to fail to furnish information or a document that he is required to furnish under this section if the furnishing of the information, or the document, may tend to incriminate him. 17c.(l) . . . 
The Court shall not, under this section, require a person to furnish information or a document if the Court is satisfied that compliance with a requirement to furnish that information or document might tend to incriminate that person. 
The Government opposes the suggested amendment which really is proposing omission of a provision in the legislation dealing with self-incrimination. The provision as it stands is, we believe, consistent with proper legal principles for the protection of the rights of citizens and is similar to other provisions in legislation covering offences of this kind. Therefore, the Government opposes the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 14 and 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Contracts and leases). 
The action suggested by the Opposition would remove the requirement for ministerial approval of contracts involving a lease of Aboriginal land. The advice received by the Government is that the Opposition's proposal is unnecessary because the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill will require the relevant Aboriginal land trusts in the region to enter into leases with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. We believe that it would be totally improper for the land trusts to be placed in a position of being required to grant a lease to the Director if he could be prevented from entering into the agreement by the lack of ministerial consent. Proposed sub-section 21(2) merely ensures that both parties are required and have adequate power to enter into the proposed lease agreement. The Opposition's move is opposed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I respond by saying that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  will just have to show some patience. When we reach the consideration of clauses 1 1 and 13,1 will explain it fully. 
I make one or two brief comments at this time. There seems to be a suggestion in what has been said so far that a lot of people were caught by surprise by the form of this legislation. I reiterate the point made by colleagues on my side that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did make a statement in August of last year which clearly indicated almost the precise form that this legislation would take. I refer honourable members to bis speech, and in particular to the comments made by the Prime Minister in the House under the heading 'Mining and Milling'. He said at that time: 
There shall be a uniform Australian code covering the mining and milling of uranium. The code will be mandatory and implemented progressively by legislation together with the States and territories, commencing with the Code of Practice on radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores which has already been prepared and published by the Department of Health. The Code of Practice will be prescribed by Commonwealth legislation, but where State or Territory legislation has an equal or more stringent code, the Commonwealth legislation will be held in reserve and the administration of the code will be left entirely in the hands of that State or Territory. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  is concerned about consultation. I suggest that the important question is consultation in relation to the preparation of codes. We are talking about the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, and it is the preparation of the codes provided for in that Bill that is important. If honourable members look at the Bill in its present form, and in particular at clauses 7 and 8, they will see provisions requiring consultation with the States. 
-That is a proper method of consultation - 
. . . because we are now in the situation where the codes have to be prepared, and they must be prepared in consultation with the States. That requirement was always in the Bill. It was always in the mind of the Government. That is what this Bill is all about. The preparation of the Codes of Practice is the operative part of it. That is why it is called the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. I do not know whether the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has read clauses 7 and 8. 
If the honourable gentleman looks at them, he will see important provisions that do require consultation. There will be consultation. He raises the question of the application of the legislation to States and Territories and says he thinks it is wrong that it should perhaps apply to the Territories and not to the States at this stage. He wants it removed in toto. 
That seems to be the suggestion. Some considerations must be borne in mind: For example, the development of the uranium industry in the Northern Territory and the need for the Government to be concerned about the health and welfare of the workers in the field. That is why it is important - 
I wish to make one or two comments in response to the remarks made by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  They have failed to understand the point I was endeavouring to make earlier, and that is that it has to be realised that this is a vehicle for codes of practice, and it is the consultation on the Codes which is important. I wish to refer very briefly to a letter sent by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Premiers in August 1977. 1 think it explains the situation very well. I think it provides a clearer understanding of this question of consultation, because it is the consultation in the preparation of the Codes- the operative part of the legislationwhich is important. The Prime Minister said in that letter 
The Ranger Inquiry recommended that the existing element of the Code referred to above - 
That is referring to the Code that had been established- should be made mandatory by legislation. My Government has decided to accept this recommendation but to go further and, together with the States, to establish by legislation a uniform national Code which covers all aspects of mining and milling of uranium as well as any future nuclear activities. 
This next part is important: 
I recognise the contribution which State authorities have already made in this field and believe that it is essential that this task of developing further elements of the Code take place as a joint exercise and to this I invite participation in this work by officials of your State. 
So the joint exercise was concerned, is concerned, and will be concerned with the preparation of the Codes. That is important. 
No. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Object of Act). 
The Government opposes the amendment. Clause 7 of the Bill ensures consultation with the States and the Northern Territory and enables public comment to be sought. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause, insert the following sub-clause: 
10) Until such date as is fixed by Proclamation for the purposes of this sub-section, regulations shall not be made in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, a code of practice in any State.' 
I have some comments to make in relation to both this clause and clause 13. To save repetition, I seek leave to refer to clause 13 now. 
Leave granted. 
-The purpose of the amendment to clauses 11 and 13 of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill is to postpone the application of those clauses to the States until a date to be proclaimed. The amendments are proposed following receipt by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of expressions of concern from some States about the effect of the Bill on existing State legislative and administrative arrangements. The Government believes it proper that any view expressed by a State must be given due consideration, particularly as the nature of this Bill represents a new concept in CommonwealthState legislative arrangements. It should be noted that prior to the introduction of the Bill the States had been advised of the nature of the Bill. 
Honourable members will recall that on 25 August 1977 the Prime Minister stated, and I repeat something said earlier 
There will be a uniform Australian code covering mining and milling of uranium. The code will be mandatory and implemented progressively by legislation together with the States and territories, commencing with the Code of Practice on radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores which has already been prepared and published by the Depanment of Health. The Code of Practice will be prescribed by Commonwealth legislation but where State or Territory legislation has an equal or more stringent code, the Commonwealth legislation will be held in reserve and the administration of the code will be left entirely in the hands of that State or Territory. 
The mechanism provided for in the Bill will give effect to the matters announced then by the Prime Minister. 
It is important that the uranium legislation be passed as soon as possible if development of the Ranger uranium deposits is to proceed this dry season. Early passage of the legislation is important also in the context of the Commonwealth's negotiations with the Northern Land Council on aspects of the development of the Ranger deposit. For these reasons it is considered that the Bill should not be delayed in its passage through the Parliament, which was suggested by some States. However, because particular concern has been expressed about aspects of this Bill, as I have said, it is proposed to delay the application of clauses 1 1 and 13 of the Bill in relation to the States until there has been an opportunity for a further exchange of views between the Commonwealth and the States on the Bill. 
I want to make a very brief comment. I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bo wen)  has misinterpreted some of the provisions of the clause in his comments. If the Governor-General is satisfied on a subjective test that these conditions exist he may authorise a Minister to give directions and orders, and then the matter can come before a court. The question of an offence is the question of a breach of an order made. That is a matter for evidence. The honourable member said that there is no chance to give evidence. Of course there is a chance to give evidence. 
-Yes there is. It would be an offence if there were a breach. It would be an offence to be dealt with in a court of summary jurisdiction. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
After clause 1 2, insert the following new clause:  12a. Section 46 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) all the words after "Commonwealth, as the case may be," (second occurring) and substituting " for the purposes of sub-section 43 (2) or 44 (2), as the case may be".'. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 26- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Schedule 1. 
I move: 
) Omit all the words of the description of land set out under the heading 'ALLIGATOR RIVERS (NO. 2)', substitute- 
All that piece of land in the Northern Territory of Australia containing an area of 390 square kilometres more or less and bounded by a line commencing at the northwestern corner of Pastoral Lease 739 (Mudginberri); thence southerly by part of the western boundary of the said Pastoral Lease to the north-eastern corner of Pastoral Lease 737 (Munmarlary); thence northwesterly by a line from the said corner of the said Pastoral Lease to the intersection of the parallel of south latitude 12 degrees5 minutes 30 seconds with the meridian of east longitude 132 degrees 33 minutes 28 seconds; thence nonhwesterly by the nonhwesterly prolongation of the said line to its intersection with the sea-coast of Van Diemen Gulf at Point Farewell; thence by the said sea-coast and the left bank of the East Alligator River to its intersection with the northern boundary of Pastoral Lease 739 (Mudginberri); thence westerly by the northern boundary of the said Pastoral Lease to the point of commencement. '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Schedule 1, as amended, agreed to. 
I move: 
Insert 'Firstly,' before 'All', being the first word in the description of land set out under the heading 'ALLIGATOR RIVERS AREA (NO. 3)'. 
Omit-  thence northeasterly by a line to the southwestern corner of Reserve No. 1227 (Woolwonga Aboriginal Reserve) as notified in Commonwealth of Australia Gazette No. 60 of 4 July 1968; thence generally northerly and easterly by the western and northern boundaries of the said Reserve to the northeastern corner of the said Reserve; thence easterly by part of the southern boundary of Pastoral Lease 739 (Mudginberri) to its intersection with the meridian of east longitude 1 32 degrees53 minutes; ' insert- thence northeasterly by a line to the intersection of the right bank of the South Alligator River with the westerly prolongation of a surveyed line as shown on Survey Plan A.913 lodged with the Surveyor-General for the Northern Territory; thence generally northerly by the right bank of the South Alligator River to the southwestern corner of Pastoral Lease 737 (Munmarlary); thence easterly by the southern boundary of the said Pastoral Lease and part of the southern boundary of Pastoral Lease 739 (Mudginberri) to the meridian of east longitude 132 degrees S3 minutes; '. 
Add at the end thereof- 
Secondly, all that piece of land in the Northern Territory of Australia containing an area of 324 square kilometres more or less bounded by lines described as follows: Commencing at the most eastern northeastern corner of Pastoral Lease 668 (Gimbat); thence westerly and northerly by northern and eastern boundaries of the said Pastoral Lease to the most northern northeastern corner of the said Pastoral Lease; thence easterly by the easterly prolongation of the most northern boundary of Pastoral Lease 668 (Gimbat) to its intersection with the meridian of east longitude 133 degrees; thence south to the point of commencement.'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Schedule 2, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
The Government has considered the five amendments moved by the Opposition. It opposes all of them. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (i) Head Office: (a) five, (b) one. (ii) Other offices: (a) nil, (b) nil. 
(i) $38,101, (ii) nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The major component of the review directed by the Government of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act is concerned with the role of the Act in relation to State environmental responsibilities. Co-operative arrangements for the environmental assessment of proposals for which a State and the Commonwealth each have some responsibility have been made at 'environment' Minister level with Western Australia, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia. The New South Wales Minister has agreed that procedural guidelines are necessary in order to avoid overlap between the respective New South Wales and Commonwealth agencies but these have not yet been negotiated. Discussions with the five States have indicated a widespread acceptance of the Commonwealth's responsibilities in environmental assessment. 
No, but there will be consultations with all appropriate Departments. 
The Queensland Government has not agreed to any detailed arrangements, as proposed by the Commonwealth Government in environmental assessment. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. It is true that the Commonwealth has announced the grant he mentioned. We believe it was a substantial grant, very much greater than the previous grants that have been made by any Commonwealth government to any Commonwealth Games team. 
The honourable member mentions the word 'percentage'. However, if the honourable member looks at the amount paid per team member he will see that the grant of $225,000 that we announced is equivalent to $1,120 per team member. The per capita grant for the 1974 Games in Christchurch was $173. So, we are looking at $1,120 compared with $173. From that comparison honourable members can see the significant increase in the amount of support that we are providing to our Commonwealth Games team. I know that the honourable member is upset about this matter but the fact is that the grant was very well received by the Games Association and by individual sporting bodies throughout Australia, and they said so publicly. They were very pleased about the pre-Games training fund of $75,000 which we provided and this again was an initiative by the present Government. We certainly hope that companies and individuals around Australia will provide further support to the team to back up the amount that the Federal Government has provided. We want to see the Games team get to Edmonton well prepared and well-equipped. We trust that it will be successful. I am sure it will be. 
-The honourable member should be concerned not so much about the Department 's views but about the Government's views. That is a point worth noting. I am aware of reports on this subject. As the honourable member would know, the royal commission into drilling for petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef did not actually reach a unanimous view on this important issue in its 1974 report. This is a subject on which the Government will probably at some stage have to determine a policy although, frankly, I am not aware at this stage of any oil company or other commercial body seeking approval to proceed with drilling in the region of the Great Barrier Reef. 
I am not willing at this stage to indicate just what the approach of the Government might be if a decision has to be made in due course. However, I stress that the Government certainly would not allow to take place in the area of the Great Barrier Reef any commercial activity which might in any sense cause harm to this unique asset. Of course, in any decision that might be made there would have to be consultation with the Queensland Government. Another point which might be worth noting is that, quite apart from the fact that no policy stance has been taken on this matter at this stage, there is the added protection of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, which is very relevant to this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No, however, the following information is considered relevant to the question: 
All forms of development on coastal dunes can effect erosion. On the other hand, damage caused by coastal erosion is likely to be greater in areas of high rise development; 
Under the National Estate Program the Government has provided financial assistance to the Queensland Department of Harbours and Marine for a study of coastal erosion; 
The Commonwealth and State Governments Collaborative Soil Conservation Study 1975-77 encompasses questions of coastal erosion. Consideration of the Study recommendations is likely in the near future; 
It is understood that the Australian Science and Technology Council (ASTEC) will be making recommendations on coastal and ocean engineering as part of its Overview Report on Science and Technology in Australia, 1977. The report is expected later this year. 
See(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. The Department of Transport has prime responsibility for dealing with oil spills from ships and my Department provides advice on environmental aspects. My Department has sought information on the action taken by the British and French Governments to deal with the oil spill and pollution of the coastline in cooperation with the Department of Transport. 
Yes. Consideration was given to sending an expert to investigate the handling of the disaster. However, due to the costs involved it was decided to rely on the official reports and information from other sources for the evaluation of the effects of the oil pollution and the actions taken to deal with it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill reflects the Government's firm view that the housing of Australians is an issue of national concern. It conforms with our basic policy objectives to ensure that every household in Australia is able to obtain adequate housing within its capacity to pay; to encourage home ownership across the widest possible range of income groups, concentrating Federal assistance in areas of greatest need; to maintain and improve housing styles and seek the most effective use of the available housing stock; to encourage research and innovation and, in co-operation with the States, to develop imaginative housing programs for the underprivileged and disadvantaged; and to ensure that there are economic conditions within which a stable and adequate building industry can assist us to achieve our social goals. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to enter into a three year Agreement with the States to give low and moderate income earners increased opportunities for home ownership and to continue to advance the States low interest funds for rental assistance. It also provides for new pensioner housing arrangements which improve on the existing dwellings for pensioners scheme. Clearly the Commonwealth Government alone cannot guarantee the achievement of national housing goals. Accordingly I and my predecessor have met State Ministers on several occasions over the last two years to devise jointly the Agreement that is now before the House. The strong support which the principles of the Agreement have received throughout the community results from early and continuing discussion and co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. There has been widespread support for the extension of home ownership, for tailoring assistance to need, and for the flexibility which will allow the States to design programs to meet their own particular needs. These principles are detailed at the outset of the Agreement. 
Clauses 8 to 13 provide for the Commonwealth to make advances at highly concessional rates of interest. Advances for the home purchase program will attract interest at 4.5 per cent per annum and for rental housing at 5 per cent per annum. In relation to the long-term bond rate this represents an effective subsidy of 4.7 per cent and 4.2 per cent respectively. All advances are repayable over 53 years as in the past. In the 1973-74 Agreement, the interest rate was 4.5 per cent per annum for home purchase and 4 per cent per annum for rental, compared to the longterm bond rate of 6 per cent when that Agreement came into effect. Compared to 1973 we have effectively more than doubled the interest concession for home ownership funds and nearly doubled the concession for rental funds. 
As with the 1973-74 Agreement, the amount of advances to be made each year to each State will be determined by the Commonwealth following consideration of State requirements. The restriction on States that only 30 per cent of the funds provided can be used for home ownership is removed. By 1980 at least 40 per cent must go to home ownership and there is no maximum. Clauses 22 to 28 deal with home purchase assistance. Their implementation will result over time in substantial surpluses to be used for further home loans. To ensure that the maximum number of people can be assisted in the most sensitive way, these clauses allow the States great flexibility in determining the uses to which funds can be put and the agencies which will administer them. In marked contrast to the Commonwealth-imposed means test in the 1973 Agreement, each State will now be able to determine the conditions of eligibility for home purchase assistance. Loans are to made only to people unable to obtain or to afford mortgage finance in the open market. The individual circumstances such as family income, assets and standard of the home will be taken into account. 
We are concerned to see that home owners have low repayments when their costs are highest, usually in the early years of the loan. Ar- 
with lending agencies are designed to ensure this and to provide in general for repayments to increase as ability to meet them improves. Agencies are encouraged to adopt flexible mortgage conditions such as income related starts with later repayments based on escalating interest rates, deferred interest repayment loans, loans where repayments are geared to income for the whole term of the loan, and loans for which repayments start at a high level and then taper off. There innovations should be of great interest to private lenders. I believe they will lead to increased availability of flexible mortgage conditions for home purchasers generally in our community. 
Clause 20 facilitates and encourages tenants of State housing authorities to purchase their houses. The new Agreement contains no limit on the number of dwellings which may be sold. The restriction on sale of dwellings provided under the 1973-74 Agreement of 30 per cent has been abolished. All sales are to be at market value or replacement cost and on the basis of a cash transaction to the housing authority. Purchasers of public housing will have access to loans from the home purchase program where they are unable to raise finance in the private market. These provisions will result in equal treatment between those purchasing privately and public housing tenants buying publicly-owned dwellings. Sales at market value or replacement cost will enable other houses to be provided to replace those which are sold. 
Clauses 14 to 19 deal with rental assistance. As with the home ownership provisions, they allow the States great flexibility in determining the uses to which funds can be put and the agencies which administer them. Commonwealthimposed specific needs tests for rental housing are to be discontinued and States will be free to determine their own eligibility criteria provided assistance is directed to those in need. There is evidence to suggest that some people on high incomes pay subsidised rent. Such people would have needed assistance when they first entered public housing but are now able to pay their way. States have agreed to move towards relating ceiling rents to market rents. This agreement applies to all dwellings built under this or earlier arrangements. Rent rebate systems will continue to apply, so that those unable to meet the ceiling rent for their dwellings will pay a rent geared to their income and other family circumstances. Rent will be related to income unless and until the ceiling rent is reached. Any increase in rents will be gradual and State and Federal Government will work together to ensure that hardship does not result. This rental policy and the determination to avoid hardship flow from our concern that not all of the seriously disadvantaged are accommodated in public sector housing. There are many in need of assistance because of age, sickness, or some physical or mental disability. The Government provides these people with social, health and other services and it also looks to meet their housing needs. 
Clauses 11 to 14 of the Bill introduce new arrangements for pensioner housing. These arrangements continue grants to the States, remove restrictions on how the funds may be used and make assistance available to more people. Groups who will be helped are listed in clause 1 1. They include persons in receipt of an age or invalid pension, a supporting parent's benefit, a special benefit, a sheltered employment allowance, a training allowance in special circumstances, and some classes of service pensions. Unlike the previous legislation the Bill allows States to assist married as well as single pensioners. 
The Agreement and the pensioner scheme introduced today will be welcomed as major additions to national housing policy and illustrate what can be achieved by governments working together to meet national objectives. The provision in clause 1 5 of the Bill for a comprehensive annual report on these programs will provide an opportunity for regular review of their effectiveness. The clear statement of agreed objectives to apply to the provision of housing assistance makes the 1978 Housing Agreement an important social document. I have no doubt that it will be seen as the best Agreement yet negotiated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 60 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Great Barrier 
Reef Marine Park Authority for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The net reduction estimated at the time of the Budget is more than accounted for by the run-down in expenditure on housing by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and the functional re-classification for budget purposes of some other expenditure on housing in the Northern Territory. Expenditure on housing that is financed from the allocation in 1 977-78 to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is accounted for under the General Public Services function rather than the Housing function. 
I respond briefly to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Perhaps beforehand I should make a couple of general comments on the debate so far because I have not previously had the opportunity to do so, mainly because of the commitment I had to attend a Ministers' conference on Friday. I wish to associate myself with the remarks made earlier by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  when he paid the most sincere tribute to the late Alex Ramsay for his remarkable contribution to housing in Australia. I also wish to associate my Department with those remarks.  Mr Ramsay  was certainly a man with a great expertise in the area of housing. He was also a man of great integrity. I know that he will be very sadly missed by honourable members and also by many members within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I also make the general comment that I am grateful to honourable members from both sides of the chamber for their well-informed debate so far on this issue. I think the debate underlines the importance that honourable members on both sides see in housing in Australia and demonstrates the significance of the legislation that we now have before us. I refer to the question that has just been raised as regards clause 18(1) in the Schedule to the Bill. It relates to the question of rental, and relates the rental in the housing sector to the market rates- the rates pertaining in the general market. I think the honourable member for Reid would acknowledge the principles behind that provision. The Government intends that assistance in this area should go to those most in need and that it should go to them at the time of greatest need. I think all honourable members involved in the debate would acknowledge that that is a sound principle. Under the rental program, people will pay rents related to income until their rents become marketrelated. Of course for pensioners and those in real need, the rebates will apply. 
The honourable member for Reid referred to the amendment that was moved earlier. The proposal that was suggested by the Opposition in many respects is similar, at least in effect, to the requirements of the Agreement itself. The Agreement requires the States to charge a rent related to market rent to those no longer in need. For example, the present policy in New South Wales is to charge a rent of 80 per cent of market rates. That, of course, is also consistent with the terms of the Agreement. As I have said, rebates are provided for those in need. In many cases, this results in rents much lower than 85 per cent of the market rate for lower income families. So, in effect, what the Opposition is seeking to achieve would be achieved in any event. I believe that the amendment would introduce an element of inflexibility which I do not think the States themselves would accept. 
I shall reply briefly to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He has raised two issues on this clause. One is the cost of rebates; the other is the question of a uniform rebate. He suggested that the Commonwealth should bear the cost of rebates. The point I make is that the source of revenue is the same when one analyses it. It is money that comes from the taxpayers. I do not see any difference. The real issue he raised is that of uniform rebates. I certainly see merit in that suggestion. The Agreement annexed to this Bill requires the Commonwealth and the States to seek ways of moving towards a uniform system of rebates in Australia. Unfortunately, during the period of negotiation for the Agreement it was not possible to reach an agreement on a uniform system. This is a complex area. Each State operates its own system. There are problems. For example, how does one define income? What allowances should there be for dependants? These are the sorts of issues involved. Work has started at the official level to find some solution to these problems. Recently a two-day conference in Canberra looked at these issues and we hope that some good will come out of that. I am optimistic that at some stage in the not too distant future we will have a uniform system of rebates in this country. 
Remainder of clause agreed to. 
Clauses 1 9 to 25- by leave- taken together. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments arise from the agreement reached in Darwin on 10 May as a result of discussions with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Northern Land Council. Honourable members will know that some concern had been expressed about the role which the Northern Territory should play in the developments that are planned in the Alligator Rivers Region as a consequence of the Government's decision to proceed with uranium mining in the region. Two major decisions of the Government are to proceed with the establishment of the Kakadu National Park and to make special arrangements for the supervision of environmental protection measures in the region. The Bill to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act will facilitate the establishment of the Kakadu National Park, and this Bill with which we are now concerned- the Environment Protection (Alligators Rivers Region) Bill- will establish the environment protection arrangements. The amendments now introduced to this Bill underline our recognition of the role of the Northern Territory in respect of powers and functions of the Supervising Scientist to be established under this BUI. 
The amendments give statutory recognition to the Government's earlier statements that the Northern Territory Government will be represented on the Co-ordinating Committee to be established under this Bill. They also provide for the Supervising Scientist to have regard to the views of the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission and for reports prepared by the Supervising Scientist under clause 36 of the Bill to be provided to the appropriate Minister of the Northern Territory. I am sure honourable members will agree that these are very proper and responsible proposals in the light of the constitutional development of the Northern Territory, and I commend them to the Committee. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments arise from the agreement reached in Darwin on 10 May, to which I referred when I introduced the amendments to the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill. Following the discussions in Darwin, the Government is pleased to see that there is agreement on the way in which the Park should be managed, respecting the rights and responsibilities of both the Northern Territory Executive and the Northern Land Council. The amendments represent the agreed proposals. The amendments provide that the Director of National Parks and Wildlife shall consult with the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission in respect of the preparation of the plans of management for parks and reserves declared under the Commonwealth Act in the Northern Territory. Provision is made for the Commonwealth to consult with the Northern Territory and to make arrangements with the Territory in respect of the performance of functions - 
As I was saying, provision is made for the Commonwealth to consult with the Northern Territory and to make arrangements with the Territory with respect to the performance of functions and the exercise of powers under the Commonwealth Act by officers or employees of authorities of the Northern Territory. The rights and interests of Aboriginals are recognised in arrangements that may be made under these proposed sub-clauses by providing that such arrangements shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of any law, including, of course, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, nor with any agreement between the Commonwealth and an Aboriginal land council. Honourable members will appreciate that the land comprising stage one of the Kakadu National Park is to be granted to Aboriginals under the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. Land is then to be leased to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and is to be proclaimed and managed as a national park. 
There is also a provision in the Bill which places the Northern Territory in a position similar to the States. Sub-section 6 (2) of the principal Act provides that the Commonwealth cannot acquire land for the purposes of the principal Act without the consent of the State, where such land is already reserved under State laws for conservation purposes. The Uluru (Ayers Rock-Mount Olga) National Park and the Alligator Rivers Region are excluded from the operation of this provision because the Commonwealth has already established national park interests in these areas. These amendments are a recognition of the emerging independent status of the Northern Territory and I commend them to honourable members. 
I shall respond briefly to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  (Quorum formed).  Mr Chairman,  I was attempting to explain why the concern expressed by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  was without foundation. I refer the honourable member to the wording of the new clause 4 (3) in the amendment, which states: 
Land in the Northern Territory, other than land in the Uluru (Ayers Rock-Mt Olga) National Park or in the Alligator Rivers Region as denned by the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act 1978, shall not, without the consent of the Territory- 
So the area excluded from that definition is the Alligator Rivers Region. If honourable members look at the area covered by the Alligator Rivers region, as denned in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill and the map at the back thereof, they will see that Gimbat and Goodparla are within the Alligators Rivers region. Therefore, the question of consent does not apply to those leases. 
I again make some brief remarks.  (Quorum formed)  Both the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourble member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  have adopted classic centralist arguments because what they have really been saying is that no State and no Territory is capable of managing a park. If we analyse their argument, that is what they are saying. They are not expressing any concern for the Aboriginal people and are certainly not expressing the views of the Aboriginal people because in fact they have agreed to these amendments. 
-The Northern Land Council, which represents the Aboriginal people in that area, has agreed that this is a proper provision and it has supported it. It is not a question of sovereignty, as was suggested. All the Government is saying is that if a Territory has established a park or a reserve we should not then extend our park or reserve and take over that area. What is wrong with that? As I say, it comes back to whether the park is being properly managed. States and Territories are capable of managing parks. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 1 present an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania made under the provisions of that Act. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
These amendments arise from the agreement reached in Darwin on 10 May as a result of discussions with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Northern Land Council. Honourable members will recall that some concern had been expressed about the role which the Northern Territory should play in the developments that are planned in the Alligator Rivers Region as a consequence of the Government's decision to proceed with uranium mining in the region. 
The purpose of these amendments is to give the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission standing to invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory in relation to uranium mining operations for the purposes set out in clause 4 of the Bill. The Director of National Parks and the relevant land council also have this standing under the Bill. These amendments further underline our recognition of the role of the Northern Territory in respect of uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
I move: 
That Senate's amendments Nos. 1 to 5 be agreed to. 
Much of what has been said-- 
-Much of what has been said by the Opposition does not warrant comment. However, I want to make some points on the subjects raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  I think it is fair to say that because of what they said tonight they are guilty of a complete turnabout from what they said on 4 May during the earlier debate. It is more than just a shifting of ground. Now they are going in the opposite direction. On 4 May they said that the Government should take more notice of what the States are saying. They were saying in effect that  Mr Hamer  is a good Premier and that the Victorian Government is a good government which has made sound representations to which this Government should listen and act upon. That is exactly what we have done. Now these two honourable members are changing their colours. They do not accept what we are now doing, although they were calling for it on 4 May. 
One wonders about their motives. The problem is that they, like other honourable members opposite, are totally opposed to uranium mining and seek to obstruct every Bill on this issue. That is their real motivation. We have talked to the States and their officials and have taken notice of their views. We have given them a chance to express themselves and now we are giving them the opportunity to create their own codes and their own legislation on uranium mining. If these honourable members had followed what has been said since August last year when the decisions on uranium mining were announced they would see that what we are saying now is completely consistent with what we were saying then. It has always been the intention of the Government that the codes should be enforced not under Commonwealth laws but under State laws. That has always been the intention of this Government and these two honourable members who have been so critical must realise that. 
It is complete nonsense to say that there has been an abdication of power or authority. We retain the power and authority that we had under the Constitution. Honourable members opposite know that. All we are doing is giving the States an opportunity to create acceptable legislation and acceptable codes. 
Well, we have the power; that is the important thing. To suggest that we have handed over that power - 
I ask the honourable member to read section 5 1 of the Constitution and all the placita in section 51 of the Constitution and study it. He will see what powers we have. To suggest that we have abdicated those powers is complete nonsense. We retain those powers. By virtue of this amendment we are not handing over those powers at all. So there is no basis for the concern expressed by honourable members opposite. What they say indicates really an ignorance of the Constitution and the power that the Commonwealth has. 
I wish to make a point in response to the rather amusing dialogue of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  He does not realise that he has completely stripped the arguments of his colleagues. I do not know whether he was in the chamber earlier. He totally destroyed the arguments of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  who realises it and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  They said that we should have a national code enforced by national law. The honourable member for Hughes produced a document which we all know about. He said that the Commonwealth would have no power. I disagree with that point of view. No doubt the two gentlemen to whom I have referred would also disagree. The honourable member has destroyed their arguments. 
I move: 
That Senate 's amendment No. 6 be agreed to. 
I am very pleased that the honourable member has mentioned this scheme. I believe that it is one of the very great achievements of this Government. The new scheme which the Government introduced is proving to be highly successful. At present applications are being made at the rate of about 1 ,300 each week. That indicates the popularity of the scheme. It is a scheme which rewards people, especially young people, who work hard and save money. I think that is a great thing. In other words, it is an incentive scheme. At present, as honourable members would realise, the maximum grant paid is $1,333. We expect that about $34m will be spent under the scheme in the current financial year. The scheme is of great assistance to those seeking their first homes and, I might add, to the home building industry. The scheme is assisting in a very real way the Government and the people of Australia to achieve one of the main objectives of the Government, namely, to encourage people to own their own homes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77, as shown in the accounting records of my Department, were: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report was commissioned and funded by the Commonwealth to stimulate informed debate within the community generally and by those authorities charged with the provision of sewerage systems. It has achieved that objective. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1(a)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Environmental impact statements have been directed on the following proposals on the dates shown: 30 September 1975-A.N.L. Container Terminal, Botany Bay, New South Wales. 7 October 1975- Marine Maintenance Facility, Neutral Bay, Sydney, New South Wales. 8 October 1975- South Eastern Freeway, Brisbane, Queensland. 9 October 1975-K.eilor By-pass, Victoria. 9 October 1975- Eastern Freeway, from Thompson/ Bulleen Road to the Maroondah Highway east of Ringwood, Victoria. 9 October 1975- Extension to Lower Yarra Freeway, Victoria. 9 October 1975-Hume Freeway, Bell St to Eastern Freeway, Victoria. 9 October 1975-Burnie By-pass, Stage B, Tasmania. 1 October 1975- -Canbe" /Royalla Transmission Line. 5 February 1976-A.C.T. Police Radio Facilities. 24 March- Proposed, Telephone Exchange, Davey Street, Hobart, Tasmania. 24 May 1976- Proposed Mail Exchange and Transport Centre, Campbell Street, Hoban, Tasmania. 30 July 1976-Nebo Open Cast Coal Mining Project, Bowen Basin, Queensland (Thiess Dampier Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd). 30 July 1 976-Hail Creek Project Open Cast Coal Mine, Bowen Basin, Queensland (Hail Creek Management Pty Ltd). 30 July 1976-Norwich Park Coal Mine Proposal. Queensland (Central Queensland Coal Association). 30 July 1976-Blair Athol Coal Project, Bowen Basin, Queensland (Blair Athol Coal Pty Ltd). 30 July 1976-Gregory Coal Mining Project, Bowen Basin, Queensland (Dampier Mining Co. Ltd). 3 December 1976- Agnew Nickel Mining Project, Western Australia (Agnew Mining Co.) 3 December 1976- Second Darwin Power Station, Northern Territory. 19 January 1977- West Cape Light Tower, Yorke Peninsula, South Australia. 30 January 1977-North Canberra, 132 kv Subtransmission development- Extension to Ainslie and Kingston, Australian Capital Territory. 7 March 1 977- Construction of Stuart Highway on a new alignment from Port Augusta, South Australia to Northern Territory border. 8 March 1977- Proposal to extend and expand export approvals for the Woodchip Operation of Harris Daishowa Aust Pty Ltd at Eden, New South Wales. 26 March 1 977-Proposed Pulp/Paper Mill Albury, New South Wales (Australian Newsprint Mills) 4 April 1977- Goldsworthy 'C Iron Ore Development, Western Australia (Goldsworthy Mining Co.) 4 April 1977- Marandoo Iron Ore Development, Western Australia (Texasgulf Australia Ltd). 5 May 1977- Erection of Telecommunication Tower at Katoomba, New South Wales. 1 1 May 1 977- Wagerup Alumina Project, Western Australia (Alco of Australia (WA) Ltd). 1 July 1977- Proposed establishemt of Omega Navigation Facility. 26 July 1977-Elements of the Western Parkway and Arterial Road System Australian Capital Territory (Glenloch Interchange). 23 September 1977- Offshore Petroleum ProposalPeel No. 1 Exploration Well, Western Australia (West Australia Petroleum Pty Ltd). 26 September 1977-Second Hobart Bridge across the Derwent River at Dowsing 's Point, Tasmania. 10 October 1 977- Construction of Coconut GroveLudmillaFannie Bay Connector and Frances Bay Connector Roads (as a scheme for improvements to road ecces from the Northern Suburbs to Darwin CBD), Northern Territory. 1 November 1977- Redevelopment of Garden Island Naval Dockyard, Sydney, New South Wales. 14 November 1977- Proposed Export of Woodchips from the Port of Newcastle, New South Wales (Sawmillers Exports Pty Ltd ). 17 November 1977- Jabiluka Uranium Project, Northern Territory (Pancontinental Mining Ltd). 17 November 1977- Koongarra Uranium project, Northern Territory (Noranda Australia Ltd ). 17 November 1977- Nabarlek Uranium project, Northern Territory (Queensland Mines Ltd). 17 November 1 977- Yeelirrie Uranium Project Western Australia ( Western Mining Corporation Ltd ). 12 December 1977- Agnes Waters Mineral Sands project, Queensland (Mineral Deposits Ltd). 12 December 1 977- Proposed establishment of a lead zinc mine at Elura, near Cobar, New South Wales (EZ Industries). 13 January 1978- Proposed 27,000 acre tourist complex Farnborough (near Yeppoon) Queensland, (Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust) Pty Ltd). 12 January 1978- Proposed construction of an aluminium smelter on Boyne Island near Gladstone, Queensland (Comalco Ltd). 8 February 1978- Crocodile Development Project, Edward River, Queensland (Applied Ecology Pty Ltd). 15 February 1 978- Extension of Arnhem Highway, Northern Territory (Pancontinental Mining Ltd). 21 February 1978- Metallurgical Research Plant at Kalgoorlie, Western Australia (Western Mining Corporation). 27 February 1978-North West Shelf Natural Gas Development, Western Australia (Woodside Petroleum Developments Pty Ltd ). 30 March 1 978- Residential Development of Section 100, Yarralumla Australian Capital Territory. 
Environment Inquiry on Uranium Development in the Northern Territory: Direction notified in the Gazette on 16 July 1975. 
Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry: Direction notified in the Gazette on 1 6 July 1 975. 
-I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs for his most thoughtful question. It is a fact that the Commonwealth has agreed to provide the Queensland Government with $10m to assist it to construct facilities in Brisbane or in that area for the 1982 games. I can certainly understand the honourable member's wish that some of that money should be used to assist people residing in areas outside the immediate Brisbane area because we are all aware of his concern for the country people of Australia and of Queensland in particular. The money which we have agreed to provide is of course to be used for the construction of sporting facilities and to construct accommodation facilities for officials and the competitors who will be attending the games. 
The terms of the grant will enable the Queensland Government, in consultation with the Brisbane City Council, to make decisions as to precisely how that money should be spent. Whether the money will be spent in the manner suggested by the honourable member is really a question to be answered by the Queensland Government and, I repeat, by the Brisbane City Council as well. I suggest to him that perhaps he would like to approach the Queensland Premier and put to him the views he has expressed today to the House. As I have said, these matters are ones for the Queensland Government. 
-I understand that earlier the honourable member for Holt was wearing a 'Life Be In It' badge, probably as well as his gold medallion, so I take it that the question is related to the 'Life Be In It' program. The program is proving to be a most successful one. It is encouraging many Australians to be in it- that is, to be in life. At the moment the Government is spending $600,000 on this program, with considerable support from State governments, private enterprise and in particular the media. We certainly thank them for their support. It was pleasing that members of the Parliament from both chambers participated in some light recreational activity in the rose garden today, to give some encouragement to Australians to be involved in light recreational activity. That is the whole purpose of the 'Life Be In It' program. Its purpose is to involve people not in heavy recreation at all but just in light recreation. I cannot say that honourable members on this side of the House were terribly happy with the decision of the referee but we did show that we can be gracious in defeat as well as in victory. 
I wish to respond very briefly to the points made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  in his short address to the House. I want to make one or two comments about rent increases in the Glebe Estate. As I think the honourable member has recognised, I have agreed that the rent increases which were announced last year should be postponed until 3 
July. I went to the Glebe Estate early in the year, accompanied by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)-  who I see is in the chamber- following his representations, to meet with the residents' advisory committee. We had a most informative meeting with the members of that committee and I listened carefully to their comments and to those of the honourable member. 
Following that meeting it was decided that the properties in the Glebe Estate should be reassessed to determine what should be the appropriate rental value. Valuers were then appointed and the properties have been assessed, except that at the moment, I am told, a further 182 properties remain unassessed. I am told that those remaining properties should be assessed by 10 June. I think that that was the date mentioned. I expect that a final decision will then be made on the appropriate levels of rental. I want to make a couple of points about rent increases. Rents generally have not been increased for dwellings in the Estate since the Estate was first acquired back in August 1974. 
I will make a comment about rehabilitation in a moment. I am advised that the revenue from rents will be approximately half the expenditure on the Estate in this current financial year of $ 1.49m. That is a substantial amount of money. I am afraid that there will have to be a movement towards market-related rents- this is the general policy applying in housing areas around Australia- in which this Government and the State governments are involved but the impact of any increases is to be softened as much as possible by the application of rebates and by a gradual increase. This will certainly apply to Glebe. We do not believe that any genuine hardship will result from these increases. Of course no one likes to increase rentals but, as I say, we believe that there will be no hardship as such. If the honourable member for Reid or the honourable member for Sydney can bring to my attention particular cases where they believe there is real hardship I will certainly undertake to examine them very carefully. 
On the question of rehabilitation, which the honourable member mentioned, the Commonwealth is very much aware of the need to continue the rehabilitation program for the Glebe Estate. That point was brought home to me on my visit, as I have mentioned. 
-I am about to answer the honourable member's question. Obviously the state of the dwelling is a matter which must be taken into account in determining the appropriate level of rent. Of course that has been taken into account. We want to continue the program of rehabilitation. As I said, the valuers have been around, as agreed with the local people, and they are determining what will be an appropriate level of rental. I must say frankly that I doubt whether, following these assessments, the level of rental will be lower than previously indicated in the letter which was circulated. I also mention that another letter is being sent out to tenants explaining in further detail the decisions that have been taken. Within the need for continued restraint on expenditure, which has been expressed as policy on many occasions, we as a government will certainly ensure that essential maintenance and rehabilitation work is continued in the Glebe Estate. As I said, the state of the dwelling - 
I have finished. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Forty-three officers and employees. 
The Department's expenditure on official telephones in private residences in 1976/77 was $ 10,035.75. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, the Government has completed its consideration of the recommendations of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. 
All decisions which have been made on the recommendations have been announced. Any future decisions which may relate less directly to the Inquiry will be announced as appropriate. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to parliamentary Question No. 468 provided by the Prime Minister  (Hansard,  4 April, 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Specific items of expenditure are not to be read as a measure of total Government activity under any particular functional head. Both the States and Local Government have been provided with increased levels of general revenue funds and therefore an increased capacity to involve these levels of government in urban and regional development The following matters must also be considered: 
Winding down of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
Reduced spending on sewerage in the Australian Capital Territory as the Lower Molonglo Water Quality Con trol Centre nears completion. 
Decreased level of land development in Canberra. 
Scaling down of expenditure on growth centres to reflect more realistic population targets. 
Lower administrative costs, reflecting reductions in staf numbers and expenses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, the Department was so requested and responded by letter dated 17 March 1977. 
No. As the Council's request has already been answered, it is not proposed to duplicate that reply now. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The Federal Government has not encouraged any additional Land Commissions. However, a proposal has been received from Queensland concerning the establishing of a scheme to fund urban land development. 
My Department is carrying out continuous monitoring of prices for serviced housing blocks in major metropolitan areas. 
The Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs has been established to examine land and housing issues in Australia. That Committee is expected to evaluate public policies relating to land development and to provide a framework against which an appropriate Commonwealth role can be developed. 
The States themselves of course are responsible for conducting ongoing evaluation as part of their own management procedures. 
Expenditure on land acquisition in 1976-77 by Land Commissions/Councils has been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Littoral Society did not receive funds in 1977-78 from any program administered by my Department. 
The Director of the Australian Heritage Commission did receive a letter from the Director of the Australian Littoral Society in February on a research project, after the Society had learned that the Co-ordinator General's Department had proposed that the project be carried out by the Queensland Fisheries Service. The letter requested that the funds be allocated to the Society for the project, rather than to the Fisheries Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No comprehensive information is collected on the number of persons or households repaying housing loans. 
Estimates for the six State capital cities can be obtained from the Household Expenditure Survey of 1974-75 conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. On the basis of that survey it was estimated that in 1974-75 in the six State capital cities, 1,073,000 households (41 percent of all households in those cities) were repaying housing loans. A further 75 1,700 households in the State capital cities (29 per cent of all households in these cities) own their dwellings outright. 
Information is also available on the value of outstanding housing loans from savings banks and permanent building societies. As at 3 1 December 1977, there was $ 1 3,244m outstanding in housing loans from these institutions. Information on the value of outstanding housing loans from trading banks and other institutions providing housing finance is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service Australian Heritage Commission 
Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority 
The Supervising Scientist and the Alligator Rivers 
RegionResearch Institute 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I stated in my second reading speech on the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1978 the Government accepted the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry's recommendation that consideration be given to the resumption of Goodparla and pan or all of Gimbat, with a view to their incorporation in the park. Their significance to the park is well recognised and the Government will be looking at this matter at the appropriate time. 
HIFAR Reactor  (Question No. 1391) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The national sewerage program was terminated on 30 June 1977. Thus no plans are extant for the Shire of Werribee. 
and (3) These matters are the responsibility of State and local government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Receptacles for the collection of waste paper have been placed on each floor of the buildings occupied by my Department. When the receptacles are full the paper is transferred by Departmental officers to the basement of the buildings for collection by a paper recycling company. 
There is currently no requirement to recycle metals and glass as the generation of these materials as waste does not occur. Should the need become evident in future the implementation of procedures for recycling will be investigated. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Environment (Financial Assistance) Act 1977 I present four agreements made under the provisions of that Act relating to New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania and Victoria. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 1 present a supplementary agreement in relation to the provision of financial assistance to Western Australia for land acquisition for nature conservation purposes 1976-77. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present six agreements made under the provisions of that Act relating to New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia. 
I thank the honourable member for McMillan for his question. I am aware of the recommendations of the honourable member's backbench committee which worked so well and effectively during 1976 and greatly assisted the Government in drawing up its highly successful policy on sport. If my memory serves me correctly, at the time the committee was considering the issue which the honourable member has raised today there was some Press publicity given to it, and some Premiers very quickly and very vocally expressed concern at the Commonwealth showing interest in a sports lottery. They pointed out, and I think probably rightly, that a lottery of this nature would be a State matter. I am aware of the lobbying being carried out at the present time by the Confederation of Australian Sport. My Department is discussing the issue with the Confederation and with relevant officers of State departments. 
Turning to the last part of the question, I do not believe that the expenditure of money by governments is likely to result in a proportionate increase in the success of an international team or in the number of medals that might be won by a team competing in. international events. Our efforts at Edmonton support that suggestion. Our athletes, our sportsmen and women, performed most creditably in the recent Commonwealth Games. For example, only one competitor broke a world record and she was an Australian, Tracy Wickham. Australians won 84 medals, our second highest tally in the history of the Commonwealth Games. It was second only to the 105 medals we won in Perth in 1 962. 
We won more medals this time than we did in New Zealand in 1974 although at those Games we had the highest tally of all the competing nations. One fact that might interest honourable members is that a comparison of medals won to team size shows that Australia with 0.44 medals per head came out ahead of Canada with 0.38 medals per head and England with 0.33 medals per head. 
-(Braddon-Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development)- Pursuant to section 6 of the Environment (Financial Assistance) Art 1977 I present an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and South Australia made under the provisions of that Act. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question. Certainly the Budget will be of great assistance to home buyers and the home building industry in Australia, mainly because the central theme of the Budget, which is to get inflation and interest rates down, is the best way of creating a favourable climate for the home building industry in this country. So the general approach is the right one. I believe the decisions made in the Budget are the right ones. I mention the decisions on welfare housing, pensioner housing and the home savings grant. Under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement we are providing to the States an amount of $3 16m for welfare housing and of that amount $ 130m will be by way of matching grants. Those funds, together with the surpluses which are created through the sale of houses within the States, will, the Government believes, ensure that the States will have the same capacity as they had in the last financial year to provide rental and purchase accommodation within the States. 
In this year 's Budget we are providing $ 1 4m to the States by way of a non-repayable grant for pensioner housing, and that figure compares with $10m allocated in the last financial year. So the amount of funds being provided for pensioner housing represents a 40 per cent increase. I think that indicates the real concern on the part of this Government for those in need- for our pensioners. We are providing $20m in this financial year by way of home savings grants. There was some suggestion that that scheme was under threat. It remains, and the eligibility rules remain. The maximum grant will be the same as was indicated previously; that is, from 1 January 1979 people will become eligible for a maximum grant of $2,000. There will be a waiting period, and the Treasurer made a statement in that regard in his Budget Speech. 
The main point is that people who are considering the housing situation and the advantages gained from the Budget by the housing industry and by home purchasers should not overlook the enormous benefits to be gained in respect of housing through a lower rate of inflation and through reduced interest rates. By way of example- this is only by way of example- if we look at an average loanMr SPEAKER-Order ! I ask the Minister to draw his answer to a conclusion. 
-I will be very brief. A 0.5 per cent reduction in the interest rate on a loan of $25,000 being repaid over 25 years will mean a saving in the order of $9 a month, the total saving over the period of the loan being $2,600. Again by way of example, a one per cent reduction in respect of such a loan would result in a saving of $ 1 8 a month and a total saving over the period of the loan of $5,300. A 1.5 per cent reduction in the interest rate on an average loan taken out over an average period would mean a saving of the order of $26 a month or a total saving over the period of the loan of $7,900. That is real money; no one can dispute that. 
There has been a dramatic reduction in the rate of increase in the cost of materials used in home building. For example, in the last financial year the rate of increase was 6.6 per cent, which was about half the rate of increase in the previous financial year. Those results prove that our general economic approach is working and will be of great benefit to home buyers in Australia and to the home building industry. I would like to say much more but I do not have time. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Environment (Financial Assistance) Act 1977 I present an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and Western Australia made under the provisions of that Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4), (7) The Government has decided not to proceed with the Housing Allowance Experiment. 
No. 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1976-$ 103,897.47 
1977- $91,943.58 
1978- $47,137.82. 
1976-35,355 
1977- 26,043 
1978- 11,079. 
1976-16 
1977- 8 
1978- 5. 
1976- 
First child-S 103,897.47. Second child- Nil Third child-Nil. 
1977- 
First child-$80,202.34 
Second child-S 1 1 ,74 1 .24 
Third child-Nil. 1978- 
First child-$47,137.82 
Second child- Nil 
Third child-Nil. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An environmental impact statement (EIS) was prepared by consultants to the Iwasaki Sangyo Company to satisfy the requirements of both the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments. 
The EIS was released for public review and comment for a thirty day period from 20 June to 20 July. Following this public review period, my Department prepared an environmental assessment report taking into account the comments received, the response of the Company to these comments and the views of Commonwealth departments and agencies. On the basis of this report and taking into account the provisions of the Queensland International Tourist Centre Agreement Act and other Queensland Government legislation, which provide for continuing environmental management of the tourist resort project, the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development provided environmental clearance for the proposal on 25 July 1978. The Company has agreed to submit a final EIS within one month of the above date and to make available to the public future environmental studies prepared in accordance with Queensland Government requirements. 
See answers ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Yes; (b) No, the information was supplied as part of a confidential submission to the Government. 
Not applicable see (2) (a). 
Not applicable see ( 1 ). 
Yes. 
All relevant joint assessment procedures outlined in the agreed arrangements between my Department and the Western Australian Department of Conservation and 
Environment up to and including paragraph 5.2.7 (f) have been undertaken. 
No, see 2(b) above. 
No, the Commonwealth assessment of this proposal is being undertaken in accordance with the requirements of the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current emission controls on cars incorporated in Australian Design Rule 27A were introduced following resolution by the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC). In deciding to introduce this Rule, ATAC considered the report of its Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions (COMVE) entitled 'Air Pollution and the Motor Vehicle in Australia- 1974 Review.' This advisory Committee comprises representatives of Commonwealth and State transport, environment and energy ministries, the motor and petroleum industries, and motorists associations. Their report outlines the rationale in favour of the introduction of ADR 27A and addresses the issue of air quality in some detail. In particular, it outlines observations of the concentrations of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen dioxide, photochemical oxidants (including ozone), particulate matter and lead carried out in Brisbane (October 1 97 1 to June 1973), Sydney ( 197 1 to 1973), Melbourne (from June 1973), Adelaide (from August 1972), Perth (1970 to 1972) and Canberra (1972). 
The observations were carried out using modern automatic air monitoring instruments. The principles employed in obtaining these observations and the results obtained are outlined in the Committee's report. They are too extensive and detailed to be included in this reply and I refer the honourable member to this Report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The pamphlet was first distributed by my Depanment in early 1976. 
No. 
Yes. 
The pamphlet was withdrawn by the Depanment in September 1977, as pan of a regular updating of information leaflets. 
Answers to Questions upon Notice  (Question No. 1561) 
-I did see the report of the reduction in interest rates of one half of one per cent by the Queensland State Government Insurance Office for lending for homes. There is a problem in the suggestion put by the honourable member that the waiting period for the home savings grant might be reduced for new homes. It is important that proper support be given to the purchase of old homes because people often move from old homes into new homes. There is some importance in supporting both areas. The Government in its housing policies has recognised the significance of the home building industry to Australia. It is an important sector of the Australian economy and we recognise that. It has been going through a flat period, particularly during the early part of this year, but there are some very good signs around that the situation is improving for the home building industry. It is a pity that the Opposition has not recognised this fact because those who speak of gloom and doom for the home building industry are doing great harm. Confidence is important in this industry as it is in every industry, and I think that should be recognised. 
At the outset I want to reaffirm two points, one of which I made earlier at Question Time. The Government does recognise that the housing industry is an industry of vital importance to this country. It is one of our foremost industries. It is important that it be given all the support it can be given. The housing industry has been going through a difficult period. The Government recognises that. Its activity was at a lower level than desirable during the last financial year and, in particular, in the early part of this calendar year. As was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the industry certainly has been operating below capacity. It would be wrong of me not to recognise those fundamental points in making my comments today. But I think it should be recognised also that the situation is improving. It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition did not recognise that fact, did not look for a few good points and did not read the newspapers this morning and see some of the headlines to which I will refer in a moment. 
I want to make one very important point for the benefit of the Opposition and it is a serious point. It is wrong for the Opposition continually to paint as black a picture as it can possibly paint. This does not do any good at all for the industry. I think that point must be recognised. All the expressions of gloom and doom and all the knocking do not help. As I said at Question Time, confidence is important in the building industry, as it is in any other industry. I suggest to those who are knocking, who are painting pictures of gloom and who are failing to recognise the facts and to see some of the good signs that they are doing nothing for the industry. I can understand their motives. They are motives of self-interest. There is no concern for the important industry that we are now talking about. I hope that the Opposition will not be disposed to continue to talk in the way in which it is and that it will look at a few bright spots, which I will mention in a moment or two, stress them and emphasise them. In doing that the Opposition would be doing much more for the building industry and for the home buyers of this country than it is doing at the moment. Confidence is critical to the industry. Demand is considered at the moment to be one of the important factors in the reduced levels of activity in the industry. It is a key ingredient. It is certainly harmed by this sort of exaggerated talk about lack of finance and tightness in the money supply, the scepticism about interest rates, as was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, and the false claims about cuts in government expenditure. These sorts of comments only turn people away from houses and the home building industry and do a great deal of damage to the industry itself. 
I want to mention some of the good points that the Leader of the Opposition failed to recognise in his speech today. Let us talk about finance- a very important subject. The flow of funds to housing is certainly on the increase at the moment. This was not recognised. I refer to the facts which were disclosed yesterday when the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics on lending for housing by savings banks and trading banks for the month of July were released. I mention some of the key points. Approvals rose by 7 per cent in July compared to the previous month. 
Total approvals in the three-month period ended July were 6 per cent higher than approvals in the three months to April and slightly higher than approvals in the corresponding three months of the previous year. The number of trading bank loan approvals for housing, seasonally adjusted, rose in July for the third consecutive month. Other key points with respect to the seasonally adjusted figures are that approvals rose by almost 6 per cent compared to the previous month. Total approvals in the three months ended July were almost 1 1 per cent higher than approvals in the three months to April and 10 per cent higher than approvals in the corresponding three months of the previous year. On present indications the total number of loan approvals for housing by banks and permanent building societies should be significantly higher in 1978-79 than in 1977-78. The best advice I have is that the funds flowing from the banks to housing may increase by a figure in the order of 20 per cent in this current financial year and from building societies to the purchase of homes by a figure of the order of 9 per cent in this financial year. They are important figures which were not recognised by the Leader of the Opposition in making his remarks today. 
It is important also to note the total figure of $267.326m, which is the highest figure ever recorded. That figure was not mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. It is a pity that he has not picked up these facts. If he had looked at the newspapers this morning he would have seen a couple of the headlines. The  Australian Financial Review  headline states: 'Banks help almost 84,000 get their own homes'. The  Daily Telegraph's  headline states: 'Bank lending up for homes'. Some important comments are made there. Again, the Leader of the Opposition failed to see those headlines and to recognise those good signs which are about and which indicate that things are on the up for the home building industry. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statement issued yesterday by  Mr R.  B. Cameron, the Director of the Australian Bankers Association Research Directorate, in Sydney, which indicates that the funds flowing to housing are on the increase, and to quote briefly from it. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

From: Australian Bankers' Association Research Directorate, 23 Hunter Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 
One comment  Mr Cameron  makes is that the reduction in the prescribed investment ratio of the nationally operated savings banks, from 45 per cent to 40 per cent in late August, will assist the capacity of the banks to give continued strong support for housing. That is in complete contradiction to a statement which was made by the Leader of the Opposition. The best thing this Government can do for housing in Australia and for the housing industry is to get inflation down further, to get interest rates down further, to continue to improve the general economic climate of this country, to strengthen confidence and, as a result, to strengthen demand for housing. That is the way in which to get real money into the pockets of people who are buying their own homes. Recently I mentioned figures on the advantages to be gained from reductions in interest rates. The reduction of 0.5 per cent in interest rates will mean a saving of something like $9 per month. That is a significant benefit for people who are seeking to buy their own homes and who are struggling along paying these high repayments. We must get interest rates down further. There has been a dramatic improvement in the inflation rate. It was running at a rate of almost 20 per cent in 1974-75. It is down to 7.9 per cent. There has been a big reduction- a dramatic moderation- in the inflation rate applying, in particular, to building materials. That again is an important fact. 
The Leader of the Opposition once again produced the old tried remedy of spend, spend, spend. He sees this as the answer to the problems of the home building industry. He says the spending of more money- an additional $ 700m- is the panacea. That has been tried before and it has failed. It is not the answer now. The answer is to be found in the Government's general approach to the economy, that is, to get interest rates down and to get the inflation rate down. That is recognised by the industry representatives. The Master Builders Association, the Housing Industry Association, all the representatives of the industry have agreed that our general approach in the Budget is the right approach. That is important to recognise. They have praised us for our general approach. In fairness to them, they have asked for a bit more money here and a bit more money there, but the trouble is that that prejudices the general approach. Unfortunately, we really cannot have it both ways. We cannot have spending to support particular industries and at the same time keep the deficit down and thereby get inflation down further and interest rates down. It prejudices our general approach if we start advancing large sums of money on Budget to any industry. 
Dealing with the general approach adopted by the Leader of the Opposition, his comments today are incorporated in his Budget, as I understand it. It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition is not given the chance to produce his own Budget before we produce ours because it might make a difference to his approach. He has suggested that we should have a deficit of $3,650m and a money supply target of 9 per cent to 1 1 per cent.  His  plan would certainly weaken the Government's anti-inflationary drive and would destroy the real prospect which now exists of reducing interest rates. No doubt that would damage the lot of home buyers in Australia. For example, his plan to subsidise borrowings by producing $7.5m is an interesting one in that the $7.5m only applies for the first financial year. The total cost would be much greater than that. I ask the Leader of the Opposition to look at that suggestion and produce the total cost. Let us see how much the proposal would cost in total. 
There are some questions that one should ask. Does his plan apply only to banks? What are the criteria of eligibility for people who might be able to take advantage of it? We do not know about that. What about the building societies? Are they to be part of the scheme? We are not sure about that.  His  approach is certainly not a responsible one. It is a costly one. It would be inflationary, there is no doubt about that. It would destroy the opportunities which now exist for reducing interest rates. I am afraid that it is a replay of the old record we heard back in 1974 and 1975- 'Just write a cheque and she'll be right, mate. A little bit of spending solves everything'. We know that that does not happen. It is not as simple as that, and deep down in their hearts I think the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  both realise that the panacea they are suggesting would not solve the problems. I really think that deep down in their hearts they agree with the general approach we are adopting. As I said before, the industry itself recognises that our general approach is the right one. 
The Budget reinforces the Government's concern for the health of the housing industry and the ability of Australians to buy their own homes. The Budget further bears down on inflation and creates the conditions for the expansion in private sector finance that we are now seeing and a sustainable reduction in interest rates. By reducing the deficit and its financing requirement and by maintaining monetary stability the Government has eased pressure on the finance market. This has increased the scope for sustainable cuts in interest rates. There is little need for me to remind the House of the impact of lower interest rates on the housing industry. Interest rate reductions reduce the repayments necessary on any given loan and increase the opportunities for home ownership. That is our aim and that is what we will achieve through the policies we have adopted. They will work. They are working now. 
It was mentioned today in the House that in Queensland there has been a reduction of one half of one per cent in interest rates on home loans. Of course, in many areas building societies have reduced their home loan interest rates by one half of one per cent. There is more to come and it will come. Clearly, there is a correlation between inflation rates and interest rates. There is every prospect that we will get inflation down to something of the order of 5 per cent at the end of this financial year, and that gives us every prospect of a significant reduction in interest rates. The Budget as it has been drawn will certainly assist the housing industry. As a direct result of the Budget there will be more money for housing. The reduction of the prescribed asset ratio from 45 per cent to 40 per cent - 
The honourable member should read the document that has been incorporated in  Hansard  with his agreement. He is disagreeing with the banks. The information from the banks is that it will provide very much more money for housing in this financial yearnot in the far distance but in this financial year. Many people say that money is the problem. Through the Budget we are providing more money for housing. The industry can look ahead with confidence because through our economic policies we are creating the right conditions for the development in Australia of a healthy and stable housing industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department does not operate staff canteens. 
Radioactive Material at Hunters Hill  (Question No. 689) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department was involved in the examination of the extent to which the Commonwealth Government could assist the New South Wales Government in disposing of the contaminated material at Hunters Hill. The Minister for National Development announced the outcome of this examination when he issued a press statement on 28 June indicating that the Commonwealth was prepared to share with the New South Wales Government the cost of transportation, storage and final disposal of the contaminated material. The Minister also proposed to the New South Wales Minister for Health that officers of the New South Wales Health Commission consult with officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission with a view to bringing forward agreed recommendations jointly to both Governments on a suitable site and method of disposal of the contaminated material from Hunters Hill. 
See(l). 
Should any proposal come within the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and an Environmental Impact Statement is directed then it would be subject to the normal public review provisions of the Administrative Procedures under the Act. 
Income Tax: Expenditure on Social Security, Health and Education  (Question No. 1048) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Government has provided financial assistance for the maintenance of the national secretariats of a variety of non-government youth organisations for many years. The National Youth Council of Australia is one of the organisations so funded and it received grants-in-aid of $45,000 in each of the periods referred to. 
The information sought is not available from my Department and can be obtained from either the  President  of the National Youth Council of Australia,  Ms J.  Lee, or its Executive Director,  Ms F.  Lewis. The National Youth Council of Australia 's address is: 23 Clarendon Street, East Melbourne, Victoria 3002. 
Executive members of the National Youth Council of Australia do not represent organisations. Clause 14. 1 8 of the Constitution of the National Youth Council of Australia states that upon assuming office to the National Executive, all persons shall cease to act as representatives of any member organisations. Under Clause 1 4. 1 9 member organisations whose representatives become members of the National Executive shall appoint new representatives to Council. Division Committee Chairmen represent those State or Territorial Youth Councils appointed to act as Divisional Committees of the National Youth Council of Australia. I am informed that the existing Divisional Committees are: the Association of Youth Organisations of New South Wales; the Youth Council of Queensland; the Youth Council of Tasmania; the Youth Council of Victoria; and  the W.A. Association of Voluntary Youth 
Organisations. 
I am informed that clauses 6.0 and 7.0 of the National Youth Council of Australia 's Constitution specify that: 
Membership of the National Youth Council of Australia is open to: 
National Youth Organisations; 
Other National Organisations which have a substantial youth participation; 
State or Territorial Youth Councils appointed to act as Divisional Committees of the National Youth Council of Australia; and 
Other Associations and Councils of young people. 
b ) Associate membership is open to: 
Individuals who are interested in youth affairs and the work of the National Youth Council of Australia and agree to contribute annually a fee to be determined by the Council; and 
Trusts, Organisations and Institutions including government, commercial and educational, not eligible to become members but who are interested in youth affairs and the work of the National Youth Council of Australia and who contribute annually a fee to be determined by the Council. 
The National Youth Council of Australia's Annual Report for 1 977 lists the following member organisations: 
Association of Apex Clubs of Australia 
Australian Union of Students 
Baptist Youth Fellowship 
Australian Young Labor 
Girls Brigade Australia 
Inspect- Youth Environment Group 
Girls Comradeship 
Joint Board of Christian Education (Commission on Youth Work) 
Lutheran Youth of Australia 
National Council of Young Mens Christian Association of Australia 
National Young Christian Workers 
Order of Knights 
Plast Ukranian Youth Association of Australian 
Re-organised Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints 
Salvation Army 
Young Liberal Movement of Australia 
Young Women 's Christian Association of Australia 
The following bodies are listed as associate members: 
Australian Association of Youth Clubs 
Scout Association of Australia 
Youth Workers Association of Victoria 
The remaining information sought is not available from my Department, however, I would emphasise that Commonwealth assistance is made available to meet the administration costs associated with the maintenance of a national secretariat only. 
-The answer to the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition's question is as follows: 
The United States Government has ruled that chlorofluorocarbons may not be used as propellants in selfpressurised containers manufactured or packaged from IS December 1978. Exceptions to this rule have been made for a limited range of uses which have been classified as essential, and for which no substitute is available. 
These bans are being imposed because of scientific concern that chlorofluorocarbon gases may damage the stratospheric ozone layer with possible consequent adverse effects on human health and possible non-human biological and climatic impacts. 
The United States Government has acted mainly on the basis of studies by the National Academy of Science. Many scientific aspects of the theory are still uncertain and are subject to extensive worldwide research. 
The information available suggests that Austraiian production of chlorofluorocarbon gases rose from about 9.200 tonnes in 1970 to 16,000 tonnes in 197S, but has since declined. Of this production, approximately 70 per cent was used for aerosol propellants. About 58 per cent of the 126 million aerosol sprays produced in 1974 contained chlorofluorocarbons, but in recent years there has been a voluntary trend away from the use of these materials as propellants by manufacturers. 
My Department is keeping under review the results of studies on the possible effects of chlorofluorocarbons on the stratosphere. Several major international studies are in progress to determine the extent of any effects chlorofluorocarbons may have on the ozone layer. Australia is participating in a number of these international activities. Although the data becoming available indicates a trend to increasing concentrations of chlorofluorocarbons in the lower atmosphere, many questions about stratospheric processes, reactions and concentrations are unresolved. 
Recently the Australian Environment Council, with the strong support of the Commonwealth Government, decided to establish a National Advisory Committee on Chemicals to assess the environmental effects of a wide range of substances. This national body will work in close consultation with established Government, industry and research groups. Chlorofluorocarbons are likely to be one of the chemicals whose environmental effects will be evaluated by the Committee. Should the evidence indicate that chlorofluorocarbons are of concern it would recommend appropriate control measures to the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
-The answer to the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The NEAC Report was referred to VENSAC by the 27th meeting of the Australian Environment Council's Standing Committee, held on 3 and 4 May 1978. 
The VENSAC advice is at present still being finalised, and I am hopeful that it will be considered by the next meeting of the Environment Council. 
I understand that VENSAC has drawn upon a range of material from the National Health and Medical Research Council, the motor and petroleum industries, and overseas studies into the effectiveness of lead catchment devices, but I will not be able to provide detailed information on these sources until VENSAC has completed its task. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs and seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
This Committee of Inquiry was established in June 1977. Its terms of reference, which were unanimously supported by the States, covered the whole process of the provision of housing, from initial land assembly and planning to the point of acquisition by the consumer. Its establishment arose out of the Government 's concern that the rapid increase in housing costs had been a major factor in limiting the community's access to housing. The Government was also aware that cost pressures had exacerbated the problems of the land development and dwelling construction industries. The Government decided the housing cost problem required urgent and comprehensive study so that each level of government, industry and the financial institutions might be advised on how to fulfill their proper responsibilities in the efficient provision of housing. 
The Committee comprised  Mr Ernest  Eyers, O.B.E.,  Chairman,  previously a senior officer of the Reserve Bank and inaugural  Chairman  of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation,  Mr Keith  Campbell, C.B.E.,  Chairman  and Chief Executive of the Hooker Corporation and  Mr Ken  Taeuber, Director-General of the South Australian Department of Lands and  Chairman  of the South Australian Land Commission. 
The Committee's exhaustive investigations represent one of the most comprehensive national reviews ever undertaken of factors affecting housing costs. The Committee is to be congratulated on its report. It deserves the closest attention by all spheres of government and by the industries concerned. The Committee has called for public discussion of the report and for the Commonwealth and the States to review many of their programs in the light of its recommendations. For its part the Commonwealth will be subjecting its programs to the closest scrutiny and will also take every opportunity to discuss the report in intergovernmental and government-industry consultative bodies. We will welcome comment from members of the industry and the community before considering what action we at the Commonwealth level might be able to take. To facilitate this consultative process the Government has invited the three Committee members to take a role in the follow-up process. The Committee will be available to discuss the report with Ministers, local government and industry representatives in each State over the next few months. The effective follow-up to the report depends on both commitment and co-operation from all participants in the housing process. 
The wide-ranging nature of the housing costs problem means that solutions can only partly be found at Commonwealth level. As the report indicates, all levels of government and industry have a major part to play in coming to grips with housing costs. I can assure honourable members that the Commonwealth will not shirk its responsibilities. We will establish an interdepartmental committee comprising my Department, the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury, Finance, Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission to examine possible Commonwealth action. Other departments and authorities will participate in working party examination of particular issues and will be included in the IDC for discussion of these matters. 
Many recommendations of the Committee would involve Commonwealth-State discussions. Other recommendations are specifically State matters. For example, recommendation 2 suggests that each State should establish a ministerial portfolio responsible for the full urban and housing policy functions. Again, recommendation 3 suggests that each State appoint a Director of Land Supply who would report to that Minister. Another major recommendation is that each State should undertake a review of the planning, approval and development processes for new residential land development and for redevelopment. Very serious consideration would have to be given to the Committee's recommendation that developer contributions for head works and area contributions and contributions for amplification of services and off-site drainage and like schemes, be removed. In some areas where the Commonwealth can act independently, I have already taken action. 
The Committee has as its first recommendation that the Commonwealth should expand its research on forecasting land and housing demand. I have already instructed my Department to expand its activities in this area. On other recommendations I hope that the interdepartmental committee, which I have said would be established, will report early enough for me to be in a position to report to Parliament early in the new year on our progress. Apart from its comprehensive recommendations, the Committee has drawn together in its report and associated papers a wealth of information. For example the Committee clearly shows that the vast majority of Australians aspire to own rather than rent their homes. They also favour a detached house on their own block of land. 
In commenting generally on the Committee's report, I found it interesting to note that the inquiry did not recommend large scale introduction of land commission programs to stabilise land prices. The Committee stated that such schemes should be considered in the particular circumstances of the State. While it recommended that a Director of Land Supply be appointed to co-ordinate and facilitate private and public sector activities and to monitor the supply of and demand for land into the future, this is low-key government intervention. This level of intervention is in marked contrast to suggestions for large government spending programs. 
I am pleased to say that the information contained in the report demonstrates that in general terms the Government is on the right track. I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to the table on page 47 of the report which gives the cost of house and land for a typical 110 square metre home in Sydney. In 1974-75 prices were increasing at a rate of 12 per cent per annum. This has now been slowed to 7.7 per cent per annum. This indicates that whilst there is still some way to go, significant advances have already been made by this Government on slowing the rate of increase in housing costs. I refer honourable members to the table on page 133 which shows the benefits to home owners from reductions in interest rates. As we know this Government is determined to get interest rates down. The table shows that a one percentage point reduction in the rate of interest would mean that monthly repayments on a typical $30,000 house paid off over a period of 25 years could be reduced by $ 1 5 a month. The Commonwealth Government is determined to bring the cost of land purchase, house construction and low loan repayment back within the reach of all Australians who aspire to home ownership. This report adds a new dimension to that endeavour. 
To sum up, it is a comprehensive and thorough report. In all it has 36 recommendations, and in addition many other suggestions are contained within the text. They invite action on the part of the Commonwealth, the States and local government as well as the private sector. Whilst much can be done by individual authorities and by each level of government, I agree with the Committee that significant progress will be achieved only if governments can act together and in a way that fosters co-operation with the private sector. I again congratulate  Mr Eyers  and his Committee on the excellent job they have done and commend the report to the House. I present the following paper: 
Committee of Inquiry into Housing Costs- Ministerial Statement, 19 September 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The terms and conditions specified by the Minister in his letter of 15 August 1975 to the Theatre Royal Board were- 
The payment of this grant will be made by reimbursement of expenditure incurred direct from my Department, on the production of appropriate certification. 
This certification must include: a statement that the purpose and conditions of the grant have been complied with; statements of expenditure on the project, supported by vouchers or accompanied by an audit certificate given by a qualified public accountant who is not an officer or employee of your organisation; a copy of your most recent annual report and subsequent copies during the construction of your project. 
While there is no limitation on the number of progress payments you may seek from my Department, we would generally expect them to be received at quarterly intervals. 
Since this grant is provided from funds appropriated by the Australian Government to assist with the provision of leisure facilities, I require your assurance that the project, when completed will be used for the purpose stated in your grant application. Any proposal to vary the use of the facility during the next five years must be cleared with my Department.' 
$193,475.53. 
The building has not been completed. The Theatre Royal Board has proceeded with construction of the building in three stages. The Commonwealth Government grant relates to the first stage of construction. I am informed that scheduling for completion of stages two and three has not been finalised by the Theatre Board. 
I am informed that recent reassessment of the project indicates the approximate total cost of stages two and three would be$480,000. The estimated final cost would therefore be approximately $700,000. 
No further Commonwealth assistance can be made available for this project. Since December 1975, grants under the Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities Program have been limited to existing commitments. There have been extensive discussions at officer level and I have corresponded with the appropriate Minister in Tasmania in regard to the project; what the Tasmanian Government will do in respect to this project is, of course, a matter for that Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following action has been taken in accordance with the Administrative Procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act before Thursday, 17 August 1978: 
Pancontinental Mining Limited was designated as proponent of the proposed action by the Department of the Northern Territory on 28 September 1 977. 
Pancontinental Mining Limited submitted initial information under paragraph 2.1 of the Administrative Procedures on 27 January 1 978. 
I directed the preparation and submission to me of an environmental impact statement in relation to this proposal on 13 February 1978. 
The draft environmental impact statement was released for public review from 30 May to 30 June 1978. 
Nine public comments were received by my Department and forwarded to the Company to be taken into account in the preparation of a final environmental impact statement 
The final environmental impact statement was submitted to my Department on 25 July 1978. 
My Department conducted an examination of the final environmental impact statement in accordance with paragraph 9. 1 of the Administrative Procedures. 
These recommendations are a matter between myself and my Department and would not normally be made public. 
See (2). 
Yes, I have received representations from a number of groups in Western Australia-when I was in Perth, here in Canberra and also recently in Melbourne when a lady made an approach to me. There are two proposals on the bauxite issue in the West. One is the Wagerup proposal by Alcoa of Australia Ltd to mine and refine bauxite. The other is the Worsley proposal by a group of companies- Alwest Pty Ltd, Dampier Mining Co. Ltd and Reynolds Australia Alumina Ltd. Both of these proposals come within the Commonwealth legislation and the Commonwealth officers of my Department are working very closely in association with the Western Australian officers to determine what impact these proposals might have on the environment. I must say that the officers of the Commonwealth and the Western Australian department are working very closely together and it is pleasing to see this sort of co-operation. 
As far as the Wagerup proposal is concerned, the public review period is over and Alcoa is preparing its final impact statement taking into account the public comment that has been already received. As far as the other project is concerned, there is a 56-day period for public comment which has run from 22 August and which I think concludes on 16 October of this year. When that public review period is over, of course the company will be required to take into account public comment that has been received from various people who are interested in the proposal. Ultimately a final impact statement will be prepared both under the Federal legislation and under the Western Australian administrative provisions. It certainly is too early to determine the Government's attitude to the environmental impact statement which is being prepared. However, I want to say that if the Government should at any stage be considering an inquiry under the arrangements that have been agreed upon between the Western Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government it would be necessary for me to consult with the Western Australian Minister on that issue. At this stage I want to make it clear to the honourable member that I have not seen fit for obvious reasons to consult with the Western Australian Minister on that issue. 
-in reply-I will respond very briefly and perhaps indicate at the outset to the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  that I will certainly be taking up his offer in the very near future. I want to thank all of those honourable members who have spoken in this debate. I appreciate their useful contributions. I think that they have all made serious, sensible speeches. All honourable members who have spoken have shown obvious interest in the Great Barrier Reef and its preservation. I have noted a number of the points that have been made and I will certainly be referring those to the Authority for suitable action to be taken on them and for full consideration to be given to them. I mention particularly the excellent speech made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Johnston). His  speech was a very sound one. Although he is not a Queenslander, he has shown a particular interest in this subject, the Reef itself and this amending Bill. 
I want to comment briefly on one or two points made by honourable members opposite. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  criticised the Queensland Government and in particular the Premier of Queensland, I think, very unfairly and unreasonably. I place on record the very real assistance and encouragement that has been provided by the Queensland Government in the operations of the Authority and also in the operations of the consultative committee. The Queensland Government is right behind these bodies and is assisting us as much as it possibly can. Of course, the Queensland Government has a very real interest in this subject. I want to remove one suspicion expressed by the honourable member for Griffith in his speech. He suggested that perhaps the Government is changing the qualifications provision of the Bill to suit a particular applicant whom it might have in mind. I assure him that the Government has no-one in mind at this stage. It is waiting for this provision to be enacted before it seeks applications. There is no particular person in mind. The Government will be seeking a suitable person to take on the position of  Chairman.  At the moment there is an Acting  Chairman  in that position. 
A number of other issues were raised. Some do not need answering; other perhaps do. I should make a comment on the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  I do not believe that it is a sound amendment. I think that it ignores the purpose of the amendment that the Government has presented to the House. We want to remove the uncertainty. The provision that is suggested in the amendment proposed by the honourable member does not remove that uncertainty. The term 'the environmental sciences' is an uncertain term in its form. Again it limits the field. 
I appreciate the spirit in which it has been advanced by the honourable member, but I think that it would only compound the problem. Really it is not helpful and does not solve the issues. 
The question of oil drilling has been raised. I want to make one or two brief points on that matter also. Oil drilling certainly will not be permitted in the region of the Great Barrier Reef until full and proper consideration has been given by the Government to the report of the royal commission into exploratory and production drilling for petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. That report was handed down in 1974. A considerable amount of work has been done since then although I must point out that the matter is not now presently before the Government. We will not rush into this subject. Consultations are taking place between the relevant departments and the Government's scientific advisers, including the Australian Science and Technology Council. At some time in the future an appropriate course of action will be recommended to the Government. Of course no decision will be taken without full and proper consultation with the Queensland Government. Any decision that is made in due course will be subject to the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. We will certainly not permit any activity to take place on the Reef which will in any sense endanger it. 
The question was asked: What progress has been made in actually declaring this marine park? Of course it is essential that an area must be specified in any proclamation. That provision is required by section 31. Prior to proclamation a report must be submitted to the Executive Council by the Authority. That is required by subsection (5) of section 31. One of the problems that we have had concerns the defect which existed in the prior legislation which was promulgated in 1975 whereby the region itself was not closed off effectively. The advice that we received from legal advisers was that in fact we had no region. So it was essential that we covered that problem and that defect. That will be done when this legislation is passed. A report and a draft proclamation for the Capricornia sector of the park only awaits the passage of this legislation. (Quorum  formed). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom,  on behalf of  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 28 September 1 978. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have not yet received a copy of that report. I expect to receive one in due course. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  again suggested the old panacea to solve all of our housing problems- spend, spend, spend. Where do we get the money? Do we get it from taxpayers? Do we increase taxes? This old remedy was tried between 1972 and 1975. It did not work then; it will not work now. I mention at the outset, before trying to explain sensibly what we are doing in the housing field, that I have some doubt about the genuineness of the honourable member for Reid in his suggested support for the private sector of the building industry. He is indicating that he is the champion of the private sector. I refer the House to a statement in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 6 June this year. During the New South Wales Labor Party Conference, the honourable member is reported as having said: 
Speaking as a person, as a socialist, I would find it immoral to buy a share in a private company that is going to exploit labour. Whenever a company is going to make a profit then it is exploiting labour. 
The honourable member is saying on the one hand that he is concerned for the private sector of the building industry and that he wants to see the industry develop and on the other hand he is saying that is is totally opposed to all profit. I ask: How can he give some incentive to the private sector to build houses if it is not allowed to make any profit? Therefore I have some concern about the genuineness of the honourable member's motives in speaking as he has today and suggesting that he supports the private sector of the building industry. 
Let me explain what the Government is doing for housing in Australia and, in particular, public housing. One important decision that we made this year has been overlooked. We initiated the Housing Assistance Act and under it have provided a new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. The Agreement contains a number of quite important changes from previous agreements and, I suggest, important improvements on previous agreements and especially on the one that existed between 1973 and 1974. The new Agreement gives the States more flexibility to direct welfare funding to those in real need and to those who can best use those funds. It gives the States general flexibility. 
It is important to recognise that we are dealing with welfare housing, with public housing. We do not want to direct money to those who are not in need. The problem with previous agreements, and in particular the agreement which existed between 1973 and 1974 and which was supported by the then Labor Administration, was that a significant proportion of money available for welfare housing went to people who did not need it. A lot of the money went to people who had a house, a boat, a large motor vehicle, a beach house, other significant assets and incomes of $400 to $500 a week. Those people exist and have existed for a long time in housing subdivisions around Australia. 
A significant number. The changes made to the Agreement were supported by the Labor States. I think that should be recognised. The Labor States in the recent past realised that it was not correct to direct funds provided by the general body of taxpayers to those people who were not in need. It is an important principle in the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement that money should be directed to those in real need. The money is provided by the taxpayers of this country for those people who are in need; therefore it should not go to the well-to-do in the community. 
Three sources of funding are available for public housing in this country: Firstly, Commonwealth advances directed from the Commonwealth; secondly, internally generated funds of State instrumentalities operated under the program; and, thirdly, direct State Government contributions. Under the Commonwealth advance in 1978-79 we will be providing $330m for public housing; some $3 16m of that amount comprises advances under the Agreement I have mentioned. An amount of $ 14m will be provided in grants for rental housing assistance to pensioners. The amount of $3 16m is, in fact, lower than the $390m which was advanced in 1977-78, but the important thing to realise is that that amount is more than offset by the revolving funds which have been produced from advances made by the Commonwealth. That is a fact that I believe has been deliberately ignored by the honourable member for Reid in making his comments on this occasion and on previous occasions. Perhaps, in fairness to him, I should say that he has not appreciated the significance of this point. A substantial amount of additional money over and above the base amount provided by the Commonwealth is available for welfare housing in Australia in the current financial year. 
Pensioner housing funds have increased from $ 10m in 1977-78 to $ 14m in 1978-79. That is an increase of 40 per cent. Why was that increase not mentioned? It is a significant increase in the funds being provided to needy pensioners for their housing. That was not mentioned. It is an important fact. In 1974, for example, $5m was provided. We have increased the amount recently from $10m to $14m. The internally generated funds are derived from the rental and sales policies of the housing authorities and surpluses accruing in the revolving funds of the State home builders accounts. As a direct result of the new policies introduced in the Agreement which I have mentioned- an initiative by the present Government- concerning sales, rents and home purchase assistance, these funds will increase considerably. 
I shall indicate the estimates that have been provided by the State authorities. These figures must be noted. They are probably conservative figures for sales and rental operations and the surpluses flowing from those operations. Honourable members should look at these figures and note them. They are important. In 1977-78, $79m was the amount provided in this area. In 1978-79 that amount has been increased to $ 1 1 8m. Why was that significant increase not mentioned? The revolving funds, which accrue from advances the Commonwealth has provided for home purchase assistance, have increased from $59m in 1977-78 to $69m in 1978-79. Honourable members should look at the total amounts provided for sales and rental operations and home purchases. In 1977-78 the total amount was $138m. In 1978-79 it is $187m. Therefore, we are looking at an increase of $49m in funds which flow directly from assistance provided by the Commonwealth. That is an increase of 36 percent. 
The honourable member says 'Baloney'. I suggest that he look at the figures, study them and try to understand the subject. These figures are accurate. They are the estimates provided by the States themselves. The honourable member should check with the States and see what they say. 
I will get to that in a moment. It is difficult to know exactly to what extent the States have contributed to public housing in the past. We believe that in 1977-78 an amount of $23.2m was provided for CSHA purposes. The important thing is- this will answer the honourable member's question- that, with the increase of 10.8 per cent in general revenue funds under the tax sharing arrangements, States are well placed to increase their efforts in this area. 
We do not look just at the base figure. We look also at the matching figure, the revolving funds and the general revenue funds available to the States. We believe that there is clearly an opportunity for the States, if they so desire, to increase the funds flowing to welfare housing in Australia. Under arrangements with the States they will not be formally advising the Commonwealth of the extent of their contributions, but informal advice which has been received suggests that all the funds available will be allocated. It is up to the States to apportion the $130m that they themselves will be contributing by way of matching grants. Some States- for example, Victoriahave indicated that they will be increasing their contribution to public housing in this financial year. In taking into account the funds being provided by the Commonwealth, Victoria has indicated that it will be increasing its contribution to public housing in this financial year. That flies in the face of everything the honourable member for Reid has said so far. 
Let me go through a summary of funding for the benefit of honourable members. In 1977-78 the Commonwealth base contribution was $400m. No matching funds were provided by the Commonwealth in 1977-78. Matching funds will be provided in the current financial year. Internally generated funds of $ 138m were available in 1977-78. Other identified State funds, such as those flowing from the CSHA, amounted to $23m. Additional State funded programs in the area of welfare housing amounted to $60m. That was a total of $621m in 1977-78. In 1978-79 there has been an increase in the amount provided. A Commonwealth base contribution of $200m is provided in the current financial year. 
The matching fund- a new developmentprovides $ 130m. The internally generated funds are $ 187m. The States will be taking up their full matching allocation in identified State funds of $130m. That makes a total of $647m, which is an increase of $26m on the funds provided and available in the last financial year. Honourable members should analyse those figures. Where is the cutback? It does not exist. The States have an opportunity to provide at least the same level of activity in welfare housing in the current financial year as they provided in the last financial year. 
I think it is worth while to compare the approach taken by the present Government with that taken by the present Opposition when it was in government. In 1 956 the then Liberal-Country Party Government introduced a home ownership assistance plan for low income earners through the home builders account. This was to give low income earners an opportunity that did not previously exist to buy their own homes. We as a government want to encourage these low income earners and to give them the opportunity to purchase their own homes. That is why we have written a special provision into the current Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement to encourage the States to allocate more of their funds to home ownership. Previously there was a limit of 30 per cent on funds flowing to home ownership. Now there is no limit; we have taken it away. This indicates the concern we have that people on low incomes should have the opportunity that other people in the community have to purchase their own homes. 
We have introduced this Agreement in 1978. It has not been fully recognised by the Opposition as an important advance and reform in this area. It will assist home ownership and will ensure an adequate stock of rental housing. It will gear assistance to need. That is very important. The money available will be directed to those in need so that more people in real need will be assisted this financial year than were assisted last financial year. It is quite wrong of the Opposition to paint deliberately a false picture of the very real support that is being provided by this Government for welfare housing. As I said, the funds available should at least equal those provided by the Commonwealth last year, so long as the States play their part and co-operate in providing welfare housing. 
I move: 
That the report of the Legislation Committee be adopted. 
I remind the House that the Legislation Committee agreed to the Bill without amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I will not delay the House for any great length of time, but I do want to respond to the very brief remarks made earlier by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  about the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I point out to the honourable member that it is a long-standing courtesy that is respected by members of this House for an honourable member who wishes to raise an issue such as this to give notice to the Minister concerned so that the Minister can come along fully equipped to explain the situation to the House and to the honourable member concerned. The honourable member for Batman said in his brief remarks that the Department that I head as Minister is in the process of being disbanded. I want to lay that lie to rest. There is no such intention on the part of the Government. Certainly it is recognised by the Department and its officers that it is for the Government to determine the priorities of departments. The letter which was mentioned by the honourable member and which was written by  Mr Lansdown,  the Secretary of the Department, recognised that fact. All the people in the Department recognise that it is for the Government to determine priorities. 
This Department, of which I am very proud, employs a great number of decent, hardworking, loyal public servants. They are very dedicated people who are doing a great job in the national interest. The Department is administering many programs which are recognised by the Government as important programs. Those programs will certainly continue. I simply take this opportunity- I thank the honourable member for giving it to me- to commend the Secretary of the Department,  Mr Lansdown,  and the Director of Environment,  Mr Higgs,  as well as  Mr Butler  and all the other officers of the Department for all the very good work that they are doing. Admittedly, because of changes in priorities and changes in numbers within the Department, they are working under difficult circumstances. I recognise that and the Government recognises it. Public servants are often maligned, as politicians are often maligned. I think it is a good thing if sometimes we stand up and express appreciation for the work being done by these people. For example, a number of officers of my Department had to work until 4 o 'clock this morning on a particular problem. The number of hours worked overtime by senior officers of departments is incredibly high. Again, that is cause for members of the Government saying that we appreciate the sort of work being done. 
I would like to be able to go through all of the programs being conducted by the Department, which are important. A great deal of work is being done in the building and housing area and in the area of the environment. In many areas more money is being spent than has been spent previously. Recent decisions have been made in relation to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, the Australian Heritage Commission and the National Estate. Much work is being done in the area of local government in an advisory capacity. In the area of national parks and wildlife we have established the Kakadu National Park and the Uluru National Park in the Northern Territory. There has been comment recently that we are not spending much on sport, but never before has as much been spent in dollar terms on sport and recreation in this country as is being spent at present. Just the other day we announced a grant of $ 1.33m, which represents an increase of 3316 per cent on the allocation for the previous year. That has not been recognised. That point might have been made by the honourable member. In the area of youth, a lot of good work is being done in the Office of Youth Affairs. Much good work is being done on the uranium issue by the Supervising Scientist. The same applies to many other areas. 
I simply say that we do appreciate that this work is being done and being done well by officers of the Department. The Department certainly will continue to operate. At the moment I am in the process of looking at the role of the Department with a view to dealing with some of the uncertainties that have been raised in recent Press reports. I think it is important that those uncertainties be removed so that the officers of the Department can continue to go from strength to strength in the work that they are doing in the national interest. 
House adjourned at 11.5 p.m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Officers of my Depanment have not assisted in the planning of any meetings with the Northern Land Council local Aboriginal people and Queensland Mines Ltd in order to explain the Nabarlek project draft environmental impact statement. Officers have met with the  Chairman  and staff of the NLC to discuss submissions lodged by the Council on the draft environmental impact statement. The mining company was not involved in this meeting. 
See(l). 
No. 
See(l)and(3). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Officers of my Department have not assisted in the planning of any meetings with the Northern Land Council, local Aboriginal people and Pancontinental Mining Company in order to explain the Jabiluka draft environmental impact statement. Officers have met with the  Chairman  and staff of the NLC to discuss submissions lodged by the Council on the draft environmental impact statements. The mining company was not involved in this meeting. 
See(l). 
No. 
See(l)and(3). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) Primary responsibility for energy policy, including solar energy, rests with the Minister for National Development and I note that a similar question has been directed to that Minister. 
No studies of the type described have been carried out by, or on behalf of, my Department but I am aware of the general environmental benefits of appropriate use of renewable energy resources. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to (4) Primary responsibility for energy policy, including energy conservation, rests with the Minister for National Development and I note that a similar question has been directed to that Minister. 
No studies of the type described have been carried out by, or on behalf of my Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Utah Development Corporation acquired an interest in the El Sherana mining tenements in 1971. Pan of this interest has been recently transferred to Utah Mining (Australia) Ltd. 
The Northern Territory rnining legislation does not require leaseholders to notify drilling intentions on mining tenements. No information has been received by the Northern Territory Department of Mines and Energy concerning drilling operations. 
The El Sherana mining tenements are located within the Gimbat pastoral lease. 
The Northern Territory Government has written to the Government requesting a review of the acquisition of the fee-simple interest in land which includes the Gimbat and Goodparla pastoral leases. 
Workshop on Environmental Studies in the Alligator Rivers Region (Question No. 1898) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The purpose of the Workshop was to discuss in detail the component parts of a comprehensive research program aimed at providing the environmental baseline data necessary for defining practical and effective monitoring programs in the Region. The participants represented a range of relevant disciplines and included those who are working or had worked in the area, and those who had submitted or had indicated an interest in submitting, proposals for research and monitoring programs in the Region. Participants were invited because of their expertise in specific disciplines. Because of this the Supervising Scientist did not feel it appropriate to invite representatives from the Australian Conservation Foundation or from the Northern Territory Environment Council. 
As the mining companies are responsible for a number of important research and monitoring programs, their environmental officers were present at the Workshop. 
No. The Supervising Scientist has a duty to report on his activities to the Minister and these reports are to be tabled in the Parliament. Copies are also to be sent to the appropriate Minister of the Northern Territory Government, following tabling. 
Departmental Contacts with Non-English speaking Persons  (Question No. 1905) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been made aware of public comments made both for and against the tourist resort proposal. 
and (3) Yes; the finalisation was affected by an addendum which has been distributed to my Department and to all individuals and public and private agencies who made comments on the draft EIS. Other interested persons may obtain a copy of the addendum from the Company. 
The addendum examines and provides responses to the public comment made on the draft EIS. Among the major issues re-examined in response to public comment in the addendum are: 
Physical Environment issues, including beach protection, pest control and wetland preservation, engineering issues, including water supply, drainage and sewage treatment, socio-economic issues, including employment and social considerations. 
Commonwealth Funding of Voluntary Agencies assisting Refugees  (Question No. 1938) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) It was established on 22 February 1977 and first met on 2 June 1977. 
(a) and (b) The Task Group is a co-ordinating mechanism which exists to ensure proper inter-departmental consultations in the development of new policy proposals or proposed changes to existing programs which bear significantly on Government service to youth. As such it has no specific program responsibilities. 
Five. 
Departments represented on the Task Group are Environment, Housing and Community Development (Chair), Aboriginal Affairs, Education, Employment and Industrial Relations, Finance, Health, Home Affairs (Office of Women's Affairs), Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Prime Minister and Cabinet and Social Security. In each case representation is at senior third and/or second division level. 
The Task Group has commissioned various studies of aspects of youth unemployment and the school to work transition process, with particular reference to the problems of special groups of young people in the labour market and to the question of the social impact of unemployment. The studies, which are still proceeding, are being undertaken in conjunction with appropriate Departments and agencies and will take note of relevant research produced by committees of inquiry, academic institutions et cetera. 
Design Rules for Access by Disabled Persons to new Buildings  (Question No. 1961) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Homes Savings Grant Act 1976 applies in respect of persons acquiring their first homes on and from 1 January 1977. 
During the period 1 January 1977 to 14 September 1978- 
87,3 19 applications were received 
b) 72,099 applications were approved 
2,058 applications were not eligible 
13,162 applications were on hand at 14 September 1978 
Statistics on the matital status of applicants are available up to 30 June 1978- 
5,497 were from sole male applicants 
3,553 were from sole female applicants 
41,362 were from married couples 
6,744 were from engaged couples 
1,081 were from 2 or more applicants, not in the above categories. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2090) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's Budget Speech and accompanying statements. 
No. 
The effective date for determination is the prescribed date as defined in the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976. In general, this is the date the applicant contracted for the purchase or construction of the home. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Office of the Supervising Scientist presently has five (5) staff members, together with three  (3)  officers on loan from other departments. 
None of the staff is presently employed within the Public Service research scientists employment category. To date the environmental research activities of the Supervising Scientist have been undertaken by research consultants. These consultants are in the main employed by tertiary education bodies and other government instrumentalities. 
The Office of the Supervising Scientist has an approved staff ceiling of 20 for the 30 June 1 979. 
Environmental Monitoring of the Alligator Rivers Region  (Question No. 2153) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The names, qualifications and fields of expertise of the members of the Group of Experts as presently constituted are as follows: 

 Mr C. S. Christian, C.M.G., B.Sc. Agr., M.S.,  Hon.  D. Sc. Agr. Qld, F.T.S., F.A.I.A.S. Field of Expertise: Ecology. 

 Mr D. R. Davy, B. Sc. (Hons), Dip. Env. Stud. Field of Expertise: Water Quality, Health Physics. 

 Dr B. T. Hart, B. Se (Hons), Ph.D., Dip. APR Chem. Dip. Chem. Eng., T.T.T.C., F.R.A.C.1. Field of Expertise: Water Quality, Aquatic Chemistry. 

 Mr R. E. Morrison, B.E., M.E., Dip. Eng. Hyd., Dip. C. Eng., M.I.E. Aust., M.A.W.W.A. Field of Expertise: Hydrology. 

 Dr J. F. Skidmore, B.Sc, M.Sc, Ph.D, F.Z.S., M.I. Biol. Field of Expertise: Bioassay, Fish Toxicity. 

 Dr P. A. Tyler, B.Sc. (Hons.), Ph.D. Field of Expertise: Botany. 
Professor W. D. Williams, D.Sc. Field of Expertise: Zoology. 
Professor P. C. Young, B. Tech., M.Sc, M.A., Ph.D., C. Eng., Whitworth Fellow, M.R.Ae.S., M.I.E.E., M.I. Mech. E. Field of Expertise: Hydrology, Water Quality Modelling Studies. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consultants working for the Supervising Scientist together with officers of the Northern Territory Department of Transport and Works, Water and Sewerage Division, are currently developing such a model. Considerable progress has already been made in relation to meteorological and hydrological aspects of the model. It is now possible to make reasonable predictions of the moovement of water throughout the Magela Creek system. Work has commenced on water quality modelling. Use will be made of water quality data already available, together with results of dye and radioisotope studies that have been carried out since early 1 976. 
No. Further work, involving the collection of new flow and water quality data, particularly in the -Magela floodplain, and the subsequent refinement of the existing model, is required before it will be available as a water management tool at the Ranger site. 
I present the official report of the Australian parliamentary delegation to Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave- In July of this year I had the honour to lead a delegation representing the two Houses of this Parliament to India and Sri Lanka. Because of commitments I had in Australia, regrettably I was not able to lead the delegation on its visit to Bangladesh. My colleague in the other chamber,  Senator Chaney,  assumed leadership of the delegation for its visit to that country. I express my gratitude to him for accepting this role at short notice. I am pleased to report to the House that all members of the delegation acted with great distinction throughout the tour. They were fine ambassadors not only for the Australian Parliament but also for those people they represent as members and senators and for the parties they represent. The members of the delegation were  Senator Chaney,  who has since been appointed Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator K.  J. Martin,  Senator E.  A. Robertson, the honourable member for Barton,  Mr J.  M. Bradfield, the honourable member for Bonython,  Dr N.  Blewett, and me, accompanied by my senior private secretary,  Mr Justin  Standwix.  Mr A.  J. F. McDonald, an officer of the Parliament, acted as secretary to the delegation. 
The delegation was both a fact finding and a goodwill mission. Its purpose was three-fold: To observe the political, social, economic and cultural circumstances of these countries and to develop a greater awareness of their implications; to see how aid from Australia was being used, to make contact with the people involved in aid projects and to study ways in which Australian aid can be most effective; and to further goodwill and friendly relationships with our neighbours, and, particularly, with parliamentary colleagues in the region. I believe that our report will show that the mission achieved its aim. It records observations made in the individual countries visited and sets out the recommendations of the delegates which will now be transmitted to appropriate Ministers and other responsible authorities for action. 
Throughout the visit we were received with every kindness and courtesy. On behalf of  Mr Speaker  I expressed the Parliament's thanks to the parliaments and governments of the host countries and to the various authorities, community organisations and commercial interests involved with our visit. I would also like to express our thanks to those who were responsible for the organisation of the visit, the heads of the Australian missions and their staffs in the countries visited, the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra and the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library which provided us with a very comprehensive brief. I also mention the sterling assistance and support provided by  Mr McDonald  during the tour and by  Mr Ferguson  prior to our departure. 
Finally, I wish to thank my colleagues of the delegation for their hard work and ready cooperation which ensured the success of this important mission. 
I would like to thank all honourable members who have contributed to the debate on the estimates for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I would like also to respond to some of the points that have been made. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  commenced the debate by making what I thought were some quite reasonable comments on sport and the involvement of government in sport. I commend him particularly for his comments on the importance of sport in preventive medicine, the importance of developing sport and having people involved in sport so that it will improve their health and thereby reduce health costs. I think that was a very worthwhile point. 
I do not think he was terribly fair about the contribution being made at the moment by the Government to sports development and the amount of funds being provided. He failed fairly to state the facts. This financial year we will be providing $ 1.33m, which is a 33 1/3 per cent increase on the amount provided in the previous financial year. In dollar terms it is the most that has ever been provided for sports development in this country. The honourable member spoke about $11m being provided during the Labor Government's term of office, but most of that money was provided not to sportsmen and sportswomen to develop theirskills but to constructing buildings- bricks and mortar. Certainly that is important but the States and local government can do that. I think that the role of the Federal Government is properly to develop our sporting skills and to encourage our sportsmen and sportswomen. Recently we announced the allocation to various sporting bodies throughout Australia of this $ 1.33m. Seventy-two sporting organisations will receive assistance this financial year. The grants include $562,700 for international competition and $382,000 for administration. 
The honourable member says that it is embarrassing; that it is not enough. It is important and it is recognised as important by the sporting bodies. It is helping them and providing them with a great deal of initiative and incentive, and they commend the Government. 
-They do commend the Government. Full time coaches and coaching projects will receive $237,600, research and information dissemination will receive $34,300 and other forms of sports development will receive $5,000. They are large amounts of money and that is appreciated by the sporting bodies concerned. The honourable member for Robertson made one interesting comment which I thought was a reflection upon the Labor Government 's approach to sport when he said- I think I am quoting him correctly- that he would not like it to be done in the ad hoc way it was done before. If honourable members read his speech they will see that it is really a comment upon the Labor Government's approach to sport. He was saying that it was an ad hoc approach. I think that underneath he was giving some credit to our approach to sport. Last year $1m was allocated to sport. It was a start. We have built on that. We have not wound down our sports program; we have built on it. We have increased it by 33 1/3 per cent. That is important and I think some credit should be given for it. 
The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  spoke about grants to conservation . organisations and mentioned the $350,000 that is being made available to conservation organisations. I thank him for his contribution. He made the point that this amount is being granted to unspecified conservation organisations. It is true to say that at present the bodies are unspecified but they will be specified quite soon. I have received advice from the Australian Heritage Commission and I am now in a position to allocate those funds. I would expect that quite soon I will be announcing the various allocations to the bodies concerned. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  made his usual speech on the subject of housing. He seems to think that the public sector is all-important and appears to disregard the private sector. He wants more and more money spent on public housing in Australia and does not give due regard to the private sector. 
It is interesting to note that 90 per cent of the funds provided for housing in Australia is provided by the private sector through the banks, building societies and other lending institutions, and from private sources. Only 10 per cent or thereabouts of those funds is provided as public funding. It is important to recognise that the more important sector to the future of housing and the financing of housing in Australia is the private sector. We are giving proper encouragement to an expansion of funding through the private sector and that must be recognised. The decision made to reduce the prescribed asset ratio from 45 per cent to 40 per cent is recognised by the housing industry, the banks and other lending institutions as an important decision which will result during this financial year in an increased flow to the housing industry and to the home buyer of funds required to purchase homes. Again, that was an important decision. 
The honourable member for Reid made the comment that we should be spending more on government departments, that we should build up the size of government in Canberra. I know that is his view but others would disagree with - him. There is no doubt that during the Labor Government's term of office a great deal of money was wasted in some of the programs which he encouraged. Many of them were important programs; many were great in theory but not great in practice. On any sensible and responsible assessment of the job he did when he was in office, one would say that many of the decisions made at that time were unsuccessful and many of the public resources used at that time were wasted. Of course, the people who pay are the taxpayers, the ordinary hard-working men and women of this country. I think we should have due regard to the fact that the money we spend as governments is not our own money; it is money earned through toil and effort by ordinary people in the community. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  was not critical of the Government, on my understanding of his comments. The member for Reid suggested he was, but he was not. Again, I think that if one reads his speech one will find that he was not critical of the Government. He made what I would believe to be a very constructive contribution in which he made some suggestions that are worthy of close consideration. He suggested a scheme to assist people, especially young people and those on limited incomes, to get into homes. He mentioned a national loan. I must say that I think there are problems with that sort of scheme. Nevertheless I will be pursuing it and discussing it further with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The matter has already been raised with us. I make the point that the honourable member for Bendigo is not a theorist; he is a person who has had a lot of experience in the building industry. He was in that industry for many years. He is a practical person. One cannot ignore that sort .of experience. One must take heed of the comments made by a person of his experience. I again thank him for his contribution. 
I think the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  made a disappointing contribution. He distorted the facts and figures, as he so often does. I must make that point. He is known as a fiddler of figures and he fiddled with figures on this occasion. I make the point that as far as funding under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is concerned there will be as much available to the States this year to fund welfare housing as there was last year, but it depends upon State effort. If the States make the effort and the contribution that I believe they will make, then in no sense will welfare housing suffer during this financial year. 
I mentioned the base figure of $ 186m and a matching figure of $ 130m. That means that the States will provide a matching figure of $ 130m. All the States have indicated that they will make the full matching contribution. Where the honourable member for Hughes has gone wrong is that he has ignored the revolving funds. I must point out to him that these funds are an important part of welfare housing funding in Australia. In this financial year the revolving funds, which he has ignored, will amount to something like $69m. If he adds that figure to the other figures he has mentioned he will come up with something like the right figure. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  made an excellent contribution to this debate, as he usually does. He spoke about the triangle concept of sports development. Those who heard him speak on the subject would appreciate that he displays a good deal of knowledge, common sense and understanding of sports development in Australia.  His  ideas are consistent with the ideas of the Government. We believe that we should encourage our top sportsmen and sportswomen and by encouraging them we will thereby encourage mass participation in sport by Australians. I think that is the point made by the honourable member for Darling Downs. He made an important point when he mentioned the downgrading of sport in the education system. We should look at this carefully as should educationists. It is not good that sport should be excluded from some schools, as I think is occurring in some areas. I think that sport should be given its proper place in schools and in the education system. I noted the other comments that were made by the honourable member for Darling Downs and certainly I will take those into account in the development of our sports policy in the future. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  question now is - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no point of order. I am about to put the question. The question is that the proposed expenditure - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Chifley will resume his seat. Does the honourable member for Hughes have a point of order? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Questions are out of order and you have no business to ask the Minister a question at this time. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Employment and Industrial Relations 
Proposed expenditure, $282,716,000. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The June 1979 ceiling for my Department, including the Australian Heritage Commission is 500 and this represents a reduction of 22.5 per cent on the 30 June 1978 staff level of 645. The question of general public service staff levels should be referred to the appropriate Minister. 
Yes. 
My Department is currently reviewing work priorities against the new staff ceiling. When this review is complete I will decide which activities will be reduced or eliminated. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1 974, 1 present the annual statement on the operation of that Act during the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable members ' question is as follows: 
Yes; yes. 
See(l). 
The honourable member will be aware that the initial survey required for the preparation of the impact statement would need to cover land on both sides of the centre line including, for example, streams and other features relevant to drainage considerations and it is possible some limited clearing may have been necessary in connection with the preparation of the EIS. I am advised that no work had commenced on actual construction of the extension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
750. 
(a) 12 August 1974; (b)$17.3m. 
(a) 700; (b) 50. 
Shops, storage, community purposes, craft centres and child care services. 
(a) 60 l;(b) 99 houses: 25 being rehabilitated; 10 rehabilitated awaiting occupation; 14 holding houses- temporarily vacant; 34 awaiting rehabilitation in 1 978-79 program; 1 7 uninhabitable. 
102. 
(a) $16,400 (2 bedroom); (b) $18,000 (3 bedroom); (c) $20,000 (4 bedroom). 
10 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tasmanian Government which is jointly responsible, with the City of Launceston, for the implementation of the Inveresk Urban Renewal Project, has provided the following information: 
1 ) Over 700 houses and various non-residential properties. 
To 30 June 1978; 9 houses and several small landholdings purchased for $305,000. 
Commonwealth Government provided- $2 1 5,000; State and local Government provided- $90,000. 
In addition other development works including construction of 18 new houses, street and landscape improvements cost $54 1 ,000. 
Commonwealth Government provided- $135,000; State and Local Government provided- $406,000. 
(a) 700; (b) unknown. 
Scrap metal yards, light industrial premises and warehouses. 
5 ) Of the 9 houses acquired: 
5 houses demolished and replaced by 18 new houses; 2 houses rehabilitated. 
b ) 2 houses being rehabilitated. 
2 houses. 
$2,500. 
4 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The urban renewal project contains: 
Commonwealth land and properties State and Sydney City Council land properties purchased privately other properties not purchased. 
By agreement the project involves Commonwealth, State and Local Government planning of a wide area. The NSW 
Housing Commission is responsible for implementation of the project. 2 1 7 private properties have been acquired to date. 
The cost of the project is unknown as recent High Court of Australia decisions on appeals against compensation requires new valuations for unsettled claims. 
The Commonwealth Government provided: $14m for land acquisition $3.0m for site development and planning 2.6 ha of land (valued at $ 1 lm in 1 975 ). 
The State and local Government provided 7.5 ha of land. 
) Of the 2 1 7 private properties acquired (a ) 1 68; ( b ) 49. 
Shops, service stations, industrial and vacant land. 
(a) 82; (b) 86. 
14. 
$16,600. 
30 weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
120 buildings in the Emerald Hill Estate, 8 private houses, Court House, Post Office and South Melbourne City Council Chambers. 
(a) $3.5m for the Emerald Hill Estate; (b) Commonwealth Government loan funds provided under the Lund Commission (Financial Assistant) Act 1973. 
(a) 59 houses, 43 units above shops; (b) 6 1 . 
Shops, warehouse and an industrial building. 
Of the 59 houses-(a) 53; (b) 6. 
Of the 43 units above shops-(a) 22; (b)21. 
1 shop, with 2 bedroom unit above. 
$38,000 ($20,000 for the unit). 
16 weeks. 
Cotton Pest Control: Alternatives to DDT (Question No.  2264) 
-I thank the honourable member for Wilmot for his question. Yes, I did notice the report in this morning's Press of a letter which  Mr Dixon  apparently has written to me on this subject of our involvement in sport. With respect to  Mr Dixon,  I must say that I do not think he has given due credit to this Government for its sports development program which was a new initiative commenced last financial year. I think it is worth noting that no similar sports development program was established by the previous Labor Government. The allocation for sports development in this financial year is $ 1.33m. It is worth noting that that is a 33'/4 per cent increase on the allocation of last year. Under this program at the present time we are assisting more than 70 sporting associations around Australia. We are assisting with international competition, with various coaching programs and are employing a number of administrators of various sports. In fact at present there are 14 full time directors of sports around Australia who are funded by this sports development program. As a matter of interest, on 23 and 24 November we will be bringing these people together in Canberra for a seminar at which they will look at the problems faced by various sports. I am sure that that seminar will assist them to develop their sports. 
In some quarters there seems to be a trend towards absolute and total reliance upon the Government for financing sports. I do not think that that is necessarily a very healthy trend. Initiative has to be displayed by the sports themselves in managing their own affairs and in raising their funds. There is no doubt that governments have a key role to play and there is no doubt that money is important. I do not disregard that. But the sports themselves, through their administrators and their supporters, have a role to play and the State governments themselves have a role to play in this funding issue. The sports development program is only one of a number of ways in which we are helping sport and recreation around Australia. We are helping through the 'Life. Be in it' program; $600,000 is being made available under that program. Also, $2.5m is being paid to the Queensland Government this financial year to assist it in completing its facilities for the 1982 Commonwealth Games. As well as that, $340,000 is being made available for life saving. I think the House should note that as a Federal Minister I am now spending more money in dollar terms on sports development than has any previous Minister in any previous government. 
-That is right. If the honourable member checks the facts he will see that it is right; it is not nonsense. There is one way in which the Commonwealth and the States can join together to give a very real boost to sport in Australia, and that would be through a jointly conducted national sports lottery, if this could be arranged between the various governments. I think this suggestion has a great deal of merit. I know that  Mr Dixon  is not terribly enthusiastic about this idea. 
It is certainly pleasing to hear the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  at last speak on an environmental issue. He commenced his speech by making some personal attacks on individuals. I think that he should perhaps question his performance in his shadow portfolio and ask himself whether he has been sufficiently active. Since he has had the job he has been almost totally silent on environmental issues. I know that he has disappointed many people with his rather passive approach to the issues involved. However, I welcome this opportunity to say a few words about the things the Government is doing in the area of the environment and conservation and to explain to the House some of the actions that have been taken. 
I believe that, as a government, we are showing real concern for the environment and we have acted sensibly and responsibly to protect it. The Government has developed a comprehensive framework within which its policies and programs are being refined to protect and enhance the environment. Responsibility for the environment does not rest only in the hands of the Federal Government, as the honourable member implied in some of the comments he made. Of course, the other spheres of government around Australia have a role to play as well and I think it is clear that we recognise that proper role. The responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government are exercised by a number of agencies. They include my own Department, the Australian Heritage Commission, the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the Office of the Supervising Scientist. 
It was interesting that the honourable member raised the general issue of the environment. However, from my recollection he did not raise at all the issue of uranium. A great deal of the work which is being done at the moment by the Government' concerning uranium is to ensure that the general public of Australia and those directly involved are properly protected once we commence the mining and export of uranium from the Alligator Rivers region. The Government's basic approach is to co-operate with the other spheres of government in improving environmental protection while, at the same time, striking a proper balance between conservation and economic growth. Environmental protection is only one of a number of human values. At times there are competing human values and that has to be recognised. Jobs are important. Employment is important. The livelihood of people is important. These things must be properly recognised. 
The Government is not the captive of any interest group, whether it be any kind of commercial lobby or a group of radical environmentalists. The Government is independent and objective, but most of all it applies common sense. It is no one's puppet. It does not pander to any extremists and there are extremists on both sides. There are extremists who want to develop at all costs and extremists who want to stop development at all costs. It is important to strike a balanced stance and the problem is that once a balance is struck the Government is open to criticism that it is anti-conservationist. That is a misunderstanding of our approach. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Government is proud of its record in the field of environment and conservation. 
Let me deal with some specific issues. The Government accepted the recommendations of the Fraser Island environmental inquiry and decisions have been taken since then. At this stage, I do not want to go into that issue in great detail because it is well known to those people who have an interest in the environment. The Government has accepted the recommendations of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry. A package of comprehensive legislation has been brought down to give effect to the Government's decision on uranium. This legislation implements administrative and regulatory arrangements which were foreshadowed when the decision was first announced in August 1977. There are three important elements in this package, all of which were overlooked by the honourable member for Robertson in his speech. They are the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act, The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Act and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act. The second reading speeches on the Bills describe their nature and what the Government will be achieving with these important pieces of legislation. Following that legislation, stringent environmental controls will be imposed on uranium mining operations. 
The Government is co-ordinating and supervising appropriate environmental protection arrangements in the region concerned in the Northern Territory through the Office of the Supervising Scientist. Already, in this Office, research work is under way in this area and on-site facilities have been established. At the present time a field research station is being installed. The Government is co-operating with the States in developing uniform codes of practice to apply to the uranium industry around Australia. The Northern Territory Government has co-operated in examining existing ordinances in the Northern Territory for the control of uranium mining and in bringing forward amendments as necessary. 
We have finalised the establishment of the Australian Heritage Commission and the register of the National Estate is now under way. We have finalised the formation of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Again, we have finalised the establishment of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the associated consultative committee established under that Authority. We have announced the establishment of an independent inquiry into whales and whaling. We have continued to apply the provisions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. I believe that Act is still being administered very effectively and that is recognised by companies and by proponents of proposals around Australia. As a result of the operation of the Act, they are very much more aware of the need to be concerned about the environment and protecting the environment. 
We have, of course, already recognised the role to be played by the States in administering that sort of legislation and procedures of that kind. We have negotiated draft agreements with four States on arrangements which are mutually acceptable for assessing the environmental impact of projects. There is a move among the States, which I think has resulted from the Federal legislation, to have appropriate legislation or procedures so that they can assess properly and adequately projects to determine the impact those projects might have on the environment. 
The honourable member mentions the environmental impact statement on the Iwasaki project. Despite what was suggested by the honourable member for Robertson in this debate, that matter was examined very carefully indeed. The stance that one takes on these proposals depends upon one's attitude. There are members opposite like the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys),  who I think it is fair to say, are totally opposed to development and totally concerned with the environment. What one needs is a balanced and common sense approach. Following on our examination of the Iwasaki project a number of quite stringent conditions have been opposed on the proponent of the project. 
The other matter mentioned was the bauxite project at Wagerup in Western Australia which is being undertaken by Alcoa of Australia ( WA) Ltd. The honourable member for Robertson said we have been silent. He does not understand what has happened. A great deal of work has been done by a number of officers on that project to assess carefully its impact on the environment. There has been a joint operation in assessing that project under the agreed arrangements with 
Western Australia. But, again, very strict conditions have been imposed to protect the environment. I believe that these conditions would satisfy any one with a genuine realistic interest in the environment. 
The issue of oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef has been raised before in the House and I have said that we will not allow any action to take place in the area of the Great Barrier Reef which might cause serious and permanent harm. I think that point should be noted. In response to broad responsibilities for pollution abatement and the assessment of the state of the environment, the Government has sought to establish consistent nationwide approaches through the Australian Environment Council and the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers. A recent example of Commonwealth support has been the establishment of a secretariat to under-pin the work of the AEC's Advisory Committee on Hazardous Chemicals which is a very important area. Other important considerations include motor vehicle emissions, noise, and waste management. We have continued to support air quality activities including the continued development of the National Data Centre within my own Department, the acquisition and deployment within the States of three mobile monitoring units, instrument development and site selection studies for the establishment of a national baseline station in Tasmania- a very important project- in accordance with an international commitment and our international responsibilities. This station will form part of an international network. It will be one of a small group of similar stations in appropriate sites around the world. 
We continue to support research and education in the field of air pollution. We have established consultative mechanisms with the packaging and chemical industries in order to ascertain the effects of various government policy options on these industries. We have commenced examination of the potential for achieving national objectives for recycling and waste management, preferably through an appropriate national body. We have joined with the States in a program involving studies of specific soil erosion problems and development of a collaborative policy-oriented soil conservation study with a view to determining priority national needs in this field. My colleague the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has a key role to play in that area and on that subject. 
We have supported other research activities including the ecological survey of Australia and the assessment of the environmental consequences of specific energy decisions. We have continued to support international environmental activities through the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), the Environment Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and regional bodies such as the Economic and Social Commission for the Pacific (ESCAP) and specialist meetings such as the United Nations Conference on Desertification. So, we certainly remain extremely active in fulfilling our responsibilities in the area of the environment. 
I think it is worth noting that, in this financial year, there is an increase in the allocation for those areas of the environment in which the Federal Government is involved. It should be noted that last financial year the amount spent totalled $7. 355m and in this financial year the amount being spent on these activities has increased very substantially to $10,669,000. The approach that we have adopted is one, as I say, of balance and common sense but with the necessary sensitivity. As I mentioned, there are competing human values. This is not a one-way exercise. We cannot say that the environment and the protection of the environment is all important. The environment I think should be seen in a broader sense. We are concerned with people's life styles. We are concerned with their livelihoods. An important part of that concern is certainly their jobs and their incomes. 
The Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act is being administered effectively. It is having an impact on decision-making around Australia. Proponents of projects are very much conscious of the need to show concern for the environment. In literally hundreds of cases special conditions have been imposed as a result of that Act and the administration of that Act. So, I believe there is no substance in the points made by the honourable member for Robertson. We remain very conscious of our responsibilities and we are administering the programs in this area very effectively with proper concern for the environment. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941 I present reports of the activities carried out under the Act for the years ended 30 June 1976 and 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourble members I present the agreement and memoranda of lease associated with the lease of Stage 1 of the proposed Kakadu National Park.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
The leases and associated documents which I have just tabled represent an historic linking of Aboriginal and national park aspirations. The establishment of Kakadu National Park was central to the recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. Its creation was seen as essential to the overall strategy for minimising adverse social and environmental impacts which might occur with the onset of mining in the region.  Mr Justice  Woodward in the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission Report of 1974 indicated that he could see no reason why areas should not be both owned as Aboriginal Land and declared as national park. Later, a proposal along these lines was presented to the Ranger Inquiry by the Aboriginals of the area. The Inquiry subsequently recommended that an agreement should be reached with the Northern Land Council and any other relevant Aboriginal group, regarding the basis on which Aboriginal land could become part of the National Park. The Government accepted the recommendation that: 
Aboriginal title should be granted, the national park established and necessary control mechanisms set up, before any substantial amount of construction work is done on the Ranger Project or substantial numbers of people are brought into the area. 
The documents tabled today give effect to this new and innovative concept which acknowledges that the granting of land rights to Aboriginals and the management of that land as a park are in fact compatible land uses. The documents which I have tabled comprise three leases between the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Kakadu Land Trust, representing the traditional Aboriginal land owners; and an agreement between the Northern Land Council and the Director which sets out the conditions under which the leases have been agreed. 
One of the leases is for the area of the former Woolwonga Aboriginal reserve and wildlife sanctuary, with the other two covering the remainder of the area granted to Aboriginals within Stage 1 of the Park. In summary, the leases provide that the land concerned will be leased for a period of 100 years on the condition that it is administered, managed and controlled as a national park in accordance with the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975, the associated regulations and the plan of management. They also provide for renegotiation prior to expiration and for discussions to take place between the Northern Land Council and the Director at least every 10 years to consider any variation to provisions of the lease. These leases are now in the process of being lodged for registration. 
The other document tabled- that is, the agreement with the NLC- requires the Kakadu Land Trust to enter into these leases with the Director subject to a series of conditions. One of the major aims of these conditions is to involve Aboriginals closely in the planning and management of Kakadu. To this end, the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service has undertaken that, when preparing the Park's plan of management, he will consult with the NLC, which is to ascertain the wishes of the traditional Aboriginal owners on this matter. This plan of management which requires parliamentary approval, will require that management practices are employed which take into account the interests of the traditional Aboriginal owners. It has been agreed also that a training program will be implemented to enable Aboriginals to assist in the management and control of the Park and that measures will be taken to utilise the traditional skills of Aboriginals living in the Park. 
The agreement with the NLC also contains a special provision to allow traditional Aboriginal owners of the land to enter and move freely throughout the Park. It also contains a clause granting particular rights of access to officers of the NLC discharging their statutory responsibilities. The Director, through this agreement, has undertaken to promote among the nonAboriginal residents of the region an understanding and respect for the traditions, languages and culture of the Aboriginal people, and to arrange for instruction in local customs, flora and fauna and geography of the region to be available to persons resident in the region. He is also required to assist the NLC in the identification and recording of Aboriginal sacred sites within the Park and to provide equipment and facilities to undertake this work. 
The agreement also contains an undertaking that, if any of the area known as Stage 2 of the 
Park becomes Aboriginal land, the NLC will, if requested to do so by the Director, direct the Land Trust to which those Aboriginal lands are granted to enter into an agreement to lease that land as national park. In the meantime, as announced in the August 1977 uranium statement, the land comprising the Stage 2 area of the Park is the responsibility of five Commonwealth departments, acting jointly. The amendments of June 1978 to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act provide for the proclamation of this area as a conservation zone, and for regulations to be made that will ensure control of activities in the area consistent with the eventual use of the land as a national park. 
In essence, therefore, the establishment of a conservation zone over the Stage 2 area and the proclamation of Stage 1 as a national park will effectively implement the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry, which the Government endorsed last year. The Stage 1 proclamation can now proceed immediately and the statutory procedures for the preparation of the plan of management can go ahead. A good deal of preliminary work has already been carried out by the Director in preparing the plan of managment which, of course, is a most essential part of the management arrangements for the National Park. I believe the Australian people have reason to be grateful to the NLC and the traditional owners of the land in the region, for this very generous gift of their land to the Commonwealth, to be enjoyed by all as a national park. 
The role of the Northern Territory Government also is a crucial factor in the on-going arrangements for the Park. The establishment of a park in the Alligator Rivers region was first proposed in 1965 by the Northern Territory Reserves Board in recognition of the national significance of the area. The Commonwealth in the development of a considerably larger Kakadu National Park recognises that its success will in large measure depend on continuation of the active interest and support of the Northern Territory Government and people. 
The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act has been amended to take account of the wishes of the Northern Territory Government. The amendments include a provision requiring consultation between the Director and the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission in the preparation of the plan of management and in relation to the performance of functions and the exercising of powers. Provision also exists to delegate responsibilities to Northern Territory officials. I am confident that the provisions of the leases and associated agreement together with amendments made to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act provide a sound basis for co-operation and for the involvement of the Aboriginal owners in the development of what will become one of the world's great national parks. 
I now take this opportunity to inform honourable members of the progress that has been made in respect to other aspects of the Government's environmental policies for the Alligator Rivers region. Honourable members will recall that in its uranium statements of August 1977, the Government promised to adopt strict environmental controls and standards in relation to uranium mining in the region. We agreed to establish institutions and programs for the specific purpose of protecting the environment from the consequences of uranium mining. Since then considerable progress has been made and, in fact, the legal and administrative regime for environmental control of mining is now substantially in place. The Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Act was assented to in June of this year and an acting appointment to the office of the Supervising Scientist was made shortly afterwards. Action is well advanced on the appointment of members of the Coordinating Committee, to be established under the Act. 
As honourable members will know, the role of the Committee is to assist the Supervising Scientist in considering and reviewing standards, practices, and procedures in relation to uranium mining operations, as far as environmental protection is concerned. The Northern Land Council is to be represented on the Committee, thus ensuring that Aboriginal interests are kept well to the fore in the Committee's deliberations. I expect that the Co-ordinating Committee will hold its first meeting during December. 
A further provision in the Act is the establishment of a research institute. Naturally, this is a longer term project, but already a well equipped field station is being established at Jabiru, and a number of important research and monitoring studies have been initiated. Honourable members will recall that the Ranger uranium environment inquiry referred to the considerable amount of research that was needed before precise standards should be imposed on the various control aspects of the mining operations. As the Ranger mine will not be operational for possibly three years, there is time to develop proper standards for the protection of the environment, and these will be applied progressively as the basic information is obtained and interpreted by the 
Supervising Scientist, with the advice of the Coordinating Committee. 
It is within this context that I wish to draw honourable members' attention to the arrangement that the Government has made for detailed environmental protection measures. The environmental requirements for Ranger, which reflect fully the recommendations of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry, are a condition of the authority to mine. This authority is given under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act. These requirements are set out in Appendix A of the section 4 1 authority that has been tabled with the Ranger agreement documents today. I might say that all of these environmental requirements were the subject of quite detailed consideration and discussions during the Government's negotiations with the Northern Land Council, and the Council did indicate its satisfaction with them knowing, of course, that precise standards are to be applied before mining and milling commences, and after adequate research has been done. 
In large measure, the detailed requirements are to be implemented and enforced through relevant laws of the Northern Territory. I wish to acknowledge the co-operation of the Northern Territory Government in this matter. In consultation with the Commonwealth, the Northern Territory has reviewed its laws and has brought forward amendments to relevant Acts, with the sole purpose of ensuring that the controls agreed on by the Commonwealth for uranium mining are adequately covered by the laws of the Territory. We are appreciative of this, but we also recognise the heavy burden which will be placed on the Territory in the rigorous administration of these laws as they relate to uranium mining and, consequently, the Commonwealth has agreed to meet the additional costs of these regulatory services. This will ensure that co-operatively, the Commonwealth and the Territory can implement the strict environmental requirements recommended by the Ranger inquiry, and agreed on by the Government in its uranium decision of August 1977. 
The role of the Supervising Scientist is, of course, vital in these arrangements. The Supervising Scientist will be required to maintain an overall supervision of the effects of uranium mining on the environment of the region. He will work with the supervising authorities in the Territory in carrying out this task. In addition, there are some aspects of environment control that will be the direct responsibility of the Supervising Scientist, including the very important matter of disposal of tailings from the mining and milling operations. Honourable members will appreciate that the responsibilities of the Supervising Scientist are wide-ranging and demanding. I remind honourable members that the Act establishing the Office of the Supervising Scientist requires him to report to me annually. He may also report at other times and there is provision for me to obtain reports at any time. All reports from the Supervising Scientist are to be tabled in Parliament so there will be the opportunity for Parliament itself to be kept fully informed on developments in respect to environment protection. 
May I remind the House of the provision that is made through the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Act for the Northern Land Council, the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission to apply to the Supreme Court for orders in relation to protection of the environment from uranium mining. The Government sees this arrangement as providing an opportunity for these three organisations to reinforce the environment protection machinery in the region. 
Finally, I wish to announce that the Government proposes to introduce a levy as a recognition of the special costs of environmental monitoring and research activities related to uranium mining in the region. Because the Supervising Scientist and the research institute will be carrying out environmental monitoring and research activities specially designed for regulation of uranium mining, the Government has decided that an appropriate levy should be paid by the uranium miners concerned in recognition of the special environmental costs involved. The levy will be payable by companies engaged in the mining of uranium in the region and will be related to the quantity of yellowcake produced from uranium mined by a company, which is exported. The levy will be at a maximum rate of 5c per pound of yellowcake exported. In all, I believe that the Government, through these legislative and administrative arrangements, and the land use controls to be enforced through the national park procedures has established new and significant standards for resource management and environmental protection, and that the opportunity is provided for a completely satisfactory reconciliation of the various interests in the region. 
I present the following paper: 
Kakadu National Park- Leases and AgreementMinisterial Statement, 7 November 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Amendment Bill and the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Amendment Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I thank the honourable member for his question and I acknowledge the very keen interest he has shown- some might say that he has shown too keen and too active an interest- in this issue over some time. As the House would be aware, following the decision made by the Government on sand mining on Fraser Island, we offered ex gratia payments to two of the companies involved- DM Minerals and Queensland Titanium Mines Ltd. The amounts involved were $4m and $500,000 respectively. One of the conditions of payment of those sums was that certain rehabilitation work should be carried out in the areas mined. It is true that my Department has been involved in assessing the rehabilitation work that has been done so far. Inspections have been carried out in the area. One was carried out in June of last year and there have been three inspections this year- in January, May and September. I am pleased to advise the House that the rehabilitation work has been very well done so far and is progressing very satisfactorily. The areas concerned are now quite stable and there is no present cause for concern that any area may become unstable or susceptible to wind or water erosion. Despite adverse weather conditions in the area, the growth of trees and shrubs is very encouraging. We intend to continue to assess the work that is being done, and I will keep the honourable member advised of progress. 
Pursuant to section 43 of the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Australian Heritage Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
I was amazed and, frankly, very disappointed when I read of the accusations that have been made against me by the State Ministers following the Commonwealth-State housing Ministers' conference in Adelaide last Friday. I think it is important that people know what was contained in the statement that I released. It states: 
State Housing Ministers' calls for a massive increase in Commonwealth funds for housing are quite unrealistic, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Ray  Groom, said today. 
An injection of this size would work against the whole Commonwealth strategy which was already having demonstrable success in reducing inflation, cutting interests rates, improving the availability of finance as well as bringing about improvements in industry stability and overall economic recovery. 
The call for increased Commonwealth funding was made by State Ministers at a Commonwealth/State Housing Ministers meeting in Adelaide today. 
It's about time that the States realised that Commonwealth money doesn't solve everything',  Mr Groom  said. 
They have failed to appreciate the Commonwealth's objectives for both the housing industry and the economy generally. 
The most effective single action the Commonwealth can take for the housing industry is to get inflation down. 
Calls for additional funds at a time when, in the interests of reducing inflation, the Commonwealth is attempting to limit expenditure are neither helpful, nor realistic',  Mr Groom  said. 
The Commonwealth had demonstrated its concern for the housing industry and had acted to ensure there was an adequate supply of finance. 
The Commonwealth had reduced the Savings Bank prescribed assets ratio from 45 per cent to 40 per cent so that savings banks could increase funds to the housing sector. 
As a result of the Commonwealth's actions the total volume of lending by banks and permanent building societies is likely to be about 12 per cent higher this year than in 1977-78" . . . 
The recent reductions which the Commonwealth had made in interest rates on bonds could also be expected to flow through to housing interest rates. 
The States do not seem to realise that the Government's moves to lower interest rates represent an enormous potential saving to home purchasers' . . . An interest rate reduction on home loans of 1 per cent would mean that people buying their own home would save a total of about $ 1 30m a year. 
The Commonwealth's actions to reduce inflation, maintain an adequate supply of finance to the housing market and to reduce interest rates would have a beneficial effect on housing activity. 
State Ministers who criticise the level of advances provided by the Commonwealth for welfare housing conveniently ignore the range of funding sources provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
Apart from Commonwealth advances States have other funds available to them which have been generated from the operation of the program, and any funds they themselves may care to contribute. 
The total Commonwealth advances of $3 16m this year, would make possible total State expenditure on welfare housing of the same order as in 1 977-78. 
If States feel that more funds should be provided, they should look to their own Budget resources which have been considerably boosted by for instance the tax-sharing arrangements now in operation' . . . 
The Commonwealth has done all it can for the housing industry within the economic constraints which it faces' . . . 
 Rather than calling for further Commonwealth assistance it is up to the States to take some action themselves. 
They do have their own funds which, if they were genuinely concerned about housing, could be allocated to housing programs. 
There are other things the States could do which involve minimal expenditure. For example, the Recommendations of the Housing Costs Inquiry provide a program for action by the States which would assist both consumers and producers. 
Until the States demonstrate their bona fides, calls to the Commonwealth for assistance sound very hollow indeed' . . . 
That was the statement that I issued following the meeting. I believe that that statement was temperate in its language; it was mild and it was accurate. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said at Question Time today, it was an impeccable statement of policy which had been previously announced by the Government and it was an entirely proper statement. In no way did I breach the confidence of the meeting in making that statement. It was totally consistent with the views I expressed during the conference. That is a point that I want to stress. I object to the comments by the State Housing Ministers that I did not say these things to their faces but in a Press statement outside. That is untrue. I wish I had the transcript before me to place before the House so that honourable members would see that what I said at the meeting was quite consistent with the statement I issued after the meeting. 
I made the point during the meeting that it was so important that we should get the inflation rate down further, that there was a clear correlation between the inflation rate and interest rates, that it was important to control strictly government expenditure to achieve a reduction in interest rates and a reduction in the inflation rate, and that the industry's problems would not be solved merely by more government expenditure on 
Budget or by some short term palliative or stimulus. I indicated to the Ministers at that meeting that if there were an answer to the problems of the industry it was in general fiscal and monetary policies and not in some short term measure which was suggested. I gave no cause for the Ministers to think - 
-I will come to that in a moment. I gave no cause for the Ministers to think that our Budget strategy for 1978-79 would be changed. In fact, on any reasonable interpretation of what I said, I was indicating quite the contrary. Therefore I say there was nothing in what I was saying at the meeting which was inconsistent with what I said after the meeting when releasing the Press statement. Frankly, I think the response was a gross overreaction and overexaggeration. I suspect that the Ministers concerned, when they read what they have said, would regret their statements. I think they would regret having attacked me and the Committee in this way for its policies. 
Many subjects were discussed during the meeting. There was, of course, the request for extra funds. It was a little like the previous Housing Ministers Conference held in Hobart a little less than 12 months ago when the Housing Ministers asked for a doubling of funds. They wanted twice the amount of funds that they were currently receiving, an increase from $400m to $800m. I said in a Press statement after that meeting- they did not react in the same way then- that that was not a reasonable request in all the circumstances and that it was not realistic. I said that it ignored economic realism.  I  said that at the earlier conference and there was no reaction to that statement. A whole range of subjects were dealt with and some had merit. Those matters will be placed before the Government so that they can be given proper consideration. We talked about aged persons housing and about the matching funding principle and objections were raised by the States, some of which obviously were very genuine. That is a different issue to the issue of total funding. The question of the amount is different to the principle of matching. Certainly, the principle of matching is something which I think we should consider. We should look at the points that the States made. 
They pointed out the need for forward commitments. Again that is a matter that must be considered. Aboriginal housing and the new agreement, which will be signed quite soon, were discussed. We are now waiting on Queensland to agree on certain clauses but we would expect that agreement to be signed shortly. That agreement was discussed in some detail. The current position of the industry from State to State was analysed and we considered what actions might be taken. We looked at the total situation and each State had an opportunity to express a point of view and we listened very carefully to what they had to say. Of course, there was the question of the follow-up to the Housing Costs Inquiry. Ministers conferred on what action might be taken to follow up the important report which has been handed down. We talked also about the general economic situation and general economic issues. Some of these matters have merit and obviously they must be considered. I made it abundantly clear at the meeting that the massive increase in expenditure which was requested for this financial year was not realistic and certainly was not the answer. That was the point that I reiterated in the Press statement that I issued. 
Where is the impropriety that is implied in the comments made by the State Ministers? Each Minister attending a meeting such as that must have the right when he leaves the meeting to issue a statement. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  mentioned a joint statement. 
Sure. It would be very nice if the State Ministers would agree to include in such a statement the sorts of points that I made in that meeting and the sorts of points that I make now. That is one of the problems - 
-It is important that we have good relations. I suggest to the honourable member that he confers with some of his Labor colleagues who happen to be Ministers and explain to them the importance of that point of view. Any Minister who has attended these meetings realises that it is difficult to get across the Commonwealth point of view in any joint Press statement that might be released afterwards. We had a joint Press statement that was prepared the night before by the Ministers without my knowledge. It was in a brief that some of the Ministers had. It was a draft and I understand that at the time I left the meeting it had not been considered. It was there and I believe that they intended to consider that draft until other things took its place following the release of my statement. 1 want to quote some of the paragraphs from this joint statement that was to be issued: 
Housing Ministers from all States meeting in Adelaide today unanimously called on the Commonwealth Government to make available substantial additional funds to the housing industry as a matter of critical urgency. 
The Ministers said they deplored the savage cut . . . 
The Ministers went on to say that the situation was disastrous and so on. Was this a joint statement which was prepared beforehand? One thing one learns when one attends a Commonwealth-State Ministers meeting is that it is important to be prepared. There is no reasonable opportunity for a Federal Minister to make known his point of view. That was why it was necessary for me to issue a Press statement. That matter was raised at the meeting and it was agreed that the Ministers had the right to issue Press statements. The comment that what I said was tantamount to rejecting all the requests made at that meeting is plainly wrong and patently inaccurate. There are a number of matters that must be taken up. I believe that the Ministers concerned showed extraordinary sensitivity in taking the action they did. No Minister can be muzzled from making a statement that he believes is proper, accurate and reasonable following a meeting of that kind, and I would not suggest that any individual State Minister should be prevented from making that sort of statement. It was consistent with what I said. 
It is important to see the statement in its proper context. One of the objections made by the States was that some of the contents of the statement were not to their satisfaction in that I was calling on the States to take some action themselves and to look at their own budgetary situation. It is important to look at the States' budgetary situation. All States, except possibly Tasmania, appear to be in a sound financial position. One must compare their situation with that of the Commonwealth, where we are looking at a deficit of $2, 800m, and see who has the capacity to direct more funds towards housing. I am just as concerned as the States are about housing, and about welfare housing, but let us look at the facts and see what capacity the States have. As I have said, all States with the possible exception of Tasmania appear to be in a sound financial situation budgetwise. Four States had small deficits or surpluses on revenue transactions in 1977-78. South Australia had a $24.9m deficit, $ 18.4m of which was financed by accumulated reserves, leaving an accumulated deficit of $6.5m at 30 June 1978. Tasmania had a $6.4m deficit. Let us look at the States' current public balances as at 30 June 1978: Victoria has $291. lm; Queensland $549. 8m; South Australia $93m; Western Australia $380. 5m; Tasmania $ 12.4m; and the New South Wales figure is not available. 
Those figures indicate a quite satisfactory position from State to State. As to revenue Budgets, New South Wales had a relatively minor Budget deficit of $2.1m; Victoria $5. 5m; Queensland $0.4m; South Australia and Western Australia a balanced Budget; and Tasmania a small deficit of $1.9m. So the States themselves do have the capacity to direct further funds to housing, and to welfare housing in particular. 
I want to indicate briefly that the total amount of funds available for welfare housing in the States is at least as good as last year, on the figures we have. On the advice from the States, it is better than it was last year. I acknowledge that the States have made some effort to direct their funds into this area and I think they could make a greater effort. The total amount of funds is more than it was last year, I put those figures before the State Ministers and no one disagreed with them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the House of Representatives  Hansard  for Tuesday, 19 September, page 1 172. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090 on page 1972 of the House of Representatives  Hansard,  17 October 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Fifty-seven submissions were received by my Department as part of the public review of the draft environmental impact statement (EIS) on the proposed Iwasaki Sangyo project. 
The proponent then revised the draft EIS taking into account the comments made in the 37 submissions. The revisions are contained in an addendum to the draft EIS which has been distributed by the proponent to all those who made submissions. The document is also available to the public. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department owns a PDP 11 computer which is solely utilised as a communication controller to access the CSIRO 'Csironet' Network. My Department does not operate, is not in the process of purchasing, nor does it rent any computers. Statutory Authorities within my Ministry do not own, operate, are not in the process of purchasing, nor do they rent any computers. However, extensive use of two service bureaux is made: the CSIRO 'Csironet' Network and the Honeywell Mark III Timesharing Network, on a 'pay as you use basis'. 
My Department and Statutory Authorities within my Ministry do not pay rental for a computer. However it is estimated for the 1978-79 financial year, total expenditure on a 'pay as you use basis' will be approximately $60,000 of which approximately 90 per cent will be spent on the CSIRO System and 1 0 per cent on the Honeywell System. 
Computers are used to maintain Management Systems (e.g. Library, Registry, Stock Control, Personnel, Australian Heritage Commission Registry, International Referral System of Environmental Data Sources) and various research programs (e.g. Modelling and Statistical Analysis.) 
The nature of data stored is non-confidential general purpose data derived for Departmental use. 
There are no interconnections used, or envisaged, for Departmental use. 
Access to the computer bureaux through Departmental terminals is restricted to ADP staff and authorised officers. 
No savings in staff numbers have been achieved or are anticipated as a result of the installation or operation of a computer. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department owns a PDP 11 computer which is solely utilised as a communication controller to access the CSIRO 'Csironet' Network. My Department does not operate any computer. Statutory Authorities within my Ministry do not own or operate any computers. However, extensive use is made of two service bureaux: the CSIRO Csironet' Network and the Honeywell Mark III Timesharing Network, on a 'pay as you use basis'. Information stored on the networks is generally non-confidential data derived for Departmental use. 
Non-confidential statistical data is available free of charge for outside use, on a selected basis, if such use is determined to be of benefit to my Department. The data collected for the International Referral System (IRS) is available free on request to the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and the general public. 
IRS information is given to UNEP and to the Australian public upon request and on a regular basis. Nonconfidential statistical data has been given to industry representatives, public inquiries e.g. Housing Costs Inquiry and approved researchers upon request. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The submission from  Mr Tutt  was made in response to a call for public comment on the draft environmental impact statement (EIS) in accordance with the Administrative Procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. There is no requirement in the Procedures that such submissions be acknowledged. However comments on the draft impact statement, including those of  Mr Tutt,  were taken into account in the course of preparing recommendations arising from consideration of the impact statement. 
I am not aware of any circumvention of Queensland local government acts in connection with this proposal. 
I am not aware of any specific land rights claims made in relation to the Iwasaki project area nor am I aware of any extraordinary requirements of a local government nature having been placed on Aboriginals in the area. 
Yes. The foreign investment policy decision on this matter was the subject of a press release by the Treasurer on 30 July 1978. 
No definite proposal regarding upgrading of Rockhampton airport has been made by the Company to the Minister for Transport or his Department. Current financial responsibility for such development would rest solely with the Commonwealth; given the current need for expenditure restraint and the wide variety of other projects with which these works must compete, there is no prospect of the Commonwealth undertaking any development of this kind in the immediate future. On the other hand, it may be that the Iwasaki Group would be prepared to consider financing the upgrading itself as part of the overall development. Of course, it would be required to liaise with the Commonwealth Department of Transport in regard to standards, regulations, facilities and so on before commencing any works. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965 I present the report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
As I mentioned in my answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Wide Bay, the advice that has been received from departmental officers who inspected the work done by the mining companies indicated that the rehabilitation work is progressing very satisfactorily. I think the companies concerned should be complimented for that work. The policy announced by the Government on Fraser Island is quite clear. I have nothing to add to that policy statement. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 I present the report by the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service on his operations for the year ended 30 June 1978. This document is a photocopy of the final report and has been circulated to all honourable members. The printed version will be circulated as soon as it becomes available. 
Pursuant to section 60 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 197S, I present the report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The recommendations of the I.C.R.P. have been followed by the U.S. E.P.A. in formulating environmental radiation protection standards. 
There are no major differences in the approaches of the I.C.R.P. and the E.P.A. in setting radiation standards. 
(a) The E.PA. has not proposed a standard relating to radon gas in uranium mines. 
(b) and (c) The I.C.R.P. does not interpret its recommendations for specific situations. The E.P.A. interpretation of I.C.R.P. recommendations may lead to limits for radioactive contaminants in air and water different to those set by other national authorities depending on national assessments of the level of public health risk considered acceptable taking into account the cost of achieving improvements in public safety and their effectiveness. 
Radiation protection standards will be regulated in the Northern Territory through Regulations under the Mines Regulation Ordinance. These Regulations were notified in the Northern Territory Government Gazette of 30 June 1978. The Regulations give effect to the Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores, first published by the Australian Department of Health in August 1975, as it is set out in Schedule 1 and as amended from time to time by these Regulations. The Code takes into account the recommendations of the I.C.R.P. and in particular the recommendation that all radiation exposures be kept as low as reasonably achievable. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The proposed action was the making of a decision by the Reserve Bank on whether to approve exchange control transactions in relation to the proposal by Iwasaki Sangyo Co (Australia) Pty Ltd to establish and operate a resort and tourist area at Farnborough, Queensland. 
The execution of the proposed action is the granting or declining of exchange control approval to such applications. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question 
Asbestos is a material which has many uses in the building, motor vehicle and other industries, but which can present a serious hazard to the health of industry workers if adequate safeguards are not taken. 
Except in isolated circumstances, the level of free asbestos fibres in the ambient atmosphere is sufficiently small that it is considered to pose no problem. 
In some cases, however, in localised areas, asbestos fibres may be present in the environment in sufficient concentrations to become an identifiable health hazard. This may occur in the vicinity of asbestos mines or mills, or near mine tailing dumps. The Government of Western Australia has recently announced its decision to move the town of Wittenoom, a former asbestos mining centre, because of blue asbestos fibres in the environment in the vicinity. 
The Australian Environment Council's National Advisory Committee on Chemicals has included asbestos in a list of substances to be assessed in regard to potential environmental hazards. These investigations are underway at present. 
I am aware of the World Health Organisation document referred to by the honourable member, which was published by the WHO's International Agency for Research on Cancer in 1977. While touching on environmental issues, the report is devoted principally to the human health effects of asbestos particularly in relation to occupational exposure. The main conclusions of the report are: 
All commercial forms of asbestos are carcinogenic in laboratory test animals. 
The size and shape of asbestos fibres are important in determining lung cancer risk. Glass fibres of similar dimensions to asbestos fibres have also been shown to cause lung tumors, in certain laboratory experiments. 
In humans, exposure to most forms of asbestos causes an increased incidence of tumors of the lung, larynx ang gastrointestinal tract. 
Occupational exposure to asbestos may occur during the mining of fibrous minerals, as well as minerals embodied in rocks, which may contain asbestos-like fibres as a contaminant. 
Cigarette smoking and occupational exposure to asbestos have a multiplicative effect in inducing lung cancer. 
The general population may also be exposed to asbestos fibres (at low levels) in air, beverages, drinking water, food, pharmaceutical and dental preparations, and by consumer use of asbestos-containing products. 
It is not at present possible to assess whether there is a level of exposure in humans below which an increased risk of cancer would not occur. 
The possible environmental risks from asbestos are under investigation by the National Advisory Committee on Chemicals, whose membership includes officials of each State and Territory, and the Commonwealth. I understand that a report to the Australian Environment Council on environmental dangers of asbestos is currently in preparation. The need for greater public awareness will no doubt be one of the factors considered. 
My colleague, the Minister for Health, advises that the National Health and Medical Research Council has published a number of codes of practice for use and handling of asbestos and asbestos products. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Academic staff of Australian institutions can work temporarily in CSIRO under a variety of arrangements. In some cases the employment of the staff concerned remains fully or pardy financed by the 'home' institution while in other instances academic staff may be on leave-without-pay. CSIRO may pay an honorarium or meet certain costs associated with secondments. 
The Executive of CSIRO is presently examining provisions for secondment of staff both to and from CSIRO, involving not only tertiary educational institutions but also private and government laboratories. As a result of this examination, it is possible that the present arrangements for secondment of academic staff to CSIRO will be expanded. 
The numbers of academic staff of Australian institutions recorded as having worked in CSIRO on secondment or similar temporary basis during the last 10 financial years are as follows:* 
1968-69-10; 1969-70-5; 1970-71-1; 1971-72-9; 1972-73-13; 1973-74-13; 1974-75-8; 1975-76-17; 1976-77-18; 1977-78-14. 
* Due to the informal nature of many such arrangements there are likely to have been additional cases which have not been recorded. A lower limit of one month has been established for the purpose of compiling this table. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (l)and(2)- 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Science and the Environment does not normally employ apprentices. However, of the statutory authorities responsible to the Minister, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) does employ apprentices. 
(a) nil; (b) nil; (c) The numbers of people offered apprenticeships by CSIRO (excluding apprenticeships offered by the former Department of Employment and Industrial Relations under the Group (One Year) Scheme in each of the last six years are: 
1973-14; 1974-18; 1975-16; 1976-11; 1977-8; 1978-8. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The specific CSIRO research programs which will receive funds during 1978-79 from the contributors referred to are: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The position is not as reported in relation to my Department. 
See (2). 
See (2). 
The nine public comments received on the draft environmental impact statement for the Arnhem Highway extension were summarised in the final impact statement which was made available to the public. 
In accordance with the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development forwarded his comments and recommendations concerning the proposed action to the action Minister and the Department advised the proponent accordingly. 
-I thank the honourable member for Hughes for giving me the chance to say a word or two about the present housing situation in Australia. The honourable member does not interpret the current situation at all accurately. The prospects for recovery in the housing industry in Australia have increased quite dramatically in recent times. Most forecasters and commentators recognise that fact. Let me make one or two comments on the financial situation. There has been a very large increase in the volume of funds flowing to housing in the last few months. For example, there was a 4 per cent increase in the total number of loans made by banks and building societies in the December quarter of last year. Those figures were released quite recently. The total volume of money is up by something like 1 1 per cent. The total volume of funds was the highest for any quarter since March 1976. 1 think that point is worth noting. A record $24m was lent by banks around Australia in November last year. In the five month period between July and November last year the banks increased their lending by 17 per cent. So, record amounts of money were flowing from these lending institutions to housing in the months I have mentioned. 
Most people recognise that the best thing the Federal Government can do for housing is to ensure that conditions are right for funds to be increased for housing and that there should be a good flow of funds to housing. As the finance situation is very buoyant we anticipate that these trends will continue. There is no doubt that finance is not a constraint to activity in the housing industry in Australia. The Government has created a very good climate indeed for increased activity in this industry. 
As well as the increased funds, there are now lower interest rates. As the honourable member would recognise, interest rates on housing loans have been reduced by an average of one per cent in the last 12 months. There has also been a moderation in the increase in the cost of building materials. At one stage this cost was running at well over 20 per cent per annum but by the calendar year 1978 the increase in the cost of materials was down to below six per cent. I think that the House and the honourable member who asked the question should recognise that fact and perhaps give some credit for it. 
Furthermore, there is a critical issue as to the question of preference. It would appear that at the moment people prefer to buy established houses and not new houses. That is a matter of some concern to the industry itself. Of course the Government cannot force people to buy new houses, and it is not something that the Government would want to do. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1974  (Hansard,  23-24 November 1978, page 3389). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The required information has been obtained from each of the States as follows: 
no dwellings constructed during the last five financial years under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement have been fitted with solar water heating systems, 
the proportion of dwellings constructed in each State during the last five financial years under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which have been insulated is as follows: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
No. 
to (4) Not applicable. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) and (b) The decline in contributory funds to CSIRO in 1977-78 and 1978-79 for programs related to agricultural research and land resources studies is due to previously announced Government decisions relating to the management of the Wool Research Trust Fund. From I January 1978, 60 per cent of CSIRO 's sheep and wool program funded from this source has been transferred to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The remaining decrease is a result of minor changes in the funds and programs approved by the bodies responsible for the administration of Rural Industry Funds. 
In the manufacturing industry /chemical support areas the decrease in contributory funds is a result of the completion of phase 3 of a collaborative project between CSIRO and the Reserve Bank of Australia. Funds for this project were provided by the Bank. However, following a review of the project at the completion of phase 3, agreement has now been reached for it to continue to a further phase, and an amount of $93,000 will be provided by the Bank. As this agreement was not finalised at the time of the presentation of CSIRO 's Explanatory Notes to Parliament, this amount was not reflected in that document. 
Support from outside contributors for Astronomy Research in CSIRO will continue at about the same level as in 1977-78. Since the preparation of CSIRO 's Estimate of Expenditure for 1978-79, which contained all details of contributory funds known at that time, advice has been received that a further $150,000 will be provided by the Department of Transport for the further development of the InterScan System. 
and (3) It is envisaged that the level of funds for the nominated research program areas will approximate that of the previous year, and it is not envisaged that any cuts to programs will be necessary. However, some new programs will be commenced and others terminated during the course of the year, as the term of agreements relating to some programs expire and new agreements relating to other programs are entered into. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 11 July 1978 in the  West Australian, tint Advertiser  (Adelaide), the  Mercury  (Hobart), the  Courier-Mail  (Brisbane), the  Canberra Times  and the  Northern Territory News. 
On 8 July 1978 in the above newspapers and the  Australian,  the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the Sydney  Telegraph,  the  Age  (Melbourne) and the  Sun-News Pictorial  (Melbourne). 
Copies were available from 11 July 1978 at Western Mining Corporations office in Western Australia at a cost of $20. In addition the document was available for examination at four locations in Penh, at Kalgoorlie and Wiluna, and at two locations in each capital city. 
1 1 September 1978. 
A total of 28 submissions were received before and after the closing date of 11 September 1978. All were forwarded to the proponent to be taken into account in the final environmental impact statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for Productivity in answer to question No. 1794, House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 335 1. 
Australian Science and Technology Council: Reports on Landsat and Bureau of Mineral Resources (Question No. 1930) 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The mining, minerals and energy research category primarily includes all research carried out by the following CSIRO Divisions: Mineral Physics, Mineralogy, Mineral Chemistry, Mineral Engineering, Process Technology, Applied Geomechanics and the Fuel Geoscience Unit. For the purpose of determining contributions for each of the last 10 years, all grants for mining, minerals or energy projects to all CSIRO Divisions and Units have been included. The total contributions for mining, minerals and energy for the last ten years are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Housing and Construction employs apprentices in accordance with its ability to provide adequate training in the various trades. Apprentices are not normally employed by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation or by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, the only authorities or bodies under my control. 
Apprenticeships offered and accepted by the Department of Housing and Construction in each of the last six years are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2638 (Hansard, 21 November 1978, page 3156), to Question No. 3065 (Hansard, 20 February 1979, page 130) and to Question No. 3082  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 130). 
I am aware of the answer which was given by my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services on 8 March in response to a question asked in the House during my absence. Following that answer the Minister sent a letter to the Leader of the Opposition explaining the danger that there is in using figures from the unhealthy and artificial boom period which existed in the latter part of 1975. Frankly, I agree wholeheartedly with the comments made by the Minister in his answer. There has certainly been a real improvement in the non-residential sector of the building industry in recent times. In the non-residential area of the private sector there has been a considerable increase in activity. In real terms there was an 8 per cent increase in 1977-78. The forward indicators suggest that this sort of trend will continue into the current financial year. If one looks at a particular sector of the private section of nonresidential building- the contract civil engineering sector- one will see that a remarkable increase of 28 per cent in real terms occurred in 1977-78. Once again, that sort of trend is continuing. We believe that there will be a modest increase in the public sector in the current financial year. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition mentioned the figures released today as building price indices. There was a 1.5 per cent increase in the index in the housing area for February 1979 and a 1.9 per cent increase in the non-housing area. The increase in the 12 months to February 1979 was 6.8 per cent. The increase in the year to October 1978 was 5.1 per cent. There has been a modest increase on the earlier figure. I think that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should prod his memory back to the period in 1974-75 when his party was in government and recall the 21 per cent increase in the cost of building materials in the financial year 1974-75. I think we should compare the figures that we are seeing now with the figures that existed then. Control of inflation remains a primary aim of the Government. We believe that the control of inflation is one of the important things we can do for the building industry- both the home building industry and the non-residential sector. I have no doubt that we will do very much better in that area than did the Australian Labor Party. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The areas to which the Government accords priority in establishing nuclear codes of practice were spelt out in Second Reading Speech on the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill on 10 April last year. They are radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores, the transport of yellowcake and the management of wastes from the mining and milling of uranium. Other codes will follow as appropriate. If any State perceives the need for a code relating to a particular activity it will be able to initiate action through the collaborative process. 
See (1) above. 
Under the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act nuclear codes of practice will be developed through a statutory process of consultation with the States and the Northern Territory. Discussions with the States and the Northern Territory are underway with the immediate aim being to agree on uniform codes of practice to apply in the three areas of concern identified in ( 1 ) above. Good progress is being achieved in the meetings, aimed at reviewing and developing codes, between the Commonwealth and States. 
Section 8 (a) of the Nuclear Codes Act makes provision for public comment on proposed codes of practice or variations of existing codes: An appropriated period for submission of comments on a proposed code would be set at that time. 
5 ) In the final analysis the process of formulation of codes is a matter for discussion between the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory and any decision relating to further assessment would be determined by consultations between Governments. 
The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has already given legal effect to the 1975 Code of Practice on 
Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores through Regulations under the Mines Regulation Ordinance. A review of this Code is presently under way with a view to establishing an agreed suitably updated code for promulgation by the Commonwealth and implementation by all State governments under appropriate legislation. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There were a number of informal and written inquiries about the content of the Regulation but the main consultation took place prior to 30 October as indicated in the press statement. 
Yes. A number of queries both oral and written were received both by my office and my Department and answered on the basis of the list. 
The Regulation was gazetted as soon as a satisfactory draft had been prepared. 
Science and Technology Agreement with China  (Question No. 3234) 
I am aware of the controversy which is raging at present in Tasmania over the question of the rentals being paid by tenants in Housing Department areas. I appreciate the particular concern of the honourable member for Franklin and his deep interest in the welfare of the people living in those areas. It is an interest which is shared by many other members of this House. There are rumours around that the Federal Government has forced upon the States an increase in rents. I say quite clearly that this is absolute nonsense. 
The honourable member for Reid knows that it is nonsense. A new agreement was negotiated and signed last year. Under that agreement there is a general policy that the States will move towards market related rents. That is not something that has been forced upon the States. That was, in the true sense of the word, an agreement. The Premiers of the States signed that agreement. They all signed the agreement; there was no duress of any kind. But the important point is that the control of rents, the amount of rents and the timing of increases in rents are matters entirely for the States. That is provided for in the agreement. So there is no way in which the States can blame the Federal Government for any increases that have occurred in the States because they have total control over the timing of rent increases and the amount of the increases. The important point is that the States collect the moneys from these tenants. They are not moneys that go to the Federal Government. Rebates are available to people paying higher rents in State Housing Department estates. Because of those rebates, which again were part of the agreement entered into, no hardship should be caused to people paying these rents. The problem is that it would appear in some cases that hardship is resulting. It is no good State Ministers- for example,  Mr Chisholm  in Tasmania- suggesting that it is the fault of the Commonwealth Government. He cannot blame us for the problems which result from decisions which he, his Government and the Housing Department have made in Tasmania. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Research Grants Committee for 1978 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  concerning the report. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1964 and section 53 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976, I present the annual reports on the administration and operation of those Acts for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I wish very briefly to inform the House of my views. In doing so I do not intend to canvass all of the arguments which have been expressed so well already during the debate. There are few absolutes in life. I am not prepared to say that the gift of life should never be taken away. To say that would be to ignore the realities of life. If I am under attack and in risk of my life I am entitled to strike back to repel my assailant. A fatal strike might be justified if it could be said to be a reasonable reaction in the defence of my life or the life of my family or others close to me. There may be other limited circumstances in which it is not wrong to take a life. Nevertheless, it is right to consider life as a precious possession to be cherished by its beneficiary and to be respected and protected by others, more so if it be an innocent life. The life of an individual commences at the moment of conception, and from that moment onwards that individual is entitled to respect and protection because he or she possesses life and, before birth, is totally innocent. 
Naturally, it is the mother who has the opportunity and primary natural responsibility during the pre-natal period to offer protection of that life. In truth it is, always has been and always will be a very personal issue for a mother. The fact is that the choice of protection or destruction is in practice a personal decision for the mother. But it is wrong to say that it is wholly personal, that it is her body and that no one else, especially a male, has any right to be involved. From conception onwards someone else is involved- an individual totally innocent and defenceless. Of course, no public law, no public directive, can shield that life from harm, but that does not mean that there is no public responsibility to assist and protect, within the means available, the mother and the unborn child. The questions of discrimination, social and economic stresses and the mental anguish of the mother must be weighed against the taking of life. 
Some excellent contributions have been made during this debate. I know that honourable members from both sides of the House speaking both for and against the motion have spoken with sincerity and feeling. I was impressed especially by the comments of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  when he stressed the need for a positive approach to the abortion issue; in effect, that we should look to greater social support for the mother, and that we should give her an opportunity, by counselling, advice and economic support, to bear her child. As he said, no one really wants an abortion. I agree with him. Therefore I state my conviction that each human is innately equal and should have the opportunity of continued life subject only to the natural human right of self-defence. I express my opposition to the use of public funds for purposes inconsistent with that conviction. I support the original motion. Perhaps that motion is not ideal and will not be implemented easily. I recognise that others may, as a matter of their own consciences, consider other principles to be of greater importance. I cannot say that I am right and that they are wrong. I can only state my personal beliefs. 
It has been said that an abortion is a State matter but here we are concerned with the use of Commonwealth funds to facilitate and perhaps encourage abortion. The State criminal laws and, similarly, the funds provided may influence the number of abortions. Are we to disregard that fact and disregard our beliefs in dealing with this motion? Where we have authority we have a corresponding responsibility. It has been suggested also that the issue before us is funding simpliciter and that the abortion issue is not really relevant. My colleague the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  made that point in his excellent and thoughtful speech but then went on to indicate his own attitude to the basic issue. I believe that the fundamental abortion issue is plainly relevant and basic to the motion before the House. Most speakers have argued that issue. 
I appreciate the sensitivity of this matter. It certainly is a very personal issue as far as a mother is concerned. She has a tremendous responsibility and she, in fact, makes the decision. We can only stress on occasions such as this that the life of the unborn child is very important and cannot be treated as something without any real value or worth. The motion before us requires the most careful consideration of all honourable members because the decision of the House will certainly influence the attitudes of people in all parts of Australia. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The pamphlet was first distributed by the former Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development in early 1976. It was withdrawn in September 1977 as part of a regular updating of information pamphlets. In the case of this pamphlet, the text was taken from adapted extracts of the 1970 Report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. Since the 1970 Senate Report, there have been developments in the handling, solidification and storage of high level radioactive wastes that warranted a revision to the pamphlet. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Department is not aware of asbestos having been used in the ceilings of houses and the National Capital Development Commission has stated that asbestos has never been specified for use as insulation in government houses in the ACT. 
See 1 above. 
However the Department has a Technical Directive which governs Departmental operations which involve handling or use of asbestos or asbestos containing products. Topics covered include general information, uses of asbestos and safe working with asbestos. 
and (4) See 1 above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
Overseas Travel by Ministers (Question No. 3121) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Investigations into the feasibility of introducing solar hot water systems in houses were undertaken by my Department some 25 years ago, and the results of those investigations contributed towards the formulation of Government policy in this area. 
Since 19S9 it has been Government policy to instal solar hot water systems in all Commonwealth owned houses where such systems are technically suitable and cost effective. 
Up to the early nineteen-seventies Australia featured the world's largest number of solar hot water systems, most of which were provided by my Department in Commonwealth houses. 
Departmental practice in the use of solar hot water systems has since been extended to all buildings, subject to technical suitability, economic considerations and acceptance by clients. 
The installed cost of a solar hot water system for a family of four averages approximately S90O on an Australiawide basis, and ranges from about $750 in the accessible sub-tropical region in northern Australia to the order of $ 1 ,200 in the colder south-eastern parts of the continent. 
For the average user the difference in running costs between a solar and a non-solar hot water system would amount to approximately $40 per annum in Melbourne. For Darwin this difference would increase to some $130 per annum. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The current maximum permissible levels of lead in petrol in Australia are: 
0.45 gm/litre in Victoria, Tasmania and the Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle areas of NSW. 
0.64 gm/litre in other areas of NSW. 
No other State or Territory has legislated limits for lead in petrol. 
Prior to the introduction of controls on lead additives by some States, a uniform voluntary maximum of 0.84 gm/litre applied throughout Australia. 
The following regulated lead levels have been or are expected to be introduced in Australia. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of patrol boat base, Cairns, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the construction of facilities necessary to accommodate and maintain the new and larger Fremantle class patrol boats due to start arriving progressively from October 1980 and other small Naval ships providing coastal surveillance in Northern Australian Waters. 
The proposal consists of the following works: 
A jetty and a wharf providing four alongside berths for vessels of size that will normally be based at Cairns and fitted with the necessary services to the berthing points including fuel; 
A covered maintenance berth for two Fremantle class patrol boats to allow efficient and effective maintenance and stores replenishment during wet weather; 
A workshop; 
A store to accommodate items in constant use with a high turnover rate, likely to be required at short notice, or requiring special storage; 
A command-administration building; 
Miscellaneous small facilities including a small boat shed and ramp, flammable store, security control post, and covered parking for service vehicles; 
It is no secret that the Government has for some time been reviewing the principal environmental protection legislation in order to spell out properly the role of the States in supervising the protection of the environment in Australia, to ensure that overlapping and possible duplication of effort is avoided so that expense incurred by companies and people involved is kept to a minimum and io make the Act generally more efficient. The honourable member suggested that this review has been secretive. As the former Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development I mentioned on a number of occasions, in public announcements and speeches, that this revision and review was being carried out. There is nothing secret about it whatsoever. Anyone has the opportunity if he wishes to provide comment to the Government on any aspect of the legislation and to suggest ways in which it might be improved. In that context the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation to which the honourable member referred has the opportunity and the right to comment. It is aware, of course, of the review that is being carried out. We would welcome any comments the Committee might make. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Royal Australian Navy Research LAboratories (RANRL)- Relocation to Pyrmont, NSW. 
This proposal concerns the relocation of the Royal Australian Navy Research Laboratory from unsatisfactory accommodation at Rushcutters Bay to the Royal Edward Victualling Yard premises at Pyrmont. The works proposed include alteration and renovation of the existing eight storey building to provide office space, research laboratories and workshop space with necessary amenities areas. The work will be done in a way to preserve the historical status of the building. Construction of a perimeter security fence, gate control, official government vehicle garage, drivers' room and flammable liquids store are also included in the proposal. The  estimated cost of the works at February 1979 prices is $2.54m. I now table plans of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) See the table below. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The air quality data contained in Tables1 to 4 that follow have been obtained from the National Air Quality Data Centre presently being set up by the Department of 
Science and the Environment. The information has been derived from available data sources over the years indicated, published by State and Commonwealth bodies concerned with air quality monitoring. Where data for a city or for a year has not been presented, no monitoring of the pollutant has been carried out. It will be noted that, in general, data are only available for Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. The data tables contain the average and maximum levels of pollutants. The number of days that the World Health Organisation goals have been exceeded at urban monitoring stations in each major city are also presented in the tables. 
The atmosphere over any point on the earth's surface is never without some sort of temperature inversion such as the tropopause which occurs at an altitude of about 9 to 16 kilometres. The type of temperature inversion with a potential for affecting the air quality of any locality is much lower, typically up to about 1000 metres above the surface. The detection of such inversions require specialised equipment. The systematic study of these inversions is being developed in the major Australian cities by the Bureau of Meteorology, the CSIRO and others, but comprehensive long-term statistics on their occurrence are as yet not available. 
The air quality standards and goals for various countries and organisations, compiled from the latest available information, are shown in Table S. There are no promulgated standards in Australia but the WHO long-term goals are often used as a reference for assessing air quality in this country. The European Economic Community has not established any air quality standards. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The rate of receipt of applications was very high in the last three months of 1 977-78. 
In many cases applicants do not initially provide all the information requested. In these cases it is necessary to seek further information before a grant can be approved. 
(a) $20m in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1977-78. ( b ) $ 1 4m in Appropriation Act ( No. 3 ) 1 977-78. 
No. See ( 1)above 
I was made aware of the honourable member's interest in this subject some time ago and I happen to have some information with me on this occasion. It is a timely question, not because of something which is about to happen in Victoria on Saturday, but because my Department only recently completed an analysis of the last census which indicates that the rate of home ownership in Victoria is 7 1 .5 per cent, and that is the highest rate of any State in the Commonwealth. It is higher than the New Zealand national rate of 70 per cent which is said to be the highest in the world. It is fair to say that an analysis of the figures that are available of various States and countries around the world shows that Victoria is the home ownership champion of the world. That is a big statement, but it is based upon fact. Victoria is the Muhammed Ali of home ownership, if you like. That is based on the authoritative information that we have available as a department. 
The figures available from the census back in 1947 indicate that the home ownership rate in Victoria then was 52.7 per cent. That has now increased to 7 1.5 per cent, which indicates a very significant improvement in home ownership in Victoria since 1947. I cannot understand the comments being made by people in Victoria that the home ownership rate has been reduced in recent times. In fact it is to the contrary. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  relating to the establishment and declaration of Kakadu National Park. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Briefly, the purpose of this Bill is to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and to give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings other than from the Commonwealth, to enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment by the Commission of moneysborrowed other than from the Commonwealthand to provide that where securities are issued by the Commission, repayment is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. The opportunity is also being taken to make a number of technical amendments to some provisions in Part II of the Act which relate to the procedures, powers and operations of the Commission. 
On 25 August 1977 the Government announced its policy that development of the Ranger uranium deposit would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd. In this regard, honourable members will recall that in June last year, the Atomic Energy Act was amended to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to participate on behalf of the Commonwealth in a joint venture with Peko-EZ. They will also recall that on 9 January 1 979 the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  signed the agreements and issued an authority under section 4 1 of the Atomic Energy Act to give effect to the Memorandum of Understanding. These documents were tabled in the Parliament on 20 February this year. In his Budget Speech of 1 5 August 1978, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  noted that a certain proportion of the Commonwealth's share of the costs of developing the Ranger uranium deposits would be raised by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission through borrowings. 
The existing provisions in section 27 of the Atomic Energy Act are inadequate to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys on the semi-government market. Specifically the provisions do not authorise the Treasurer to guarantee borrowings by the Commission, and without such a guarantee the Commission would be unable to borrow within the maximum rates agreed by Loan Council for semi-government borrowings. The provisions of the Bill are designed to provide power for the Commission to issue public securities and to provide guarantee powers thereto. Clause 6 of the Bill amends a number of financial provisions of the existing Act In relation Lo borrowings by the Commission the amendments, which are in line with borrowing powers of other Commonwealth authorities, provide that the Commission may borrow moneys from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and may give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings. New section 30 sub-sections (5) and (6) enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment of such borrowings and payment of interest. Provision is also included in new section 28 sub-section (2) for investment of moneys of the Commission not immediately required for the purposes of the Commission. 
Division 3 of the Act concerning staff of the Commission is repealed by the Bill and replaced with staffing provisions to bring the Act into line with more recent provisions applying to the staff of statutory authorities. These provisions retain the co-ordinating role of the Public Service Board in relation to terms and conditions of staff employed by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. In addition to amendments to the borrowing powers of the Commission which, as mentioned earlier, are contained in clause 6 of the Bill, that clause also makes technical amendments to a number of financial provisions of the existing Act concerning payment to the Commission of moneys appropriated by Parliament, use of bank accounts, application of moneys by the Commission, preparation of estimates, keeping of accounts and audit of accounts. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's undertaking to restructure the Pipeline Authority. The Bill varies several functions of the Authority prescribed in the Act. Firstly, several of the present functions considered inappropriate for the Authority are to be deleted. With the passage of the Bill, the Authority will no longer have unlimited power to buy and sell petroleum nor will it be required to ensure: Continuity of supplies of natural gas that is free from impurities; uniform gate-valve delivery prices throughout Australia; the retention and processing in Australia of condensate, petroleum gas and other substances derived from natural gas; and the control of petroleum reserves. 
Secondly, the Bill clarifies the role of the Authority in the construction of pipelines. In future, any proposed pipeline construction project will require the specific authorisation of the Parliament. The Bill for the construction of a new pipeline will contain details of the route, limits of deviation and cost estimates. Thirdly, the Authority's advisory role is being clarified in the 
Bill. The Authority will be empowered to provide advice with respect to the conveyance or distribution of petroleum within Australia by means of pipelines to the Minister and, as approved by the Minister, to other bodies and people. This function will ensure that the Government has available advice from a body that has experience in the construction, maintenance and operation of a pipeline and that, in appropriate circumstances, advice can be provided to other organisations and individuals. 
The Bill also amends the provisions on membership of the Authority. The Authority will continue to have five members but in future the Secretary to the Department of National Development will not be a member ex-officio. Provision is made for the appointment of a Deputy Chairman. The opportunity is also being taken to bring a number of provisions in the Act into line with provisions in other legislation establishing statutory authorities. In particular, the Bill places the Authority in a statutory relationship with the Public Service Board on matters relating to the staff of the Authority in line with government policy directed towards similar working conditions for all who are in government employment. The proposed amendments to the financial provisions of the Act will bring the legislation more into line with comparable provisions in other statutory authority legislation. 
In conducting its business, the Authority is required to act in accordance with sound commercial principles and is funded only by way of its own earnings and borrowings on which it is required to pay interest. The Authority is generating sufficient cash flow to meet the costs of its day-to-day operations and also make a contribution towards its interest commitments to the Commonwealth Government. In brief, within a short time following completion of the MoombaSydney pipeline the Authority has become a net contributor to the Budget. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I welcome the Oil Spills report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. My Department is currently studying the report, including the recommendation to which the honourable member refers. I also refer the honourable member to the Minister for Transport's reply in this House to Question No. 3 1 56 on 6 March 1979. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I welcome the Oil Spills report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. My Department is currently studying the report, including the recommendation to which the honourable member refers. I also refer the honourable member to the Minister for Transport's reply in this House to Question No. 3 156 on 6 March 1979. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
State Governments are responsible for the protection, land tenure and land use of coastal wetlands and it is not the policy of this Government to directly intervene in matters which are the prerogative of the States. 
Since the first European settlement began swamps and wetlands have been drained for agriculture, grazing, urban development and other uses. In recent times, however, a great awareness has developed of the undesirable side effects of the loss of coastal wetlands. The Commonwealth, which owns or controls a number of such areas, is particularly conscious of its responsibilities. 
The extensive coastal wetlands of the Alligator Rivers Region to be incorporated in Kakadu National Park will be protected in accordance with a plan of management for the park. 
The Management of that part of Towra Point in N.S. W. acquired by the Commonwealth Government and containing wetlands of international importance will be subject to negotiations with N.S.W. authorities aimed towards the long term conservation of the area and its native fauna and flora. 
The Australian Heritage Commission which lies within the portfolio of the Minister for Home Affairs has advised that it has proposed for inclusion on the Register of the National Estate a number of significant wetland areas in all States and that the Government has provided funds through the National Estate Grants Program to identify wetlands of scientific and conservation significance. 
CSIRO, through its Division of Land Use Research, undertook recently an investigation of the feasibility of an Australia-wide wetlands survey. This included a preliminary review of the literature on Australian wetlands, a number of pilot field studies, mapping of wetlands in New South Wales and Victoria for the production of an Australia-wide map on the distribution of wetlands, and a study of the hydrological aspects of wetlands. 
In addition, CSIRO 's Division of Land Use Research recently completed an inventory of coastal lands of Australia which included information about the wetlands in a three kilometre wide coastal zone. The data, which has been computerised, could be of considerable assistance in planning the protection of coastal wetlands. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has announced an inquiry into Coastal Zone Management in Australia. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Commissioners (Question No. 323S) 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  ( 1), (2) and (3) The report of the Australian Littoral Society was received in April 1978 and released publicly with the approval of the responsible NSW Minister and the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The report is still under consideration by the Commonwealth and NSW Governments. 
The question contains two parts. As far as the first part is concerned, the situation is that finance for housing is now readily available in all States of the Commonwealth. The availability of finance is not in any sense a constraint on the level of activity in the housing industry. This has occurred because of strong growth in the amount of funds flowing from the major lending institutions over the past 12 months but, in particular, since the time of the last Budget because of decisions which were announced in that Budget. The total volume of lending by banks and permanent building societies in the current financial year is forecast to be about 15 per cent higher than the amount flowing from those major lending institutions in the financial year 1977-78. It would be of interest to honourable members to know that the Australian Bureau of Statistics figures on lending for housing by the permanent building societies for the March quarter were released at noon today. The key points in respect of the loan approvals by those societies are that total approvals in the March quarter of this year were 14 per cent higher than approvals in the December quarter of last year, 41 per cent higher than approvals in the March quarter of 1978- the same period of last year- and at the highest level of any calendar quarter since the December quarter of 1 975. 
The second part of the question related to building costs. Certainly, there has been a great improvement in relation to building costs in recent times. If we look back to the financial year 1974-75 we see that under the Labor administration the cost of home building materials rose by 2 1.2 per cent in that financial year. In the calendar year 1978 the price of new houses increased on a national average basis by only 3.2 per cent, which was a really significant improvement. The price of house building materials rose by a relatively low figure of 7.3 per cent in the year to March 1979. The Government's intention certainly is to continue with its policies. No doubt, further successes will result from those policies. They have placed home ownership clearly within the reach of many more people within the Australian community and they are leading to a good, solid and steady recovery in the building and construction industry in Australia. 
One must take an overall view of the situation. As I pointed out in my last answer, one sees a significant improvement between the situation prevailing in 1974-75- when I think the Leader of the Opposition was Treasurer- and the situation prevailing now. There has been a dramatic improvement in that time. I think it is fair to say that in recent weeks and months there have been some inflationary pressures which have resulted, to a very large extent, from the wages push and an increase in pressures in that area. But we believe, on advice, that this is only a pause in the general downward trend. With a continuation of the policies we have adopted, which are proving extremely successful and are recognised as such by the building industry and those who want to buy houses, it is clear that that success will continue and that the trend will be downwards. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Judge's (Long Leave Payments) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat came into force on 2 1 December 1975. The Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals came into force on 1 1 March 1978. 
Australia became a party to the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage on 22 August 1 974 and the Convention came into force on 19 December 1975. 
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora came into force on 27 October 1976. 
Regulations pertaining to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora have been made under the Customs Act 1901. These Customs (Endangered Species) Regulations were promulgated on 30 September 1976 and came into operation 27 October 1976. 
-I think the honourable member for Reid should give some credit where credit is due. The downward trend, which certainly had existed in the home building industry, has now largely been arrested. It is clear from the figures available that the industry is entering a period of relative stability. This is recognised by those who appreciate and understand the figures and who closely examine the figures which are available. Recently I talked about the level of housing finance that is available. At the moment that is satisfactory and that fact is appreciated by those involved in the industry. 
As I was saying, I mentioned in the House recently that the level of housing finance is satisfactory at the moment. There has been a tremendous increase in the total volume of finance flowing to those seeking housing around Australia from the private lenders, the banks and the permanent building societies. This is providing greater opportunities for those who wish to purchase their own homes. The honourable member for Reid mentioned commencements. Certainly in the December quarter commencements were not as high as we would like them to have been but the forward indicators for the industry are looking quite good at the moment. The loan approval figures are up, as has been mentioned. If we look at loan approvals for the three months to February 1979 compared with the three months to February 1978, we see that there was an 18 per cent increase - 
-I think the honourable member for Reid has to try to understand something more about the housing market. A great deal of data is available on housing and housing construction in Australia but the early indicators are loan approvals and dwelling approvals. If we look at both of those primary and early indicators, as I am endeavouring to tell the House, the situation is looking very much better than it was previously. So the total position is improving. I think that that has to be appreciated by the honourable member for Reid. I just ask the honourable member, through you,  Mr Speaker  - 
As I was saying, finance for the housing sector is up, and building approvals are up. If we look at the non-housing sector, again a significant improvement is evident. For example, private activity in the non-housing sector increased in the 1977-78 financial year. That was the first significant increase after six years of decline. I think that must be understood. So there is a very great improvement there as well. We think that that sort of improvement will continue into this financial year and into the foreseeable future. 
-I think that there might be a difference in philosophy between that espoused by the honourable member and that in which the Government has a belief. The Government does see value in encouraging those in private enterprise- especially the small businessman and the small private contractor- to be involved in the construction industry because the Government sees it as being a more efficient system. So the Government is encouraging the private sector to be involved more and more in construction in the government sector in this country. It would also hope that the State governments will continue to follow the same trend and be encouraged by the sort of things that this Government is achieving. 
The position is that these people are private contractors and the individuals are protected. For example, the man working under a private contractor is protected by the safety legislation in all of the States of the Commonwealth. He is protected in regard to compensation and in other ways. The individual working for a contractor is covered by workers compensation in the same way as any other employee. There are selfemployed persons in the private sector, such as small contractors, who are employing other individuals. The other individuals are covered by workers compensation if they are working for an employer who happens to be a small businessman. The self-employed contractor who is employing individuals must cover those individuals by workers compensation. That is the situation. If he happens to be an individual, selfemployed person then he protects himself in the way any other self-employed person would protect himself. The situation is that this is private enterprise, which this Government wants to encourage. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Migration Amendment Bill is a timely initiative of the Government to provide responsible and effective regulation of the entry to and stay in Australia of people from overseas. In the 2 1 years since the Migration Act was passed the character of the Australian community has markedly changed, with radical amendment to immigration policies and in the volume and nature of movements into and out of Australia. Changing conditions in other countries tend to increase the attraction of Australia for many people, making the task of control more difficult. The Act itself is a 1958 measure being tested by 1979 circumstances, and in some respects being found wanting. 
The basic mechanisms for controlling entry and residence must reflect the attitudes and interests of the community. They must operate to protect the community from the entry and residence of people the community does not wish to enter Australia or remain here as residents. The legislation must provide the powers to enable these mechanisms to be used effectively- to prevent entry, to enforce departure when necessary and to impose adequate penalties to deter would-be offenders. Most travellers respect Australia's immigration laws. Unfortunately, there are some who enter or remain illegally in Australia, regarding breaches of immigration laws and policies as offences of small significance. Indeed, there are those in the community who actively encourage people to break the law and evade controls and who find prohibited immigrants a lucrative source of income. 
Clearly, people who try to evade immigration controls should gain no advantage over those many others who, being also ineligible to migrate to Australia, are prepared to abide by the rules. The limits which must be set to the migrant intake are easily met through the regular processes of interview, medical examination and selection in offices around the world- criteria which are not applied to people entering temporarily or illegally. Individuals cannot be allowed to make their own rules about staying on and taking employment. Indeed, it is a fundamental and internationally accepted principle that every country has the right to determine who may enter and who may remain within its boundaries. Australia is no exception, and the Government reserves to itself the right to set the conditions under which people may enter Australia and remain in Australia. It believes that immigration laws and procedures should be observed and followed just as any other Australian law should be observed. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make essential amendments to the Migration Act without changing the basic concepts in the existing legislation. In 1958 when the Migration Act was passed, there were an estimated 1.57 million overseas-born members of the Australian population. Perhaps almost half of these were pre-war settlers of long standing. The remainder were relatively new post-war arrivals. In total, people born overseas other than in Europe, including Britain, were of the order of only 160,000. By 1978 the overseas-born component had almost doubled to an estimated 2.8 million and it included settlers from every continent. This diversified expansion of the overseas-born component of the population reflects itself in the changed demographic and ethnic composition of Australia. 
In 1958 Australia was strongly seeking migrants. Immigration restrictions applied mainly to people of non-European origin. The occupational categories actively sought by Australia almost covered the whole spectrum of occupations, including unskilled workers. Earlier policies based on an intake of migrants predominantly British had been abandoned but British migration was still seen as the dominant element in the migrant intake. The intake from the relatively few other main source countries, all of which were in Europe, was nevertheless, by 1958, quite high. Nor was it subject to restraint. There was little need or incentive for people who wanted to settle here to resort to subterfuge if they were of European origin. 
By 1 973 discrimination on grounds of race had disappeared from immigration selection policy. That was a policy evolved by several governments of both political persuasions. The present level of immigration for settlement is relatively low, with an emphasis on encouraging only those skills in short supply. In 1977-78 it was about 80 per cent of the level of the 1 958-59 intake despite the wider range of source countries from which settlers came. In this regard, I draw the attention of honourable members to the Minister's statement, 'Immigration Policies and Australia's Population', of 7 June 1978 which emphasised the Government's recognition of immigration as a necessary element in economic growth. The Government's program acknowledges the case for caution in current conditions but is sensitive to family reunion and to humanitarian and international responsibilities. We are pursuing a longterm approach to population building in which immigration is the only directable factor. The fact that the Australian community is now barely reproducing itself must recommend an effective immigration policy and program to all persons who genuinely have the future welfare of this nation in mind. While the volume of intake of migrants for settlement is at a relatively low level, the level of people entering as tourist or business visitors, to undertake approved temporary employment and in other non-migrant categories has increased enormously, rising at the rate of about 5 per cent per year. The changes that have taken place in total movement of this category are illustrated by the figures of 395,000 in 1958 and 3.4 million in 1977-78, an increase of more than 800 percent. 
I invite attention to the increase in the volume of air movement. More than 98 per cent of arrivals are by air, and have increased from 86,300 in 1958 to almost 1.7 million in 1977-78. In the same period, the arrivals by sea declined from 144,000 to 33,000. The relatively low volume of admission for settlement in more recent years inevitably prompts attempts to circumvent immigration policies and procedures either by malpractice or by entering for allegedly temporary purposes but then staying on without authority. It is estimated that there are approximately 57,000 prohibited immigrants in the country at this time. The Government is determined to stem the flow and to reduce the numbers already here competing with citizens for employment and other benefits. No Government can abdicate its responsibilities in this area. In this I am sure it has the support of all honourable members as well as the general community. 
The first of the principal changes is the introduction of a statutory visa system. This is provided for by clause 9 of the Bill. A visa is a document or notation specifically in the form of a stamped impression in a passport which informs the carrier company and immigration officer at the port of arrival in Australia that the holder, prima facie, may enter Australia. However, a visa is not, in itself, an authority to enter. Under the existing Migration Act the legal entry authority is an entry permit issued at the point of arrival. In general, however, a visa holder may expect to receive an entry permit on arrival. Thus Australia's entry control is based on the issue of a visa overseas and the grant of an entry permit on arrival in Australia. The visa system is almost universally used as a travel facilitation and control mechanism. A visa system for intending travellers to Australia has been in force administratively for many years. It has lacked statutory backing. Given the changes in the nature and volume of entry of people into Australia and the need in the light of recent review legislation for every major procedure to have its foundation in law, it has become necessary for it to be given a statutory basis in the Migration Act. The Bill provides therefore, in clause 9, that a visa or return endorsement may be granted to a person by an authorised officer and that that person may seek an entry permit upon arrival in Australia. I emphasise for the information of honourable members that Australian citizens travelling on Australian passports will not require visas or return endorsements. 
It will be an offence under clause 9 for a carrier to bring a person, other than an Australian citizen or an exempt person, to Australia without a visa or return endorsement. The Offence will be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000. The Bill provides for the classes of persons who are exempt from visa requirements to be notified in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  and, in addition, individual carriers will be notified, as in the past, of any changes in visa requirements. The section will also provide carriers with a defence to a prosecution if the vessel was forced into Australia due to stress of weather or in circumstances of emergency, or where the carrier reasonably believed that when a person last boarded a vessel for travel to Australia, the person was an Australian citizen, a visa holder or an exempt person. The persons to be exempted from holding a visa will generally be New Zealand citizens or international travellers in transit through Australia to another destination. 
Under the amendments to be made by clauses 20 and 2 1 of the Bill it will also be possible to require carriers to remove from Australia passengers who, on arrival in Australia, have sought and been refused an entry permit. This requirement will be applicable to persons arriving by ship or by aircraft. It is not an unusual requirement. There is ample international precedent. The search for persons who breach the immigration law is an expensive and an unwanted burden on the Australian taxpayer. Thus the second major innovation included in the Bill is the introduction in clause 12 of a requirement that deportees meet the cost of their detention awaiting deportation and of their removal from Australia where they are in a position to do so. There have been numerous cases where the Commonwealth has been required to pay the fares of deportees who have, by acting contrary to their conditions of temporary entry, accumulated substantial assets in this country. There are others who see it as a laudable achievement when they cash their return ticket and are sent home at cost to the Australian taxpayer. Under the present legislation deportees cannot be required to pay costs associated with their detention or removal even though they have accumulated a considerable amount of money in Australia by engaging in unauthorised employment or have valid tickets for travel out of Australia. In the period 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1978, 2,157 deportations were effected. It is estimated that the requirement for deportees to pay costs of deportation will result in savings to the Commonwealth of over $200 per deportee for fares. In addition, I believe that the deterrent effect of the provision will be significant. Legislation in respect of deportation costs is already in force in a number of countries. New Zealand has legislation to cover this, as does Great Britain. 
The third significant measure dealt with by the Bill is the introduction of offences for temporary entrants and prohibited immigrants who engage in employment in Australia without authority. At present, visitors to Australia give an undertaking at the time of visa issue that they will not work in Australia, but it is not an offence for them to engage subsequently in employment. Similarly, it is not an offence for a prohibited immigrant to work in Australia. Most prohibited immigrants apprehended by departmental officials in the course of their investigations are either working or have been in employment in Australia.  (Quorum formed). 
In addition, there is little doubt that many of the approximately 57,000 prohibited immigrants in Australia are working partly in order to sustain themselves. Some of what they earn is sent abroad to maintain families and relatives overseas. That is perhaps understandable but it represents a notable capital outflow instigated by people who are filling jobs which should otherwise be available to unemployed Australian residents. There must be limits to our community tolerance of such matters. 
Clause 4 of the Bill will provide for the grant of a temporary entry permit subject to conditions relating to work. Clause 19 will provide for an offence where a person contravenes a condition in respect of work or where a prohibited immigrant performs any work in Australia without the written permission of an authorised officer of the Department. The penalty for this offence will be a fine not exceeding $1,000. The Bill also provides in clause 19 for new offences where a person makes a false statement in connection with an application for work or uses a forged authority for work. These offences will attract a maximum penalty of $1,000. The introduction of these offences is indicative of the concern with which the Government views this growing problem. I point out that the Government's attitude is consistent with that in many other countries, including New Zealand and Canada, where it is an offence for unauthorised persons to engage in employment. 
The fourth significant change picks up the fact that the existing penalties in the Migration Act have remained unchanged since the legislation was passed in 1958. The Bill increases the penalties specified in the Act to bring them into line with current levels of penalties for equally serious offences in other Commonwealth legislation. The Bill also introduces three new penalties, two of which I have already referred tonamely, when carriers convey people to Australia without proper documentation and when temporary entrants and prohibited immigrants work without authority. The other penalty relates to deportees who return to Australia without authority. 
Honourable members will recall that on 10 August 1978 the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs announced that from that date prohibited immigrants who had been deported from Australia for any reason would be barred from re-entering Australia for a period of five years, except in the most compelling circumstances. If deportees gain re-entry to Australia by subterfuge, it is only proper that they should be liable to a penalty as well as second deportation at their expense. The Government cannot, in the public interest, tolerate breaches of our entry requirements and controls. The Government considers the penalty of $ 1,000 or six months imprisonment to be reasonable punishment and a prospective deterrent. Other provisions in the Bill are of a technical nature, designed to improve control mechanisms and to correct deficiencies. They do not introduce major changes in policy or vary the basic concepts currently embodied in the legislation. 
The dominance of international travel by fast jet aircraft and the large increase in the number of arrivals since the present Act was introduced have revealed a number of deficiencies in control procedures that were unknown or not exploitable in the more leisurely days of sea-travel or early international air travel. The demands on control procedures are aggravated in Australia because, due to our geographical position and airport curfews, arrivals and departures are not evenly spaced throughout the day, taking place within relatively short peak periods with necessarily brief turn-around periods. 
A number of these provisions arose out of the recommendations of a management review which reported on its investigation of immigration policies and procedures in July of last year. The review conducted by a consultant, the Public Service Board and the Department, examined problems confronting the Department and their causes, and evaluated options for changes to the Migration Act. The Government believes that the Bill will provide for a considerable increase in control capacity while new immigration legislation is being developed. These are measures which deserve, and I believe will enjoy, bipartisan support. The impact will not be discriminatory nor is that the intent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Bounty (Dental Alloys) Bill and the Bounty (Paper) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of each of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The presently accepted standards for (a) hydrocarbons, (b) oxides of nitrogen and (c) carbon monoxide in motor vehicle emissions in (i) Australia, (ii) the United States, (iii) the European Economic Community, (iv) Japan and (v) Canada are shown in the following tables. In the tables, overseas regulations have been compiled from the latest available information. 
In each case (a) the changes that have occurred in these standards over the last 10 years and (b) the future scheduled changes in these standards are also indicated in the following tables. 
Table 6 provides a comparison of test cycles which illustrates the complexity of the test procedures and the differences between them. It underlines the difficulty in undertaking meaningful comparisons between the regulations adopted by countries which use different test procedures. 
-Mr Horrie Higgs has been appointed by the Minister as full-time Acting  Chairman  of the Authority.  Mr Higgs  has been a very well respected officer of the Environment Division over a number of years and has been very active in ensuring that the environment of Australia has been properly protected. The honourable member asked a number of detailed questions. I will take those on notice and refer them to the Minister. I will let the honourable member have a full answer as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Environment (Financial Assistance) Act 1977 I present a copy of an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and Tasmania in relation to the provision of financial assistance made under that Act together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to the Agreement. 
I intend to ignore the personal abuse and sarcasm sprinkled throughout the speech by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  Rather, I will try to determine whether he made any genuine points which require comment and I will answer or refute them. Firstly, he seemed to say that the Government has not given any clear assurance that the Great Barrier Reef will not be harmed by oil drilling. Secondly, he said that the Australian Labor Party is and was totally opposed to oil drilling in the region of the reef. He did not use those exact words but that was the import of what he said. Thirdly, he seemed to attempt to suggest that the Government has not been sufficiently active to ensure the conservation of the Great Barrier Reef. Fourthly, he seemed to say that the Government should rush ahead, declare the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and totally ignore the complex constitutional issues involved and any rights and interests that the Queensland Government might have in the matter. There is absolutely no substance or truth in any of the allegations which the honourable member made. I shall deal with them in order. 
The first issue concerns the Government's assurance on oil drilling. The House is well aware of the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and a number of other Ministers have given clear assurances many times that theovernment will not allow any activity to take place on the reef or in the region of the reef which would cause harm to it. I will read to the House the answer that the Prime Minister gave to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  when he asked a question this week. Giving a further assurance, the Prime Minister said: 
I have already made it clear to the House that the Government will not permit any drilling on the Great Barrier Reef or any drilling or mining which could damage the reef. That is a categoric and absolute guarantee. 
I do not know what form of assurance the honourable member wants from the Government but I believe-and I think that any rightminded honourable member would believe, that that assurance is very clear. We will allow no action which might in any sense cause harm to the reef. Nothing could be clearer than that. 
The second issue involves the Australian Labor Party's policy. This is a very interesting subject of which the House needs to take note. I refer to a comment made by  Senator Wriedt  in the other place in a debate on 8 May this year about the possibility of oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. He said: 
The Labor Party was - 
I stress the word ' was'- and is opposed to oil drilling in the Barrier Reef area. 
I have done a little research and I have come across Press statement No. 504 made by  Mr Whitlam  on 23 May 1975 when he was Prime Minister. Again, the House should take careful note of these words. He said: 
The Government agreed with the stand of the  Chairman  of the Commissions on the principal term of reference ( No. 3 ) that no drilling should be permitted in the area of the Reef until such time as reliable scientific information is available on the effects of oil on the Reef and its organisms. 
That certainly was not an indication that at that time the then Labor Government - 
The honourable member asks: What has that got to do with it?' I will explain that in a moment. The then Labor Government certainly was not totally opposed to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The inference from that statement by the then Prime Minister is that he was saying: 'All right, we need to do some research. Once that research is completed we might well go ahead with mining and oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. I do not know whether the honourable member for Robertson, in opposition, has suddenly done a turnaround and developed some concern for this subject which he did not have when his party was in government. Did he ask any questions on the subject? Did he raise any matters of public importance at that time? What is the policy of the Australian Labor Party now? Is the Labor Party saying that there is to be no drilling or mining in the region? 
-What about drilling or mining outside the region? What is its policy in that respect? I do not know whether the honourable member has any answer to that question. It is interesting to note that there are a number of reefs outside the region of the Great Barrier Reef such as the Osprey Reef, the Bougainville Reef, the Holmes Reef, the Flinders Reefs, the Willis Group, the Lihou Reef, Lihou Cays and the Marion Reef. These are all reefs outside the region. I mention them only to indicate the complexity of the matter. The Opposition appears to be saying that it wants nothing to occur within the region but that it will be okay to mine and drill outside the region. That seems to be the inference to be drawn from what honourable members opposite are saying. I think that they need to look carefully at their policies. There is a good deal of hypocrisy in what they are saying. On 8 May  Senator Wriedt  said that the Labor Party's policy has always been that it is opposed to mining and drilling for oil in the reef. The fact is that that was not the ALP policy. There are a number of uncertainties about what its policy is. 
I restate to the House that this Government has a genuine and real concern for and interest in the Great Barrier Reef. We recognise it as probably the greatest natural asset we have in Australia. We want to preserve and protect it. We will not allow it to be harmed. That is what we have been saying for many months. I do not know when honourable members opposite will understand and appreciate what we have been saying. The suggestion is that we have done very little to protect the reef in the time we have been in government. I remind honourable members of the actions we have taken which reflect our concern for this great natural treasure. 
I will list a number of things which we have done as a government. In September 1976 we appointed the members of the Great Barrier Reef Consultatitive Committee pursuant to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act. During 1977-78 the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was established at its permanent headquarters in Townsville by the present Government. That Authority has met frequently to consider matters relating to the protection of the Barrier Reef. The staff and consultants of the Authority have been involved in wide-ranging studies relating to the Barrier Reef, its protection and preservation. For example, the Authority held a major workshop in April 1978 to review the state of knowledge about the resources and utilisation of the Barrier Reef extending north from Lizard Island. I had the good fortune to perform the opening ceremony and attend part of that workshop. It certainly was a very valuable exercise and a great deal was learned. The Authority made funds available to assist the Bureau of Mineral Resources in a basic program of biological research into the evolution and structure of the reefs of the Capricornia area. A survey of recreational usage of the Barrier Reef was completed in November 1977. All these things were sponsored by the present Government. A bibliography of literature relating to the Barrier Reef was completed in April 1978. 
You say: 'Terriffic'. It is very valuable, and has been recognised as such by the scientists who do have concern for the reef. It lists approximately 5,000 books, technical papers, popular articles, charts and films. The first phase of a major field program of physical survey and biological reconnaissance of the reefs of the Capricornia and Bunker groups was carried out by the Survey Branch of the Department of Administrative Services between April and June 1978. 1 could mention other actions which have been taken by the Government. All of those actions have clear purposes, and they are to ensure the conservation of the Great Barrier Reef and to see how it can be best cared for, to understand its ecology properly, to provide for sensitive yet sensible management of the reef. 
This is a joint exercise. It always has been a joint exercise, and that was made clear in the terms of the original legislation brought in by the previous Government. The whole exercise has been a joint one with the Queensland Government. For example, the three-man authority was established with one nominee from the Queensland Government being appointed. Initially  Sir Charles  Barton was Queensland's representative. He was succeeded by  Mr Schubert.  The processes of research and development of management techniques and methods have been undertaken in association with the State Government. I must say that there has been excellent support and co-operation from the State Government of Queensland. The Consultative Committee is again a joint exercise. It is a Commonwealth-State advisory body. So it is not a question of simply walking over Queensland; as the honourable member for Robertson suggests, or telling Queensland what to do. It is a joint exercise and that is the only way it can be effectively undertaken. 
The joint nature of these arrangements is underpinned by the constitutional questions which are now being discussed by the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Durack,  and with the Queensland Ministers. Questions concerning jurisdiction over the seas and submerged lands are particularly complex issues. The House knows that discussions are currently taking place between the various States and the Commonwealth following decisions that were reached at Premiers Conferences. So this is a complex matter and it would have been quite inappropriate to have declared the Park before a satisfactory framework had been developed for arrangements involving both the Commonwealth and the Queensland governments. It is irresponsible to suggest that the Government should ignore all these complexities- the scientific and constitutional issues- and press ahead to declare the marine park. Consistent with these considerations the Prime Minister, in a letter to my colleague the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on 19 December 1978, said: 
In all the circumstances I suggest that action in relation to the proposed proclamation be deferred until the outcome of the proposed discussions with Queensland is known. 
These discussions, as I have said, are now under way. The Commonwealth has been very active in proceeding towards the creation of plans for management and the declaration of this marine park. I believe the Government has acted very responsibly in this issue. It is a complex issue. It is not a simple one at all. All of our actions have had but one. aim and that has been to keep and to protect the Great Barrier Reef for the enjoyment and pleasure of all Australians. In all of these steps that I have mentioned today the paramount consideration has in fact been to preserve and to protect this region. The assurances that have been given by the Government, by the Prime Minister, by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, by me when I was the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, by  Senator Webster  and by others involved, have been very explicit and unequivocal. I believe that Opposition members have been inconsistent. They are now adopting scare mongering tactics. I believe that the purpose of those tactics simply is to score political points out of this issue. As I have said, we are concerned about the Great Barrier Reef. We want to see it protected and preserved. We will do all in our power to ensure that it is protected and preserved. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  raised a couple of issues and asked me to comment on them. I will take this opportunity to do so. The honourable member is under some misapprehension about the appointment of the  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. In fact he has been appointed under section 1 5 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act as the acting full-time  chairman,  not under section 10 of the Act as a permanent  chairman  of the body. I wish to read from some advice I have received from the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  concering the qualifications of  Mr Higgs. His  advice states: 
The newly appointed  Chairman  of the Marine Park Authority has many qualifications which fit him to perform the duties of his office. He has been at the centre of the Public Service involvement in the implementation of successive government's policies in relation to the environment. In 197 1  Mr Higgs  was appointed as First Assistant Secretary in charge of the newly created Office of Environment in the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. The Office of Environment subsequently became the core element for the Department of the Environment and Conservation formed in December 1972 with  Mr Higgs  as acting Secretary. Following his appointment as  Deputy  Secretary in June 1974  Mr Higgs  was responsible for oversighting preparation of environment protection legislation and the formulation and implementation of Federal environmental policies in relation to both national and international activities. He was Vice-Chairman of the OECD Environment Committee from 1974-76.  Mr Higgs  has held the position of Director of Environment with the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, and with the Department of Science and the Environment since March 1978. From March 1978 to April 1979 he also was acting  Chairman  of the Authority on a part time basis. In the circumstances, the fact that he does not have specific academic qualifications in marine biology does not seem significant. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) None. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information is generally correct, although some classifications of positions were still to be determined. 
Yes. The staffing proposal was not proceeded with. 
and (4) Yes. 
The introduction of staff ceilings, as part of the Government's policy of restraining public expenditure, required the former Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development to closely assess overall priorities. The decisions made regarding staffing to service the Indicative Planning Council in the States and in Canberra aimed to provide the highest possible service to the Council within the resource constraints. 
My Department is continuing to commit substantial staff resources to carry out research into the housing industry. With the creation of the Department of Housing and Construction, Regional Directors are able to provide additional support to the State Committees of the Indicative Planning Council when necessary. 
See 6. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a follows: 
1 ) The Department of Housing and Construction installs earth leakage circuit breakers in Commonwealth premises where required under local legislation or in particularly vulnerable situations, e.g. hospital operating theatres. 
The Electricity Supply Association of Australia (ESAA) whose membership is representative of practically all electricity supply undertakings in Australia, has appointed various ad-hoc committees to provide advice to electricity users about the principles of operation, the advantages and disadvantages and the application of these devices. The latest report known as 'Current Operated (CoreBalance) Earth Leakage Protection-D (b) 1 1/1976* is available from ESAA 
The report does not press for their use in domestic installations but considers that in certain industrial and similar installations the devices can offer distinct advantages. However the report also draws attention to the availability of other improved safety measures, the problems of 'nuisance tripping' and the need for the regular and frequent testing for satisfactory operation. 
The expenditure of funds for providing safety measures for Commonwealth employees above those of the current general community standard is considered unwarranted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department does not insist on the use of asbestos based materials for fire resistance purposes in laboratories, and where used, it is in the form of a highly compressed asbestos cement sheet coated with an epoxy glaze which is not a health hazard. 
My Department has been well aware of the hazard of sprayed asbestos and issued a Technical Directive in March 1977 which prohibits the further installation of sprayed asbestos and asbestos lagging in all government buildings and facilities. Since then the Department is progressively sealing previous installations of sprayed asbestos in all exposed situations, and is replacing sprayed asbestos and asbestos lagging in all situations with suitable alternative materials whenever major maintenance is required. This does not include asbestos cement sheeting which is not considered to be a health hazard.  1976 Census: Chinese Residents (Question No. 3728) 
-I thank the honourable member for Reid for his question because it gives me an opportunity to indicate to the House the improvement which is now taking place in the residential and non-residential side of the construction industry in Australia. As I have mentioned a number of times at public meetings and public forums, the figures on the improvement in the housing sector are very significant. They reveal an increase in employment in that area. Initially the Government was informed by the Bureau of Statistics that the December quarter figures showed a 4 per cent reduction in the number of commencements but those figures have been altered following receipt of further information. The Bureau's figures of commencements for the December quarter now show an increase of 3 per cent in that quarter. In the March quarter there was an 1 1 per cent increase in commencements over the December quarter of last year. So there has been a substantial increase in the number of houses being built around Australia in the last two quarters. 
In the calendar year 1978 over the calendar year 1977 there was a 10 per cent increase in real terms in the amount of construction in the private sector of the non-residential industry. Again, the result has been a substantial increase in employment. On the public side, the amount of money being spent by governments on public works around Australia remains at an historically high level. I believe that the honourable member for Reid should look at the figures, check them and understand them properly. The amount of money being spent on public works is at an historically high level. It will continue to be at that level this financial year and, I expect, in the next financial year. As a result there is now an increase in employment in the construction industry around Australia. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council on radiological safety and future land use at the Maralinga atomic weapons test range. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a research laboratory complex for CSIRO's Division of Chemical Technology, Clayton, Victoria. 
This proposal is for the construction of a complex to accommodate laboratories, administrative and support facilities for the Division of Chemical Technology which, since 1974, has been housed in temporary accommodation in South Melbourne, Victoria. The Clayton location is being developed as a major centre of Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation chemical research. The facilities will comprise: Organic and general chemical laboratories; technical laboratories for large scale research work; prototype industrial process bays for organic chemistry, general chemistry and pulp and paper; workshops and stores; and administrative accommodation and support facilities. Provision will be made for on-site car parking and landscaping which will complement existing site development. 
The .estimated cost of the proposed work examined by the Committee was $9.1m at February 1979 prices. The Committee recommended construction of the work in the reference. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of patrol boat base. Cairns, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the construction of facilities necessary to accommodate and maintain the new and larger Fremantle class patrol boats due to start arriving progressively from October 1980 and other small naval ships providing coastal surveillance in northern Australian waters. The proposal consists of the following works: 
A jetty and a wharf providing four alongside berths for vessels of size that will normally be based at Cairns and fitted with the necessary services to the berthing points including fuel; 
A covered maintenance berth for two Fremantle class patrol boats to allow efficient and effective maintenance and stores replenishment during wet weather; 
A workshop; 
A store to accommodate items in constant use with a high turnover rate, likely to be required at short notice, or requiring special storage facilities; 
A command-administration building; 
Miscellaneous small facilities including a small boat shed and ramp, flammable store, security control post, and covered parking for service vehicles; 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a new terminal complex at Coolangatta aerodrome, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the construction of a new terminal complex to replace an existing inadequate facility. The proposal consists of the following works: 
A terminal building accommodating public passenger, airline and concession areas; 
Aircraft movement areas comprising an apron, and connecting taxiways; 
Roads, car park, drainage and associated engineering services. 
The estimated cost of the proposal at May 1979 prices is $4.55m. I now table plans of the proposed work. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matters of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  concerning the implementation of recommendations of the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment on Wood Chips and the Environment. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on World Environment Day 1979 and what it means for Australia. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Indicative Planning Council for the housing industry for 1979-80 to 1981-82. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1 975 to facilitate the development of a township at Jabiru, which is located in the Kakadu National Park, consistent with the Government's announced policies on uranium mining development.  (Quorum formed).  The Kakadu National Park was proclaimed under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act on 5 April 1979 and was a major step in giving effect to the protective measures which the Government announced would be established in the Alligator Rivers Region before permitting mining of uranium to commence. 
The first stage declared covered an area of some 6,000 square kilometres. The area for stage II will as soon as practicable be declared a conservation zone under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act to ensure that the Park values are protected prior to its formal inclusion in the Park. In keeping with the recommendation of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry the Government decided that the mining town to serve mines developed in the region should be included in Kakadu National Park and should be a closed town with a limited population. The town will be developed on land leased from the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and will be subject to the plan of management. 
The National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act requires the Director of National Parks and Wildlife as soon as practicable after a park or reserve has been declared to prepare a plan of management in respect of that park or reserve. The Director has to follow a series of steps directed by the Act in preparing the plan of management, including the receipt of public submissions and making the plan available for comment by interested persons. There will also be close consultation with the Northern Territory Government and the Northern Land Council in the preparation of the plan of management. The Director then submits the plan to the Minister for Science and the Environment together with any representations made and comments by the Director on those representations. The Minister, when he is satisfied with the plan of management, will lay the plan before both Houses of Parliament. Either House of the Parliament, within 20 sitting days, may, in pursuance of a motion upon notice, pass a resolution disallowing the plan. If neither House passes a motion of disallowance, the plan of management then comes into operation. 
It was the Government's intention that by including the townsite in the National Park the town would be planned and managed in accord with the Park plan of management. Following the Government's decision in November last year, to allow the Ranger uranium deposit to be developed, increasing numbers of people are moving into the mining areas adjacent to the Park. It is important that an early commencement be made on preliminary construction work in relation to the Jabiru town to ensure that a properly developed town of high amenity is established as soon as practicable so that workers and their families are not accommodated in temporary camps any longer than is necessary. 
The Jabiru Town Development Authority, a statutory authority set up under Northern Territory legislation, has been established to develop the town. 
Under the existing requirements of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act the procedures relating to the coming into force of a plan of management will take some time to complete. The amendment envisages a mechanism which would permit an early start to be made to preliminary construction work prior to the plan of management formally coming into effect. The proposed amendments will ensure that Park values are properly protected while such preliminary construction work proceeds. It is the intention that the major construction work in the town will take place within the framework of the plan of management. Construction in the Northern Territory is largely limited to the dry season- that is April to the end of Novemberand during this dry season the Jabiru Town Development Authority proposes a program to build the construction camp and access roads, and to provide temporary water-supply, sewerage, power and telecommunication services for the camp.  Major construction  work on the township is not scheduled by the Jabiru Town Development Authority in this dry season. 
The amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act contained in this Bill permit the Director, before the plan of management is in effect, to approve, by instrument in writing, the performance within the park of such work as he considers necessary or desirable for the establishment of a township at Jabiru, upon such conditions as he considers desirable. Before granting a licence, the Director will be required to consult closely with the Jabiru Town Development Authority and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. The Jabiru Town Development Authority will be the focus for co-ordination of the views of the relevant Northern Territory authorities. 
In issuing such a licence, the Director shall specify environmental conditions to be a part of that licence to ensure that the Park values are preserved. The licence will be a 'prescribed instrument' within the meaning of the Environment Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Act 1978, which enables the Northern Territory Supreme Court at the suit of the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, the Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission or the Northern Land Council to make orders for the enforcement of any requirement under a prescribed instrument so far as the requirement relates to any matter affecting the environment of the Alligator Rivers Region. The amendment will also enable the Director to issue a lease or licence for the land on which the Jabiru township is to be developed in advance of the plan of management. I would like to stress that, in proposing these amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act, the Government is determined to protect the integrity of the Park. The Kakadu National Park is one of the world's great national parks and will continue to be so. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Although the Environment Protection ( Impact of Proposals) Act was assented to on 17 December 1974, the Administrative Procedures under the Act were not notified in the Gazette until 24 June 197S. Proposed actions notified to the Department in each year since then have been 324 to 30 June 1976,331 to 30 June 1977, 219 to 30 June 1978 and 59 to 24 April 1979. 
The following table sets out the details required: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Comprehensive data is not available on the number of persons living permanently in caravans in Australia. 
However the 1976 Census collected information on the number of people residing in caravans on the night of the Census and classified them into two groups: 
persons occupying private ' mobile dwellings. These are defined as mobile dwellings (including caravans) standing on their own block of land and not occupied by members of the same household resident in an adjacent dwelling. 
persons occupying a caravan in a caravan park, on either a permanent or temporary basis. 
Information on the number of persons occupying a caravan in a caravan park is not yet available. 
The number of persons occupying private mobile dwellings in each State and Territory as at 30 June 1976 is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since its inception in 1964, $237m has been allocated under the Home Savings Grant Scheme. 
, (3), and (4) Statistics are not maintained by electoral division. 
(a) and (b) Statistics on the average age of applicants are compiled after the end of the financial year in which the grant is approved. Of the couples whose grants were approved during 1977-78, the men were most commonly in the 26-30 years age group, and the women in the 21-25 years age group. 
(a) Funds to be allocated to the scheme are determined in the Budget context. It is estimated that the value limit on qualifying homes will effect a saving of some $5m in 1979-80. The greater part of expenditure on grants in 1979-80 will be for applications approved in 1978-79 and not affected by the value limit. 
The value limit on qualifying homes announced on 24 May 1979 will not affect those who at that date were on the waiting list for payment of a grant, nor those who contracted on or before that date to buy or build their home. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) My Department does not keep statistics on the prices of homes by suburban location or of the duration and cost of public transport journeys. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment, has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) State Governments, through the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers (CONCOM) have been involved in the development and assessment of a National Wetlands Survey for over five years. In 1974-75 Commonwealth funds were provided to Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales to support pilot projects. CONCOM at its meetings in August 1978 and April 1979 strongly endorsed the need for a national wetlands survey conducted in co-operation between the States, Territories and the Commonwealth and urged the Commonwealth Government to provide funds to initiate the survey. 
The Commonwealth Government is sympathetic to the desirability of a national wetlands survey and is currently seeking advice as to the likely availability of funds for initiating the survey. 
CSIRO did not propose the national wetlands survey but with funding provided by the former Department of Environment was engaged in 1975 to undertake a feasibility study to determine how a National Wetlands Survey could best be conducted. CSIRO provided a feasibility study report to CONCOM in 1976. The proposals were not implemented because of cost, lack of agreement on a national approach and differences of opinion on the extent to which a national survey should concentrate on the aquatic fauna or the total wetlands ecosystem. CSIRO Land Use Research Division completed a further feasibility study in 1 978, which Standing Committee of CONCOM endorsed. 
The concept of a National Wetlands Survey was conceived in 1973 by the Australian Fauna Authorities Conference (precursor to CONCOM). The first stage of the National Wetlands Survey was initiated in 1 974-75 through the former Department of Environment, when $ 100,000 was allocated for this purpose. 
At its third meeting in August 1975 CONCOM, reviewed the progress of the National Wetlands Survey. In November 1976, at its fifth meeting, CONCOM accepted the view of Standing Committee that the Ecological and Wetlands Survey proposals submitted by the CSIRO in February 1 976 did not meet the immediate needs of nature conservation agencies but should be considered as the framework for a broader Australian land inventory. At its seventh meeting in August 1978, CONCOM noted the final reports by CSIRO on the feasibility study for a national wetlands survey, and accepted the view of Standing Committee that such a survey was an important conservation objective. At its eighth meeting in April 1979, CONCOM again strongly endorsed the need for a national wetlands survey conducted in co-operation between the States, Territories and the Commonwealth and urged the Commonwealth Government to provide funds to initiate the survey. 
The Commonwealth Government, in recognition of its specific responsibilities is taking action for conservation of wetlands in a number of fields: 
The extensive coastal wetlands incorporated in Kakadu National Park will be protected in accordance with a plan of management for the park. 
The management and conservation of that part of Towra Point in NSW acquired by the Commonwealth Government and containing wetlands of international importance will be subject to negotiations with NSW authorities. 
The Australian Heritage Commission which lies within the portfolio of the Minister for Home Affairs has advised that it has proposed for inclusion on the Register of the National Estate a number of significant wetland areas in all States and that the Government has provided funds through the National Estate Grants Program to identify wetlands of scientific and conservation significance. 
CSIRO, through its Division of Land Use Research, is engaged in preliminary studies for the production of an Australia-wide map on the distribution of wetlands and a study on the hydrological aspects of wetlands. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation has announced an inquiry into Coastal Zone Management in Australia. 
Hire of DC9 Simulator  (Question No.  3868) 
Since coming to office this Government has certainly provided substantial assistance to those in need, including those seeking welfare housing. The honourable member for Reid, conveniently for this side of the House, has raised the question of rental housing. It was announced by the Prime Minister at the recent Premiers Conference that we will be substantially increasing the funds available for rental housing through grants in the current financial year. The sum of $ 100m will be provided to the States for rental accommodation. The important point is that this money is to be provided by way of grants and not by way of advances, as in the past. Therefore, this is money that the States will not have to repay. It will assist those in need. It will assist pensioners in particular. It has already been announced that $30m will be provided for pensioners. Additional funds will be provided for Aboriginals. This money will certainly assist those in need of rental accommodation. The facts do not support the contentions of the honourable member for Reid. We continue to provide substantial assistance for those in need of welfare housing. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement made by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on Australia's Antarctic program. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 34S4 in the House of Representatives on 1 May 1979  (Hansard,  1 May 1979, page 1714). 
Uranium: Effects on Health (Question No. 3501) 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Science and the Environment and other Commonwealth Departments have been giving consideration to the feasibility of collaboration between 
Australia and the United States of America in the operation from Australia of a US tropical cyclone research program known as Project Stormfury. This is a long-term research project conducted by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) with the aim of developing techniques for amelioration of tropical cyclones using cloud seeding. 
I assure the Honourable Member that the proposal is being given full consideration. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Both the Northern Territory and Commonwealth Governments have been anxious that Kakadu National Park be declared as soon as possible. 
The Kakadu National Park was declared on 5 April 1979. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 6 May 1979 the Minister for Science and the Environment announced that the Minister for Primary Industry had approved the appointment of Professor J. D. Ovington as Australian Commissioner to the International Whaling Commission. Professor Ovington is Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service and his appointment is consistent with the impending transfer of responsibility for matters relating to whales and whaling from the Minister for Primary Industry to the Minister for Science and the Environment. 
Following examination of the Draft Agenda for the 3 1st Annual Meeting circulated by the International Whaling Commission, Australia submitted the following two agenda items in accordance with the Government's new policy on whales and whaling: 
a ) world wide ban on whaling; 
consideration of the implications for whales of management regimes for other marine resources. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Private industry is negotiating for the ship m/t  Vulcanus  to visit Australia and present indications are that it could not be here before June 1980. The intention is that it will collect accumulated waste chlorinated hydrocarbon liquids for incineration at sea. 
Ocean Combustion Service BV- Rotterdam. 
The vessel was used to incinerate 10,400 tonnes of Herbicide Orange in the Pacific Ocean, July to August 1977. The incineration was performed under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Special Permit No. 770DH001S. 
The ship has operated as an incineration vessel since 1972 and has successfully disposed of 250,000 tonnes of liquid wastes mainly in Europe. 
It would not be possible to arrange a demonstration of high temperature incineration in Australian waters prior to the actual charter because of the shipping company's commitments in Europe. However its performance, particularly in the United States, has been well documented by the Environmental Protection Agency. It must be realised that  Vulcanus  is not an all purpose disposal vessel being restricted to the incineration of liquid materials. The types of liquids accepted for incineration on the m/t  Vulcanus  is governed by their range of calorific values and this range is as specified by the owners of the vessel. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. Grants in the current year have varied by a range of percentages. Nine had slight increases, thirteen were reduced and two were unchanged. 
No. 
It is the Government's view that voluntary bodies should become less reliant on Government funding and that they should develop a broad base of support from the community. It is for this reason that the matching scheme of contributions was introduced several years ago and is, of course, quite appropriate at a time when the Government is exercising restraint on public expenditure. 
Nationality and Employment in the Public Service  (Question No. 3906) 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Bathurst burr was one of the earliest candidates in Australia for biological control when CSIRO 's forerunner, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, began biological control studies in the late 1920s. Attempts to establish an adequate degree of biological control over Bathurst burr at that time failed. Later attempts in the mid- 1 960s also were unsuccessful. 
CSIRO gives high priority to the biological control of weeds and, in selecting candidate weeds, takes into account a number of factors, one of which is the chance of success. While recognising that Bathurst burr is a serious problem weed, CSIRO has devoted the resources made available for biological control to a number of other weeds which provide greater prospects for biological control than Bathurst burr. 
Another important consideration is that Bathurst burr is closely related to some plants of economic value, such as sunflower. This makes the chances of finding suitable control organisms so much harder because organisms will not be introduced into this country unless they satisfy stringent requirements for specificity to the target weed. 
CSIRO is closely in touch with developments in biological control of weeds in other countries, but is unaware of any natural enemy of Bathurst burr discovered overseas likely to be both effective in adequately controlling the weed in Australia and safe to release. CSIRO would be interested to have details of the claims for successful biological control referred to in the question. 
In the light of (2), it is difficult to be specific about the resources that would be needed to implement the control measures mentioned. If it were shown that a biological control organism was available overseas, no extensive exploration program would be required. It might be necessary, however, for feeding tests to be conducted overseas to provide information to satisfy Australian quarantine authorities concerning the specificity of the organism. Resources would be needed for this and for building up populations of the organism in Australia and releasing them in the field. The extent of the resources required would be influenced by the type of organism. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Pancontinental Mining Ltd has advised the Government that, following consideration of environmental matters raised in comments received on the Jabiluka Uranium Project Draft Environmental Impact Statement and further technical investigations, the Company is developing, as a preferred alternative, a proposal to mine the deposit by underground methods. In the draft impact statement, the Company had indicated a preference for an open cut operation and briefly examined the underground alternative. 
Pancontinental Mining Ltd are preparing a final environmental impact statement which will examine in detail the environmental consequences of the underground proposal and the open cut alternative. This final impact statement when submitted by the Company will be examined in accordance with the requirements of the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures, before any Government decision is made in relation to the proposal. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) No. However there is evidence that on some coral reefs of the Great Barrier Reef about SO per cent of giant clams have been found dead, and this may have been due to fishing. 
2 ) ( a ) Little is known, but some work is being carried out relating to repopulation of reefs by living adult clams, (b) The role of the giant clam in the reef ecosystem is not fully understood. 
It is not known if the zooxanthellae found in the giant clams' mantles contribute to the nutrient flux in the water, but it is unlikely. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a)Yes. 
The Western Australian Government in April 1978 passed Agreement Acts with respect to the Wagerup and Worsley projects. This legislation required the companies to submit an Environmental Review and Management Program in relation to the bauxite mining and alumina refinery proposals as a means of satisfying Western Australian environmental requirements before State approval was given for work to proceed on these projects. 
Both the Wagerup and Worsley bauxite/alumina projects come under the provisions of the Commonwealth Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
A final impact statement on the Wagerup project was submitted to the Government. The then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development considered all available information and decided that a public inquiry was not necessary. Subsequently, in accordance with the Environmental Protection Administrative Procedures, the Minister advised the Minister for Trade and Resources and the Treasurer, as Action Ministers, of his recommendations with respect to this proposal. 
The preparation and submission of an environmental impact statement has been directed on the Worsley proposal. Following receipt of the final impact statement the Minister for Science and the Environment will assess the need for any additional information and the manner in which such information should be sought. 
Governor-General's Use of VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 4128) 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
The report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on Oil Spills was tabled in this House on 26 October 1978 and a copy was received by my Department on 6 November 1978. 
The ministerial statement on the report was made to the House on 7 June 1979. 
Patients in Private Hospitals  (Question No. 4174) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is undertaking alterations, for the Joint House Department, in the office of the Government Whip in the House of Representatives. The cost is estimated at $5,000. 
The alterations comprise the provision of a kitchenette in the office. Items to be provided are cupboards, a basin and a refrigerator. 
The alterations are similar to those made to the office of the Opposition Whip towards the end of 1 978. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The five research accounts referred to in this question all relate to the CSIRO Minerals Research Laboratories (MRL). MRL is comprised of the following CSIRO Divisions: Mineral Physics, Mineralogy, Mineral Chemistry, Mineral Engineering. Process Technology, and the Fuel Geoscience Unit. The research programs being undertaken extend across the Divisions which comprise MRL, aspects of research related to these programs being undertaken in different Divisions. 
The Australian Mineral Industries Research Association (AMIRA), various individual mining industry companies, and other organisations request specific research projects to be undertaken by MRL, either on a collaborative (i.e. with the donor contributing towards the research input) or sponsored basis. Contributions to cover the costs of tne collaborative or sponsored research are credited to the relevant research account for use by the appropriate Divisions involved in that program of research. 
The following is a representative sample of the types of contributors from the current list of approximately fifty contributors: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (3)  Mr G.  Kelleher, a government official with wide experience in environmental matters, was appointed to act as full-time  Chairman  on 23 July 1979 in compliance with the Act.  Mr Kelleher  will continue to act full-time as  chairman  until the position, is filled permanently. 
There was a vacancy between 20 March 1979 and 2 May 1979. 
In the recent past  Mr Kelleher  has acted as the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, First Assistant Secretary of the Environment Division in the Department of Science and the Environment and Supervising Scientist in the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory. 
Before that, he was Deputy Chairman, representing the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, of a small, expert, multi-disciplinary task force which provided advice to the Government on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Safeguards issues. This work followed two years as one of the three Commissioners on the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
Before being appointed as a Commissioner, he was for two years Assistant Secretary, then Acting First Assistant Secretary in the Water and Soil Resources Division of the then Department of Environment and Conservation. This Division was concerned with the development and management of Commonwealth Government policies and programs on water and soil resources. 
This period followed 8 months in 1972 as a Churchill Fellow in the United States and Canada studying environmental management and protection in the United States and Canada. 

 Mr Kelleher was trained as a Civil Engineer at Sydney University and was employed in both private enterprise and the Commonwealth Government in the design and construction of major civil engineering projects in Canada and 
Australia. As Manager of the Googong Project he led the team which prepared the first comprehensive environmental impact statement produced for the Commonwealth Government. 
The Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland announced the establishment of a Ministerial Council on 14 June 1979 comprising Commonwealth and State Ministers representing marine park, conservation, science and tourism interests. The first section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park- the Capricornia section- will be processed by the Ministerial Council as an immediate task to enable early proclamation to take place. 
The Capricornia Section- including the Capricorn and Bunker groups of reefs at the southern end of the Great Barrier Reef will be proclaimed as the first stage. 
7 ) and ( 8 ) The Prime Minister and the Premier agreed on 14 June 1979 that the Capricornia Section should be processed by the Ministerial Council for proclamation as a Marine Park under the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answers to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Agricultural chemicals, therapeutic goods, food additives and poisons have been assessed and regulated for a number of years by Commonwealth and State Health and Agricultural authorities in regard to their efficacy and potential adverse effects. These activities will be covered by the Minister for Health in answer to Question No. 3507. 
The honourable member will be aware from my answer to questions 3517 and 3518 that the Australian Environment Council has established a National Advisory Committee on Chemicals. This Committee is currently developing procedures for assessment of synthetic chemicals used in industry and commerce for potential environmental hazards. The Commonwealth is making an active and positive contribution to this effort. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. I am unable to provide the information because national registers of such chemicals are not presently maintained in the three countries concerned. However, as part of the United Nations Environment Program, an International Register of Potentially Toxic Chemicals (IRPTC) is being established which is intended to include this information. Australia actively supports development of the IRPTC. 
Australia has encouraged and assisted international efforts to achieve harmonisation of controls on environmentally hazardous chemicals, particularly through the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In co-operation with State Governments, the Commonwealth is actively developing policies and programs for the management of hazardous chemicals. The Australian Environment Council has established the National Advisory Committee on Chemicals to develop a national approach to assessment and control of environmentally hazardous chemicals. 
and (2) According to information published by the Australian Chemical Industry Council, approximately 700 chemicals are manufactured in Australia. No information is available on the total number of synthetic chemicals in use in Australia. It is reported that over 40,000 chemicals are in commercial use at present in the USA and up to 1,000 new chemicals are brought into commercial use each year. 
I understand that about one quarter of the chemicals sold in Australia are imported. 
and (5) Agricultural chemicals and veterinary drugs are screened by the Australian Agricultural Council and the National Health and Medical Research Council. Food additives and poisons are assessed by the National Health and Medical Research Council. Therapeutic goods subject to Commonwealth control are evaluated by the Australian 
Drug Evaluation Committee and the Department of Health. These activities have been elaborated by the Minister for Health in replying to question No. 3507 asked by the honourable member. 
Through its National Advisory Committee on Chemicals, the Australian Environment Council is developing procedures for assessment of new chemicals for potential environmental effects. The Commonwealth has responsibility for imports of new chemicals and a consultant has recently been engaged to assist with formulation of procedures. 
and (7) This information is not collected on a national basis. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) No. (b) No 
The Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland announced on 1 4 June 1 979 that as sections of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park are proclaimed under the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act, the day-to-day management should be undertaken by officers of the appropriate Queensland Service, who in discharging these responsibilities will be subject to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. 
Yes.  Mr G.  Kelleher, a government official with wide experience in environmental matters, was appointed to act as full-time  Chairman  on 23 July 1979.  Mr Kelleher  will continue to act as chariman until the position is filled permanently. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There are two townships in the Northern Territory associated with national parks proclaimed under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. These are at the Uluru (Ayers Rock- Mt Olga) National Park and the Kakadu National Park. The Yulara Village at Uluru is outside the Park boundary and the plan was developed by a joint Commonwealth/Northern Territory planning team. The plan for the Jabiru township in the Kakadu National Park was developed by consultants for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. The Jabiru Town Development Authority has been established by the Northern Territory Government to construct the town substantially to this town plan. 
The Government had regard for all views, including those of the Northern Territory, during the framing of the Bills and the passing  of  the Acts relating to mining development, the establishment of townships, the protection of the environment and the welfare of the Aboriginal people in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
No. The National Parks and Wildlife Conversation Act at sub-section 8C(2) enables a township to be established and developed by the Jabiru Township Development Authority. 
Yes. 
I am not aware of the relationship the Northern Territory Government has with Macintosh, Parkes and Associates, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. 
Macintosh, Parkes and Associates has issued a statement purporting to represent the views of the Northern Territory Government. I do not accept such statements as a communication between Governments. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  in speaking about unemployment, conveniently forgot to mention that the actions of the Labor Government in 1974 and early in 1975 put over 190,000 people out of work. That is not a record of which that Government could be proud. We are now seeing the picture changing within the housing and construction industry of this country. In recent times many people have been re-employed in that industry. 
This Government welcomes the opportunity seriously and sensibly to describe its approach to the satisfying of the housing needs of our low and middle income earners and to put its substantial achievements on record. In that approach we have been economically realistic but at the same time very sensitive to the welfare needs of the Australian community. Certainly the Government sees the private housing sector as being very important. Perhaps that is where we differ from the Labor Opposition. After all, more than nine out of 10 Australians satisfy their housing needs in the private sector. At the same time we do, as we must, recognise the need for public housing to assist those in need. But we certainly do not have as our primary aim in government housing policy an expansion of the public housing sector. That would appear to have been the aim of the Labor Government. I am pleased to say openly and frankly that the Government's approach is certainly very different from that of the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. 
I think it is worth making one or two comments about the recent Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party. The debates which took place and the decisions which were arrived at during that conference disclosed a distinct preference for public rental accommodation under the control of State housing authorities. I agree that there is a need for a reasonable rental stock, but I do not believe that it should be the preferred and essential aim of government policy. However the honourable member for Reid, as the Opposition's housing spokesman, and the Labor Party generally do not share the aspirations of the vast majority of Australians who want to own their own homes. The Labor Party does not want to increase the level of home ownership. It would prefer to see it reduced and the stocks of rental accommodation increased. It would prefer to see a greater dependence on government handouts. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for consideration and report: Redevelopment of Brisbane International Airport- Initial works of phase I. 
The proposal is for the construction of the initial works associated with the proposed redevelopment of Brisbane Airport to the north-east of the existing airport, and comprises: 
Reclamation of the site with sand filling dredged from Moreton Bay to accommodate the proposed new runway, taxiways, apron, building areas and roadways; the construction of a floodway channel to divert the floodwaters presently discharging across the site; construction of a 3,300 metre runway and associated taxiway system; and other associated engineering preparatory works. 
The estimated cost of the proposal at July 1979 prices is $98m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No Commonwealth Environmental impact statement has been directed in relation to the Ben Lomond uranium deposit because the Minister for Trade and Resources has not been asked to take any action in relation to this uranium deposit and has not designated a proponent within the terms of the Administrative Procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
I am unable to comment on Queensland Government requirements for an environmental impact statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Science and the Environment, in providing this answer to the honourable member's question, has consulted with the Minister for Transport who is responsible for many of the matters raised. 
) No. 
An article in the Australian Marine Science Bulletin of January 1978 lists 20 apparently exotic species collected in Australian waters. The source of any exotic marine organism, however, is open to question. Natural migration, planned or malicious introduction as well as shipping activities including ballast water discharge have all been suggested as possible sources of new species in Australian waters. The exact number of species introduced by any one of these means is impossible to establish. 
The discharge of ballast water in Sydney Harbour falls under the jurisdiction of the Maritime Services Board of NSW. Regulation 3 of the Navigable Waters (AntiPollution) Regulations of that State, as amended in 1972, specifically prohibits the discharge of any pollutant, including heavy metals and toxic substances, from vessels in Sydney Harbour. 
I am further advised that the situation referred to in the honourable member's question, that is the contamination of ballast water by heavy metals or toxic chemicals, is not one likely to occur in the operation of modern bulk carriers where ballast water is held independently of the cargo areas. 
Japan, Germany, Canada, The United States of America, the United Kingdom and eleven other States (including Australia) are signatories to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1 973. 
When it enters into force in June 1981, this Convention will, amongst other things, provide for the control of the discharge of a wide range of noxious materials into the sea from deballasting operations of national and foreign vessels. 
Australia and the countries to which the honourable member refers are taking steps to enable them to ratify this important Convention as soon as possible. 
There are no routine analyses carried out on ballast waters of ships arriving in Australian waters from foreign ports. 
I am informed that since the commencement of the Spencer Gulf prawn fishery in 1968 there has been a slight overall decrease in the catch per trawl-hour. 
The question of the introduction of exotic marine life into Australian waters via ballast water discharge is one of the matters being examined by the NSW State Fisheries in a study commissioned by the Commonwealth Government as part of an ongoing investigation of the environmental consequences of ballast water discharge by foreign vessels in Australian waters. 
As I have already mentioned, State regulations are in force and the Commonwealth Government in co-operation with the States is taking steps to enable Australia to implement the provisions of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) I am aware of the article published in the  Sun  of 1 6 May 1979 reporting the view of the European Economic Commission that there should be a reduction in the use of aerosol sprays containing fluorocarbons. 
My Department has been following closely developments overseas in scientific studies of possible effects of chlorofluorocarbons on ozone in the atmosphere. Australia was represented at the meeting of the United Nations Environment Program Co-ordinating Committee on the Ozone Layer (held on Bonn in November 1978) and the International Conference on Chlorofluoromethanes (held in Munich in December 1978). At both these meetings the impact of the release of fluorocarbon gases from aerosol sprays was considered. 
Approximately 30 per cent of aerosols sold in Australia use fluorocarbons as the sole propellant while a further 30 per cent use mixtures of chlorofluorocarbons and other propellants. Over recent years economic factors have provided considerable incentive for the substitution of fluorocarbon propellants by cheaper alternatives. It has been estimated that there has been a 32 percent decline in the use of chlorofluorocarbons in aerosols between 1974 and 1978. 
A joint working group of experts from the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Environment Council 's National Advisory Committee on Chemicals, and other bodies, will shortly commence an examination of the environmental, health and economic effects of fluorocarbons and their substitutes. 
Economically viable alternatives to use of fluorocarbons in aerosol sprays exist for many products. However, the environmental, health and safety aspects of alternatives also need to be considered. Hydrocarbon propellants, such as butane, frequently provide an economic alternative. Compressed gases such as carbon dioxide or nitrous oxide can be used as a propellant in some products. In addition there is scope for varied packaging procedures, such as plunger-operated sprays or roll-on type cosmetics, which do not require the use of chemical propellants. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer: 
1 ) The Antarctic Division is engaged in a program of ecological studies in the Vestfold Hills near Davis Station. This program has been in progress since 1 972. It has concentrated on the ecology of several saline and freshwater lakes, which occur in greater abundance and diversity in the Vestfold Hills than anywhere else in Antarctica. Currently, studies are being extended to the terrestrial biota, with emphasis on lichens, mosses, algae and soil invertebrates. The University of Melbourne and Macquarie University are co-operating in this long term program. Minor projects are also undertaken on related aspects of the neighbouring inshore marine ecosystem. Long term marine studies are confined to measurements of the phytoplankton population of the Southern Ocean, made during resupply voyages. 
The Government has, through various channels, funded a number of research projects into the Great Barrier Reef ecosystems and associated topics. Through the Australian Research Grant Scheme and the Queen's Fellowship scheme, both of which are under my Ministerial responsibility, the Government has funded a number of research projects in this important area. For example, research projects bearing the following titles have been funded: 'Comparative Studies on Coral Reef Ecosystems: Coral Taxonomy, Ecology and Analysis of Reef Community Structures' and 'The Species Composition and Ecological Significance of near-reef Zooplankton on the Capricorn Reef, Queensland'. 
The Government has decided that, in addition to existing funding arrangements for marine scientific research, $400,000 will be provided in 1979-80 and the two succeeding financial years for grants in this field to be allocated by the Minister for Science and the Environment on the advice of the Marine Research Allocations Panel (MARAP) $300,000 of this amount will be devoted specifically to research on the Great Barrier Reef environment which had been suggested by the  Chairman  of the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum. 
The Government has in March 1979 approved a further eight positions for the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) enabling the R/V  Lady Basten  to be fully crewed, and bringing the number of permanent staff of the Institute to 73. 
In addition to this, however, the Government has agreed to provide additional scientific staff positions with suitable support funding for 1979-80 and the two succeeding years with the specific objective of accelerating research in the Great Barrier Reef. The Government will review the staff situation of the AIMS from time to time. 
Sixty-five plus the eight recently approved positions which will be filled as soon as possible. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the National Environmental Economics Conference held in 1978 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster).  Copies of the report are available from the Parliamentary Library. 
For the information of honourable members I present two agreements, one between the Commonwealth of Australia and New South Wales and the other between the Commonwealth of Australia and Western Australia, in relation to the provision of financial assistance for projects related to the environment for 1978-79, made under the provisions of the Environment (Financial Assistance) Act 1977. 
I am staggered that the Opposition should seek to attack this Government on its record on housing costs. No government has taken a more rigourous and careful approach to home ownership and housing costs than this Government. The Opposition and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  are leading with their chins whenever they raise in this House the question of inflation; their record on the inflation front was so deplorable. I believe that they underrate the intelligence of the ordinary Australian people, the Australian public, when they try to pretend that they have all the answers, that they can solve all the problems of inflation, when obviously from their own record they cannot. The people are not fools. The people do remember. They can remember back to four and five years ago when the Labor Party obviously failed totally in its attempts to control inflation in this country. Rather than inhibit price increases, it positively encouraged the inflationary spiral and the price explosion which ripped the Australian economy apart and destroyed with it the hopes and the aspirations of countless numbers of young Australians who were so eager at that time to own their own homes. 
I want to mention a few aspects of the record of the Labor Party when it was in office because it did great harm to the interests of housing in Australia and the interest of the housing industry in particular. That period from 1972 to 1975 was one of great instability and great uncertainty for the housing industry. The policies adopted by the Government in those days, those dark days, caused peaks and troughs which must be avoided if we are to assist housing in Australia. There were periods of over-building and they strained the resources of the housing industry. When this sort of over-building occurs, obviously and inevitably there has to be a crash. The crash came. I remind the House that that period from 1972 to 1975 was a period of great crisis for home owners in Australia and for the housing industry. Inflation ran wild. Inflation of land costs and house costs exploded. It was much higher in those days than the general consumer price index figures. 
One figure that I would like to quote is that relating to the house building material cost increase for the 12 months to the end of January 1975. The increase was 22.9 per cent for that one year. Compare that figure with the figure for the period to the end of July of this year when it was down to 9.6 per cent. In this latest financial year it was half what it was in one of those periods during the Labor reign. I remind honourable members that interest rates soared under Labor. They rose by three per cent and more between 1972 and 1974. What a disaster that was for so many young people who were trying to buy their own homes. Month after month they received notices from the lending institutions from which they had obtained their loans to the effect that there had been a further increase in interest rates. That meant further increases in the instalments that these people had to pay. It also meant, of course, that many of them could not continue to pay the instalments on their homes and remain in them. I ask honourable members to look at that record and compare it with the record of the present Government. 
During the period of the present Government we have had a very static situation in interest rates. Generally they have remained stable since the beginning of 1 976. In fact, in some areas they have moderated. That is a very significant achievement indeed for this Government. I ask honourable members to look at one of the programs that this Government or one of its predecessors initiated some years ago, the Home Savings Grant scheme. What happened to that during the period of the Labor Government? It was abolished. That was a very great disappointment to so many young families who were seeking the kind of assistance provided by that scheme to enable them to put a deposit on a house, to get into a house of their own. How hypocritical it is for honourable members opposite now to criticise certain aspects of the scheme that the Government now is administering to help those people. At present this Government is providing a maximum grant of $2,000. It is a substantial help to young people who want to buy a house of their own. We intend to continue to maintain that scheme. We see it as an important scheme. It is an important means of assisting young people who want to buy their own homes. I am not sure, but I do not believe that there was any decision made at the recent Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party to the effect that it would bring back the Home Savings Grant scheme. Perhaps I can be corrected by honourable members opposite if I am wrong. 
I now ask honourable members to consider public housing. What a mess that was during Labor's period of office. Massive amounts of money were spent but so much was wasted. We had examples of very, very poor administration. The States had so much money to spend that they did not know what to do with it. It was coming out of their ears. Some of the States spent a massive amount of money buying up huge tracts of land, much more than was needed to satisfy the immediate needs of the people and the families who were seeking public housing. In one particular case, the Tasmanian housing authority bought land sufficient for 50 years supply at the current rate of commencements. That indicated that too much money was available and it was being wasted. They were the sorts of things that were happening during the period of office of the Labor Government. 
In the last Budget brought down by the Labor Government it realised its previous stupidity and decided to cut back expenditure significantly. That is something that is sometimes forgotten by those sitting opposite when commenting on public housing. Generally, the policies of the Labor Government were totally haphazard and did nothing to assist young home buyers in Australia and nothing to assist the industry to produce houses for young families or any family who wanted to get into a house. On the other hand the present Government has adopted what I believe to be very sensible policies which are working very well. The industry can now plan ahead. It knows where it is going and families wanting to buy a house know where they are going. Interest rates are stable and that is a very important component of the cost of housing. That is, as I said before, a very significant achievement. Commencements basically are sufficient to meet the present demand for housing in Australia and I believe, in time, that there will be a gradual improvement in the number of commencements. 
On Saturday, in South Australia, we saw a Labor Government and its housing policies totally rejected by the people of that State. I am not surprised at the election result. It was a resounding victory by the Liberal Party and, in particular, the Liberal Party in South Australia. The Labor Government in that State obviously failed in its housing policies. It failed to give encouragement to young people. If failed to provide incentives for people to go out and seek finance in the private area so that they could purchase a house privately. There was far too much concern and concentration on public housing in South Australia.  Dr Tonkin  and his Liberal Government, particularly his housing Minister, appointed today, are determined to reinvigorate the housing sector in South Australia and to give due attention and assistance to people who want to buy their own homes. I find the housing policies for South Australia to be very impressive indeed and I think that the people there will see a very significant improvement in the assistance provided by the Government to enable them to go out and purchase a home of their own. Let us not forget that the great aspiration of most Australian people is to have the satisfaction and the security of their own home. 
The South Australian Government will ensure an improvement in the availability of housing finance, particularly in the private sector. It will provide incentives for people purchasing a home and offer rebates of stamp duty on the purchase of a first home, which is a very significant step forward. It will abolish land tax on the principle place of residence and introduce legislation in support of the home owners protection schemes developed by the building industry. All of these are very important initiatives indeed. Whereas we have seen a very, very flat situation for housing in South Australia, I believe that now we will see a great deal of improvement in that State. The people will see that they will achieve a great deal as a result of the support which they have given to the Liberal Party in that State. 
A great deal has been done for housing by this Government. We are now seeing the rate of commencements rise. These rose by 1 1 per cent in the second half of 1978-79. We expect commencements in 1979-80 to be between 117,000 and 122,000, according to the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry. There again we have seen a gradual improvement. Approvals for housing construction rose by three per cent during 1978-79. Private dwelling approvals were up six per cent in 1978-79. Total approvals were five per cent higher in the June quarter of 1979 than in the March quarter of 1979 and 15 per cent higher for June quarter 1979 than for June quarter 1978. This again is further evidence of a gradual improvement in the number of approvals for houses in Australia. Significant achievements have been made on the finance front. There has been a great improvement in the total flow of housing finance from the major lending institutions throughout Australia. Approvals in the June quarter were 1 3.2 per cent higher than approvals for the corresponding period in 1978. 
Lending by banks and permanent building societies in 1978-79 was 21 per cent higher than that for the previous financial year. As I have said, those improvements are very substantial indeed. The honourable member for Reid mentioned the cost of building materials. It is true that the cost of house building material increased by 1.4 per cent in the month of August this year and that the cost of other building material increased by 1.2 per cent. The Government is concerned, as part of its genuine and real concern for the people wanting to buy their own homes, about the recent increases in the prices of materials for housing and nonresidential buildings. It recognises that the increases are due at least partially to an adjustment from the low levels which have existed in recent months and that further marginal increases can be expected in the coming months. But increases of even 10 per cent and 1 1 per cent must be viewed in the context of the record of the Labor Government because they are less than half - 
The honourable member for Reid smiles and chuckles to himself, but they are less than half of the rate of inflation that his Government achieved through its policies in 1974 and 1975. 
-The record is there. If the honourable member checks on the figures for the Australian Bureau of Statistics he will see that it is not rubbish, that it is perfectly correct. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which supports the comments I have just made on house prices. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909184_27_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909184_27_6.jpg"></graphic>

-By way of the recent Budget the Government has redoubled its efforts to contain the inflationary pressures which are again on the increase in most Western countries. It is not easy to do that. I am sure the honourable member for Reid would agree with that. But our record speaks for itself. It is a very fine record indeed and one of which this Government is particularly proud. 
One subject I will briefly mention- I do not have very much time left- is the sub-contract system. If, as members of this Parliament, we are concerned about housing costs we should be very much concerned about the attack that is now taking place on the sub-contract system in Australia among elements of the union movement. Honourable members would recognise that this system has been an important factor in maintaining and retaining a reasonable level of house prices within Australia. It is a system which has stood the test of time and kept house prices down. It is a system which is based on individual effort, initiative and personal endeavour. If we compare Australia's productivity in the housing industry with that of other countries, especially European, we will see that Australia's productivity has been much higher. 
I believe that that is because we use the subcontract system. I see great dangers for the industry and home buyers if we lose the sub-contract system. House prices would inevitably increase. Fewer houses would be built. Employment within the industry would be affected. It would drop and become more unstable. The attack on the sub-contract system which is under way at present in a number of States, especially New South Wales, is something that I think should be viewed with great concern and alarm. The Government believes in the sub-contract system and will do all it can to support its continuation. The debate on this matter has shown that the Australian Labor Party has failed to learn the lessons of its own mistakes. Nothing has changed. It wants to spend more and more money to solve all of the problems that exist. It has failed to recognise that the single most important contribution that the Commonwealth can make to lowering housing costs is to provide a stable economic climate and the incentive to invest. That is what we are doing. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Administrative Services answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4299  (Hansard,11  September1 979, page 972 ). 
I am pleased that the honourable member for Barton has raised this subject. 
Earlier this week the Australian Bureau of Statistics released its figures on increases in home building material prices in Australia. The figures show that in the month of August an increase of 1.4 per cent occurred. This compares with an increase in the month of July of 1.3 per cent. So, there was a slight increase of 0. 1 per cent over the previous month's figure. It is true that the figures for the last couple of months were higher than the figures for a number of previous months. The increase has been influenced by higher prices for clay bricks, for timber-both hardwood and softwood- and for steel and cement products. The honourable member asks why the increases have occurred. It is always difficult to pinpoint reasons for increases of these kinds in these sorts of indices. The figures for several months were extremely low and eventually it was obvious that some upward readjustment would occur. That has been a factor in the latest increases. Also, we have seen increases in petroleum and chemical prices which obviously feed through eventually to building material costs. 
Despite the moderate increases which have taken place in the last two months, the Government certainly has a very good record in containing costs in the building sector. The house building materials index has declined in each of the years that this Government has been in office. I think that that is a very significant achievement indeed. As all honourable members on both sides of the House will know, by comparison, costs of all kinds soared during the period of the Labor Administration, and that included building costs. I give an example: In the year ending July 1979 this Government achieved a figure of 9.6 per cent and this compares with a Labor figure of 22.9 per cent in the 12-month period to the end of January 1975. For the latest 12-month period, including August, the figure is 10.5 per cent. This Government is now achieving inflation figures about half, or less than half, of what they were during the period for which the Labor Government was in office. For non-residential building material costs, the figure for August was 1.2 per cent. When the present Opposition was in government we saw figures two and three times that percentage. If we look back to April 1 974 we see a figure for one month of 4.1 per cent, compared with 1 .2 per cent for August 1979. We saw a yearly increase of 26 per cent at about that time. The figures during that period were very high indeed. 
It is not possible to assess accurately the flow-on effect on the cost of new houses resulting from these price increases, but one point that must be made is that the housing industry deserves great credit for the way in which it has kept prices down and absorbed cost increases over the past few years. In the whole of the 1978-79 financial year the new house price increase for the consumer price index was only 3 per cent. That was a significant achievement and much credit must go to the home building industry for achieving that amazing result. It has meant that new homes have become much more competitive in price. Although we are concerned about the latest cost increases and the upward movement in the last couple of months, our record in government is very good indeed and I expect that Australia will continue to do very much better than other comparable countries. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Annual Report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization for 1978-79 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present an agreement between the European Space Agency and Australia on the establishment of a space vehicle tracking station in support of the European Space Agency space program together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to that agreement. 
by leave- For the information of honourable members I wish to make a statement on action taken so far by the Government on the recommendations on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation following that Committee's inquiry into off-road vehicles. The Government has taken a number of initiatives as a consequence of recommendations arising from the inquiry into off-road vehicles. I would like to inform the House of these. This is in keeping with the Government's policy that Ministers should make a statement on action stemming from reports of parliamentary committees. 
The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation resolved in September 1975 to inquire into the impact of off-road vehicles on the Australian environment. The Committee's report was tabled in the House in March 1977. The major responsibility for managing off-road, or recreation, vehicles is vested in the State governments. Recommendations in this report refer only to action by the Commonwealth, independently or in conjunction with the States and local government and other bodies. The Government has examined all recommendations and taken a number of actions as a result. 
But Government action can be effective only if it is backed by community awareness and concern. This is particularly true in the case of recreation vehicles, where the behaviour of individual riders and drivers is critical to the protection of the environment. Because of this, the Government has been especially concerned to implement the Committee's recommendations aimed at promoting environmental awareness in recreation vehicle users. One contribution to this has been a film produced by Film Australia for the former Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. The film, called 'Making Tracks', shows in a simple way the effects which vehicles can have on the bush and the beach. It has been made for showing to recreation vehicle clubs, schools, environment centres and all groups which have an interest in recreation vehicles. 
Another activity undertaken by the former Department in this direction was the preparation of a code of ethics for recreation vehicle users. This code was discussed with recreation vehicle organisations and relevant State bodies as recommended by the Standing Committee. The code has been printed as a poster and as a sticker for doors and motorcycle fuel tanks and has been distributed to recreation vehicle clubs, motor registries, automobile associations, environment centres and other relevant bodies. 
The Standing Committee also recommended that the Commonwealth encourage a national symposium on off-road vehicles. A national workshop on off-road vehicle management was held at the Canberra College of Advanced Education last December, and was attended by representatives from the Commonwealth, State and local government, off-road vehicle clubs and environmentalists. The workshop aimed to bring administrators, planners, managers, users of the recreation vehicles and others to a closer understanding and appreciation of the problems involved in the use of recreation vehicles and the potential environmental damage. Other recommendations of the Committee were that the importation of over-snow recreation vehicles be prohibited and that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out before any new type of off-road recreational vehicle was imported. The Government examined these recommendations, but considers that legislation and controls on use after entry into Australia would be far more effective than import restrictions. 
A number of recommendations concerned defence training areas. In association with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Defence Department is continuing its program of regenerating areas damaged by defence training activities. Environment impact statements on the establishment of new defence training areas include consideration of the effects of vehicles on the terrain. The Australian Capital Territory is one area in which the Commonwealth has a direct concern in the regulation of recreation vehicles. The Department of the Capital Territory has examined carefully the Standing Commttee's recommendations. At present the Department monitors the use of trail and mim bikes, operates three bike tracks in the Australian Capital Territory and is looking at further sites for these activities. It is also reviewing the need for a registration system for recreation vehicles. In the States, Victoria and Queensland already have legislation and other 
States and the Northern Territory are considering legislation or other forms of control. 
The Standing Committee's report has been drawn to the attention of members of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers, the Australian Environment Council and the Recreation Ministers' Council. The Ministers concerned have agreed to discuss the recommendations with other State colleagues. In this way, I hope that the report may influence the preparation of control legislation in States which do not have it. Through the ministerial councils we will follow these developments. " 
I would just like to add one further point. In this statement the term 'recreation vehicle' has generally been adopted rather than the term off-road vehicle' which was the term used in the report. The name 'recreation vehicle' is preferred to the term 'off-road vehicle' which I believe encourages a use of vehicles which are intrinsically damaging to the environment. All vehicles should preferably be driven or ridden on some kind of track. In conclusion, let me repeat that the Government has considered the report and taken action as it believes necessary. I hope that recreation vehicle users will support government activity in this field and take care to protect the environment. 
I present the following papen 
Committee on Environment and Conservation: Report on Off-Road Vehicles-Government's Response- Ministerial Statement, 20 September 1979. 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Replacement of cranes at Cockatoo Island dockyard, Sydney, N.S.W. 
The proposal is for the replacement of existing obsolete cranes at Sutherland Dock at Cockatoo Island with three new portable cranes of 30 tonnes, 5 tonnes and 3 tonnes capacity respectively. Ship towing facilities are incorporated in the 5 tonne and 3 tonne cranes. The work will also include associated crane rails and beams on the north and south sides of the dock, building alterations, new pavement around the dock and electrical and civil engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed works at July 1979 prices is $4.2m. I now table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.49 to 2.15 p.m. 
The honourable member for Mitchell is quite right when he speaks of the attack presently under way by certain elements of the union movement, in New South Wales in particular, on the housing industry sub-contract system. I know that he has taken a very keen interest in this subject and has attended a number of meetings on the matter in New South Wales in recent weeks. This attack has been evident for some months, especially in New South Wales, but it has extended to a couple of other States- Victoria and South Australia- involving in particular the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia, which obviously seeks to destroy the self-employed status of tradesmen and other small business people who are involved in this important industry. 
Quite a vigorous campaign is under way. I think it is important that the House be aware of this campaign. The union wants to force people to become employees. It wants to unionise the housing industry, to extend its power and influence over this industry and of course, its income from the subscriptions that employees would be required to pay. Unfortunately, it appears that the New South Wales Government has been influenced by this campaign. It has undertaken an inquiry into the sub-contract system in New South Wales which will be very costly and obviously long drawn out. I believe it will also be an unjustified inquiry in the circumstances. I think that is evident from the vehement defence of the inquiry by  Mr Syd  Einfeld, the Minister for Housing in New South Wales, in sections of the Press this morning. 
It would be a very disastrous thing for the housing industry if this present campaign proves to be successful. The people of New South Wales, in particular, should be aware of what would occur if the sub-contract system were destroyed in that State and indeed, in any other State of Australia. It would obviously reduce the initiative that is shown by these self-employed people- the small business people and the tradesmen involved in the industry. This industry has been able to avoid industrial stoppages that have occurred in other sections of the building industry in recent years, and that is so important to the question of costs in the industry. It would result, no doubt, in a substantial increase in housing costs. I have been told that it would mean at least a 25 per cent increase on the cost of an average house. A gentleman in one of the housing industry bodies indicated to me the cost increase would be over 40 per cent. That is a very substantial increase indeed. Should that increase occur in costs, it would mean that fewer houses would be constructed in Australia. That would be a bad thing for the industry, a bad thing for the community and everybody would be worse off. 
We will be watching the situation very closely indeed because we realise its importance. We have an observer at the present time attending meetings of the inquiry in New South Wales to keep the Government informed of its developments. We believe in the sub-contract system. We recognise its significance for the industry and we will do all we can to support its continuation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, pages 972-3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1970 the Department's Commonwealth construction responsibilities have included responsibility for some Commonwealth Hostels Ltd capital works, including capital works in migrant hostels. 
During the period November 1973 to December 1975 the Minister for Housing and Construction was responsible for (the then) Commonwealth Hostels Ltd- which activities included accommodation services to migrants. 
During the period of the Department's responsibility for Commonwealth Hostels Ltd, the following expenditures were incurred on accommodation services to migrants; the figures appear in Appropriation Acts No. 1 of 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77, and include expenditures incurred by the (overlapping) responsible departments during the 1973-74 and 1 975-76 accounting period: 
The honourable member for Hughes has asked a very interesting question. The percentage of a person's income which he or she spends on housing must be, of course, a matter for his or her individual judgment, based on the needs of his or her family and the way it wants to spend its money. People have different desires in life. Some see housing as vitally important and want to spend much more than others would spend on their accommodation. It comes back to an individual choice. 
I turn from welfare housing and refer to the private housing sector. The honourable member for Hughes will appreciate that lending institutions apply a certain test to people seeking to borrow funds for housing. Most lending institutions apply a test for repayments of about 25 per cent of a person's earnings. These days in most cases they include the earnings of wives which is assisting more families to get into houses. The point I want to make is that this Government wants people to be able to get into either rental housing or their own homes. This means that we must endeavour, as we are endeavouring, to contain costs as much as possible. There is no doubt that the value of the savings that people put away to get into a house is not being eroded now as it was eroded during the period of the honourable member's own government between 1972 and 1975. We are doing very much better than his government managed to do in those days. 
-The honourable member's question really relates to the rates of inflation in this country. I think it is worth while recalling the impact of the policies of the Labor Government when it was in office between 1972 and 1975 and the disastrous impact that those policies had on the housing industry, on rent levels in Australia and on the opportunities for Australians to obtain suitable accommodation. Between 1972 and 1975- during the period of office of the Labor Government- interest rates soared 4 per cent. 
-Today must be my day. This financial year the Government has provided $75m under the Home Savings Grants Scheme. In last year's Budget we provided $20m. So that is an increase of $5 5 m. That money will assist many young married couples and young people who want to get into a home to bridge the deposit gap. Of course the deposit gap is not as critical as it used to be a few years ago because these days people can obtain a higher percentage of the value of a house by way of a loan and often an insured loan. There are many instances of young couples borrowing 90 per cent to 95 per cent of the value of a house. The Home Savings Grants Scheme is one which honourable members opposite, when they were in government, decided to abolish. We believe it is a very valuable scheme. We want to see it continued, and that is why we are providing additional funds in this financial year. The important point is that more homes are now being constructed in Australia. Commencements rose by 1 1 per cent in the second half of the financial year 1978-79. It is true that that percentage varied between one place and another and between one State and another. There has been a problem in Victoria. Commencements have been flat there. I concede that. But generally building activity has been very good. Certainly in Sydney, according to many people in the real estate industry, we have seen almost a boom. Confidence is building up and certainly that has an effect on prices. But that has a spin-off for the home building industry because as prices for established houses increase and demand increases, thereby new houses become more competitive. Again, we are seeing many more new houses being constructed in 
New South Wales. That is a very good thing for the industry and for employment in that State. 
So generally the Government is doing a great deal for young home buyers. The Home Savings Grants Scheme continues with increased amounts. The Government is keeping the cost of housing down and is restraining interest rates. Of course interest rates are controlled by market forces and cannot be kept down artificially. But they are being restrained and they are very stable compared with what they were during that disastrous period between 1972 and 1975. The Government's record is a good one and the Government stands by it. It is satisfied with the way its housing policies are working; these policies are working very well. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment on grants to voluntary conservation organisations. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Aci  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a new terminal complex at Coolangatta Aerodrome, Queensland. 
This proposal is for the construction of a terminal complex to accommodate passengers, airline and concession operators, aircraft movement areas and support facilities to replace existing terminal facilities which are inadequate for the current volume of passenger traffic. The facilities will comprise: Terminal building; aircraft apron; roads; carpark and engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work examined by the Committee was $4.465m at May 1979 prices. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal, the Committee has requested that the matter of security be kept under regular review and that if Commonwealth Police and/or departmental security staff are required, they should be located within the terminal building. The Government notes this request and will ensure that the matter is kept under regular review and that appropriate accommodation is provided as and when necessary, in consultation with the relevant authorities. Upon concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of the Darwin patrol boat base at Larrakeyah, NT. 
The proposal is for the construction of support facilities for the new Fremantle class patrol boats and comprises: A breakwater to provide a sheltered harbour; dredging; berth facilities for up to six patrol boats; ship vertical lift facility to lift boats out of the water for maintenance; covered two-bay maintenance shed, workships, stores and administration facilities; and associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work examined by the Committee was $ 1 7.75m at June 1 979 prices. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal, the Committee has recommended that the Department of Housing and Construction liaise with the 
Northern Territory authorities to ensure that inconvenience to the residents of Larrakeyah from heavy vehicles during construction is minimised. The Government notes this recommendation and will ensure that the Department of Housing and Construction continues its liaison with the Northern Territory authorities so that this particular requirement and recommendation of the Committee are met. Upon concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures on a monthly basis are not received in my Department. Figures available are provided in the following tables: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage came into force on 19 December 1975. Countries which are parties to the Convention are required to take appropriate legal measures towards the identification, protection, conservation, presentation and rehabilitation of their cultural and natural heritage. Australia has fulfilled her obligations under the Convention by the passage of the Australian Heritage Commission Act in 1975 and the creation of the Australian Heritage Commission. 
The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat has been examined by legal officers in concerned departments and it is considered that the Convention does not require regulations under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975. The Convention imposes responsibilities which may be met either administratively or by action under existing legislation. 
Drafting instructions for the preparation of regulations to implement the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals were sent to the Attorney-General 's Department on 7 August 1 978. Regulations have not yet been drafted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A conference of Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers in April 1978 established a working party of officials to give effect to the requirement of clause 18 (2) of the 1978 Housing Agreement. Later the same month the working party met to discuss the approach towards alleviation of hardship for those not able to afford ceiling rents fixed for housing authority dwellings, and to consider the principles involved in calculating rental rebates. 
A working party paper reporting on progress and identifying the general principles which should be considered in the development of a uniform system of rental rebates was presented to a conference of Commonwealth and State officials in November 1978. 
Rental rebate policies will be covered in the 1978-1979 Annual Report to Parliament required by the Housing Assistance Act 1978. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Act 1970 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation 1 979. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In response to a request from the Office of the Supervising Scientist, 19 CSIRO officers participated in a Workshop on Environmental Programs in the Alligator River Region which was held at Jabiru from 21-25 August 1978. The Office of the Supervising Scientist met half the cost of the air fares for these scientists who came from the following Divisions: 
Entomology 
Fisheries and Oceanography 
Irrigation Research 
Land Resources Management 
Land Use Research 
Mineralogy 
Soils 
Textile Physics 
Wildlife Research 
Subsequent to the Workshop, the Division of Entomology is advising the Supervising Scientist on insect problems at the Jabiru townsite and is carrying out an exploratory study into the use of insects for environmental monitoring in the region. At the present time, other Divisions are discussing with the Supervising Scientist what further assistance CSIRO might provide and additional environmental projects are likely to be commenced when the present program of appointing technical staff to the Office has been completed. 
Self-service Petrol Stations  (Question No. 4661) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1978 Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement gives the States autonomy and flexibility in administering housing arrangements, including determination of market related rents and how those rents would be applied. 
The rental procedures that apply in each State are outlined below. This information is based on material provided by each State. 
In New South Wales a ceiling rent of 80 per cent of the level of rents for similar dwellings in the private rental market, is applied to all new and vacated dwellings. For existing tenants weekly rents are increased by $5 each year until they reach the market related rent for that dwelling. 
Victoria applies rents related to the average rents for similar privately-owned housing, to both new and vacated Housing Commission dwellings. The maximum rent increase in one year is limited to $6 per week until the market related rent is reached. 
The Queensland Housing Commission has adopted a system based on a minimum rent of $42 per week, which represents 87.5 per cent of market rent. When the scheme commenced, in February 1979, all existing rents were increased by $2.60 per week. Those still below $42 were then further increased by an amount up to $3.40, provided they did not exceed the minimum rent. The Commission has continued to calculate rents on new dwellings on a cost rent basis. Special assessments are made to determine rents for Commission dwellings in depressed country towns. 
A rent based on an 'economic rent' formula is applied to new South Australian Housing Trust rental dwellings. The rent paid by most existing tenants and by those moving into vacant dwellings is at a market related level. These rents are reviewed annually and increased if necessary, to meet increasing costs. 
The Western Australian State Housing Commission has adopted a level of 80 per cent of a conservative average rent for a comparable dwelling in the open metropolitan market, as its market-related rent. Annual increases towards that level are limited to $5 per week. 
In February 1979, Tasmania decided to apply a maximum increase in weekly rents of $10, and adopted a maximum weekly rental for a Housing Division dwelling of $40. Maximum rents for country areas are 10 per cent less than rent for similar dwellings in the nearest town or city. For some older types of dwellings the Tasmanian Housing Division set the maximum rent at $32 per week. 
For those tenants unable to pay rent levels set, a system of rent rebates applies in each State. This is to ensure that hardship is avoided. 
Trade with Malta (Question No. 4526) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Housing and Construction for the 1978-79 financial year. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The following annual kangaroo harvest quotas were proposed by the States and accepted by the Commonwealth: 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
) Public Service staff will be closely involved in management and technical aspects of Landsat and will have responsibility for monitoring technical developments relating to Landsat, both overseas and in Australia, to ensure that the best possible use is made of the facility to meet Australia's needs. 
A consideration of staff ceilings was not one of the issues which led to the decision in 197S to employ a contractor for the Landsat project. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of new arrangements for consultation with the building and construction industry. The Government wants to ensure that decisions made take into account the needs of the building industry, the aspirations of the people working within it and the requirements of the general community it serves. By working closely with industry representatives through consultation government is brought closer to the people on whose behalf decisions are made. With these principles and goals in mind two new councilsthe Housing Advisory Council and the Construction Industry Council- are to be established. They will provide the means for effective exchange of information and ideas between the Government and community and industry groups. Both bodies will be chaired by the responsible Minister of the day and will replace the Housing Advisory Committee and the National Building and Construction Council Government Consultative Committee. It is proposed that the new councils will meet twice a year but may meet more frequently if special issues arise requiring consultation. 
The decisions to establish these important bodies have been taken after very careful review of existing arrangements extending over a period of some nine months and following full and detailed consultation with the relevant industry groups. The Housing Advisory Council will be chaired by the Minister for Housing and Construction with the Secretary of that Department holding the position of  Deputy Chairman.  The other members of the Council will be the elected office holders of: The Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies, the Australian Bankers' Association, the Housing Industry Association, the Master Builders' Federation of Australia, the Real Estate Institute of Australia, and the Urban Development Institute of Australia. In addition, the  Chairman  of the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry will be an ex officio member of the Council. This confirms the important role of the Indicative 
Planning Council in providing advice to the Government and ensures an appropriate coordination of activities between the bodies. The Minister will also appoint up to two nominees to sit on the Council. It is intended that they should be people with a broad background in housing policy issues. 
The nature and qualifications of the Housing Advisory Council indicate the Government's keen desire to liaise with experienced practical people who work within one or other of the key sections of the housing industry. Observers from the Department of Treasury and other relevant government departments will also attend meetings of the Council when appropriate. The terms of reference of the Council are to 'advise the Minister for Housing and Construction on matters relating to access to housing, Commonwealth housing programs, the efficiency of housing markets and the efficiency and health of the housing industry'. 
In the review of the consultative arrangements it became evident that there was widespread support from people within the industry, State governments and other interested parties for the Housing Industry Indicative Planning Council. The Commonwealth Government endorses this support and at the same time acknowledges the excellent contribution made by the chairmen and members, past and present, of the Indicative Planning Council. No major changes in the Council's membership or structure are therefore contemplated; however, I shall be asking it to streamline its working methods which I believe will be in the interests of the service it provides both to the Government and the industry. In order to meet the objectives of keeping the Government properly informed on aspects of housing and the housing industry, the terms of reference of the Indicative Planning Council are to be extended. This will allow the Council to provide the responsible Minister of the day with a greater range of advice especially concerning housing demand, industry activity levels and capacity. 
The Construction Industry Council is the other body to be established. It will also have broad terms of reference dealing with the nonresidential building and construction sector. It will advise the Minister for Housing and Construction on matters relating to the efficiency and levels of activity of the non-residential building and construction industry. In doing so it will play an important role in ensuring that the Government is fully aware of the broad problems and needs of the non-residential building and construction industry. The membership of that 
Council will comprise the Minister as  Chairman,  the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Construction as  Deputy Chairman,  four industry representatives chosen from panels of names provided to the Minister by the industry organisations which constitute the National Building and Construction Council and three nominees of the Minister. In appointing nominees to this body the Government intends that there should be a broad representation from the industry as a whole. As with the Housing Advisory Council, the Construction Industry Council will therefore be comprised of experienced practical people well qualified to keep the Government in touch with the industry and informed about its problems. I expect to announce the names of the members of these councils within the next month and anticipate that the inaugural meetings of both bodies will take place early in the new year. These revised arrangements are a significant step forward in relations between the industry and the Government and I know they will be welcomed by the industry and the community at large. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under the agreed procedures applying to matching funding arrangements in 1978-79 each State was required to provide by15 October 1978 a program of proposals to attract matching advances including a brief description of the nature of each scheme and estimate of expenditure on each scheme in 1978-79. 
In addition, each State is required to furnish, as soon as possible after the end of the financial year, a statement showing actual expenditure during the year on approved schemes, that statement to be certified as to its correctness by a person appointed by the State Minister for Housing. These have yet to be received. 
The following is a summary of proposals for expenditure in 1 978-79 submitted last year by each State to attract its pro rata share of the available matching advances of $130m, together with the sources of State funds. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The preparation of the Plan of Management is well advanced and it is expected it is expected it will be completed in the near future. 
Kakadu National Park is proclaimed under the Commonwealth National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 and responsibility for the preparation of the Plan of Management rests with the Director National Parks and Wildlife. Officers of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service have been engaged in the preparation of the Plan. 
Following negotiation between the Commonwealth and the Northern Land Council, leases with the Kakadu Land Trust and associated agreements with the Northern Land Council were signed by the Director National Parks and Wildlife on 4 November 1978. The documents were tabled on 7 November 1978. Consultations and discussions with the Northern Land Council and traditional owners, have been undertaken many times during the course of the development of the Plan of Management. The agreement with the NLC provides for the close involvement of Aboriginals in the planning and management of the Park. The Plan is required to be prepared in consultation with the NLC and full account taken of the interests of traditional Aboriginal owners. Implementation of Aboriginal training programs is required to enable Aborigines to assist in management and control. Specific provision is included regarding Aboriginal sacred sites. Undertakings have already been given regarding protection of art sites. 
When the Directoor has prepared the Plan of Management he is required, under Section 1 1 ( 10) of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1 975 , to state by public notice that the Plan has been prepared and invite representations in connexion with the Plan. 
The Notice of Intention to prepare the Plan of Management was issued on 19 April and submissions were sought by 1 June. Submissions were received from the followinggroups, organisations and companies and individuals: 
Received on or before 1 June 1979. 
CRA Exploration Pty Ltd. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Research Grants Committee on grants approved for 1980 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to the report. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (1)and (2)Yes 
As indicated by his answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4621, the Minister for Health has asked the National Health and Medical Research Council (NH&amp;MRC) to examine the health problems of lead urgently. The NH&amp;MRC 's advice will assist the Minister to indicate desirable goals and appropriate guidelines designed for the protection of health. The Minister for Science and the Environment will consult with his colleague, the Minister for Health, on these matters when the NH&amp;MRC's advice has been received. 
The National Air Quality Data Centre (NAQDC) is established within the Department of Science and the Environment to collate air quality statistics, including data of atmospheric lead levels, in collaboration with State authorities. Such data will assist in the evaluation of the atmospheric lead problem and the development of appropriate responses. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to the book  Seal Song.  I have not viewed the film  Warm Blood on White Ice,  although I am aware of its existence. 
The Canadian High Commission has advised that Italy is the only European nation to have banned the importation of baby seal products. 
Yes. The Government's response has been to advise that the Australian Government is very conscious of the need to conserve flora and fauna which are threatened by commercial exploitation. Both Australia and Canada are parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The Convention is designed to regulate trade in endangered species and their products to ensure the survival of species of wild fauna and flora that are or may be threatened with extinction by uncontrolled trade. 
The Convention provides for the listing of species endangered through trading on one of three Appendices depending on the degree to which they may be endangered. Neither the harp seal, nor the hooded seal which is also taken during the Canadian seal hunt, are listed on any of these Appendices. Should evidence be forthcoming that either species is endangered by continued hunting the Prime Minister has said that the Australian Government would seek to have the species included in one of the CITES Appendices. 
Pursuant to section 53 of the Homes Savings Grant Act 1976, 1 present an interim annual report on the operation of that Act for 1978-79. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision, announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his statement of 24 May 1979, to reintroduce a value limit on qualifying homes, including land, for which home savings grants may be made. These new arrangements will ensure that available funds are directed to assisting those people in most need of financial help in purchasing their homes. Other eligibility conditions of the scheme will not be altered by the Bill. Grants will continue to be payable to single people as well as to married people, and for both established and newly constructed homes, whether purchased or constructed through a building contractor or by an owner- builder. Qualifying homes include separate houses, semidetached dwellings, home units and flats; whether in suburban areas, in country towns or on rural properties. The home must be the applicant's first home in Australia, and he or she must own the land or hold tenure in an approved form. Newcomers to Australia also qualify if they had a right of permanent residence here when they acquired their homes. 
I remind members of the House of the savings provisions in the principal Act. In order to qualify for the maximum grant of $2,000, an applicant must have held acceptable savings of $6,000 or more, and have saved over a period of at least three years ending on the date of the contract to buy or build the home. The maximum grant of $2,000 is payable for homes bought or built since 1 January 1979. Smaller grants are payable, at the rate of $1 for each $3 acceptable savings, on shorter savings periods of one year or two years, or on acceptable savings of less than $6,000. The main forms of acceptable savings are those held with savings banks and building societies, which provide the bulk of the long term finance for private housing. The new value limit will apply to people who contracted to buy or build their homes, or who commenced construction of their homes as owner-builders, after 24 May when the new arrangements were announced. 
The Government decided that it was necessary to re-introduce a value limit so that the limited funds available for payment of grants would be directed to those people in greatest need of assistance. People whose first home is a more expensive one stand less in need of assistance from the Commonwealth, and hence the taxpayer, to achieve home ownership. A value limit on homes, which applied under the first home savings grant scheme and was envisaged in our 1975 pre-election policy statement foreshadowing re-introduction of the scheme, which the former Labor Government had legislated to abolish, is generally regarded as the fairest practicable way of directing assistance. We believe that a value limit on qualifying homes is a more equitable course than the alternatives of paying smaller grants to all first home buyers, regardless of need, or of excluding from eligibility particu-  lar groups, such as single people. 
Industry groups agree. The Australian Bankers Association's research directorate has described the value limit as 'a sensible decision' and the Real Estate Institute of Australia welcomed the measure as 'a simple and effective form of means test'. It is also worth recording that before the decision was announced, the Opposition's spokesman on housing had been critical of the fact that people buying very expensive houses were eligible for a grant. At the time of  the announcement of the value limit earlier this year it was recognised that the limit would need to be reviewed from time to time to ensure that the amounts remain appropriate. 
The Bill provides that a grant will not be payable if the value of the home, including the land, the dwelling, and any other improvements to the land, exceeds $40,000. People acquiring homes valued at less than $35,000 will continue to be eligible for the full grant of up to $2,000, subject, of course, to their qualifying savings. Where the value of the home falls between $35,000 and $40,000 the grant will reduce progressively as value increases. The Bill permits variation of these limits by regulation. 
The value of the relevant interest in the home is to be determined by the Secretary to my Department, having regard to certain matters. The value will be the value of the home when it is erected in its completed state, including the value of any work not completed at the date the value is determined. In most cases, the point in time at which the value is determined will be the person's prescribed date. This date is referred to in the existing legislation and is the date the applicant entered into the contract to buy or build his home, or commenced its construction as an owner-builder. It is the date to which all eligibility requirements relate. 
Honourable members might appreciate an explanation of clause 4 of the Bill. There are situations where an applicant owns a dwelling jointly with another person, but where the dwelling is for the exclusive use of the applicant and is not occupied by that other person, who may have joined in the title merely to assist in the loan security. That other person may own another home or be otherwise ineligible, and it would be unfair to disqualify the genuine applicant because of this type of joint title situation. The existing legislation enables the interest of the other person to be disregarded where there is a joint ownership in these circumstances. Clause 4 of the Bill extends this provision to joint ownership of shares in a block of home units. 
In the majority of applications, the value will be the cost set out in the purchase or building contract, excluding the value of any chattels, and excluding also the value of any part of the land or dwelling not used for domestic purposes. For example, where a property is used for primary production, land in excess of one-fifth of a hectare will be excluded from the value. Also, the value of the business area of a shop and dwelling may be excluded. Correspondingly, savings expended on the non-domestic element will be excluded from savings that attract a grant. 
To ensure that the limit applies uniformly and equitably to all applicants, in cases where the Secretary has reason to believe that the figure shown in the contract or the stated cost is not a reasonable approximation of the value- for example, a home bought from or built by a relative of the applicant at a concessional price, or a home built wholly or partly by the applicant with his own labour and materials- arrangements will be made for the true value to be assessed by the Commissioner of Taxation. Work done or items supplied outside the main building or purchase contract will be valued and included in the value for the purposes of the limit. The value of land gifted by another person and improvements or fixtures, such as a carport or stove, will also be included. 
It must be realised that the majority of people who have received grants under the Scheme are young married couples on moderate incomes acquiring modest homes. The intention of the Scheme has always been to assist such people and the new arrangements enable this assistance to continue. First home buyers purchase far less expensive dwellings than families purchasing a subsequent home. Australian families have long had a tradition of starting out by purchasing a modest home suited to their current needs and realistically within their reach. Later, when their circumstances permit, some will move to a larger house or to a more expensive location. 
Figures for home savings grant approvals for 1978-79 show that for Australia as a whole about 80 per cent of recipients who purchased a home paid less than $40,000. For New South Wales the figure was 78 per cent and for Victoria about 72 per cent. The figures show that the average first home buyer in Australia is a young family purchasing a house costing about $34,000, although this figure obviously varies between cities. Details are available in the interim statement on the operation of the Scheme in 1978-79 which I tabled in this House this morning. Since the Home Savings Grant Scheme first commenced in 1964 some 500,000 grants, totalling nearly $300m have been made to help people buy their first home. 
-That is right; $300m. This year $75m has been provided- an increase of $55m over last year. This is substantial evidence of the Government's continuing commitment to home ownership. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council on radiological safety and future land use in the Monte Bello Islands. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Department of Housing and Construction on Project Management and Other Options for Public Works'. The Public Works Committee referred the subject to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure and the report was prepared by the Department at the request of the  Chairman  of that Committee. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard, 6  November 1979, page 2657). 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965 I present the annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
I want initially to make two points: Firstly, this Government is providing more money in financing the Home Savings Grants Scheme than has been provided in any one year by any previous government. This financial year we are expending $75m on the Home Savings Grants Scheme. That is more than twice the previous highest figure paid out in any one year. Honourable members will recall that in January of this year we increased to $2,000 the maximum amount payable for a grant under the Scheme. Secondly, we have also broadened the qualifying conditions under the Scheme so that it now applies not only to married people but also to single people, and there is no longer any age limit. They are important facts that I think the House should take into account. Despite the value limit which has been imposed and which was announced by the Treasurer on 24 May this year, the vast majority of applicants for home savings grants will qualify for grants in this financial year. In the last financial year over 80 per cent of first home buyers around Australia paid $40,000 or less for their home. Again this financial year a very substantial percentage of first home buyers will qualify for a grant. 
The honourable member for Wakefield raised the question of inequities between regions. In particular he raised the problem of people in remote areas having to pay more for houses. That is certainly a problem for those building or buying houses in remote areas- for example, on farms- and also in some particular metropolitan areas of Australia. It has been suggested that we should be looking at a differential value system whereby different value rates would apply to different areas of Australia. I believe that that is something at which we should be looking carefully. In fact, we are looking at it carefully. 
For the information of honourable members I present the sixth report by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council entitled 'Radioactive Waste Management 1979', together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Region, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to that annual report. 
I was surprised when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  entered the chamber to take part in this debate. From my recollection, it is the first time he has debated the subject of housing in this House in a period of four years. In this debate we are talking about the Home Savings Grants Scheme. In the present financial year, we are providing $75m. an increase of $55m over the previous financial year. As I said earlier today, this is the largest amount of money that any government has provided for this Scheme. I do not apologise for being an enthusiastic supporter of home ownership. I wish I could say the same thing about the Leader of the Opposition and honourable members opposite. They have shown, through their record, that they do not have the same sort of support for home ownership or for the Home Savings Grants Scheme. 
What cheek and hypocrisy it is for honourable members opposite to come into this House and debate this issue and to criticise the structure of the Home Savings Grants Scheme and the detail of the administration of that Scheme, when they abolished it in 1975. That was a great disappointment to many young future home buyers in Australia. The Labor Party let down home buyers. Our policies as a government have been most successful. The welfare waiting lists around Australia have been reduced. They are smaller now than they were when the Labor Government was in office. At that time, the number on the waiting lists was over 100,000; now that figure is down by over 20,000. So we are having some success in reducing welfare housing lists. 
Inflation is the key to home ownership. If we are to improve access to home ownership, we must get inflation under control. Again, we are proving to be far more successful in this area than the Labor Party was when it was in office. The rate of increase in the cost of building materials has been reduced. We are now looking at a rate of 9 per cent or 10 per cent. There is some pressure on in that area at the moment. When the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  was a Minister, the rate of inflation for home building materials was over 26 per cent in one year. We have halved that rate. So again we have been most successful. The rate of increase in interest rates has been markedly reduced. Since we have been in office, interest rates have remained essentially stable for housing loans around Australia. In some cases, they have been reduced. We all remember that when Labor was in office, month after month, young couples received notices from their building societies or their banks saying: 'I am sorry, but your interest rates are going to go up'. So that was the record of the Labor Government. Young people received notices saying: 'Your instalments on your repayments are going to go up'. Those notices arrived month after month. That was the Labor Government's record. Are Opposition members proud of that record? On average, people are now paying less out of their weekly incomes for home repayments or for rent than they were when the Labor Government was in office. 
The Leader of the Opposition cited a few figures in regard to home ownership. I do not know where he got them from, but they are not in accord with the official figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The latest survey, taken in November 1978, shows that there is a home ownership rate in Australia of 73 per cent. 
That is the highest home ownership rate that we have ever had. So overall, the housing situation has improved since we took office. Access to home ownership has improved since we took office. Of course that is not to say that there are not problems. There are problems and we are seeking to overcome them. But I suggest to all honourable members that those problems were greater when the Labor Party was in office because it did not appreciate how those people who want to purchase their own homes can be assisted. As I say, the primary way of doing that is to get inflation under control. The whole of Australia knows what a poor record the Labor Party had when it was in office in trying to control inflation. The Labor Government totally failed the Australian people; it totally failed young home buyers, the young people seeking to own their own homes. The record speaks for itself. 
Access to home ownership has improved. The report of the housing cost inquiry showed that between 1966 and 1977 access to home ownership improved in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. The inquiry did not look at the other capital cities; they were not covered. A recent study conducted by  Mr R.  Cardew concluded that accessibility to home ownership in Sydney improved between 1974 and 1978. For the period since then, estimates of average prices paid for dwellings by first home buyers in each capital city and around Australia show that there has been a continuing improvement in accessibility to home ownership between 1977 and 1979 in all Australian capital cities. The overall improvement in access to home ownership reflects the steady improvement in the availability of housing finance. In the last financial year, we saw a 21 per cent increase in the gross amount of housing finance provided by the banks and the permanent building societies around Australia. Average weekly earnings are growing at a rate faster than that of dwelling prices. For example, average weekly earnings in Australia in 1978-79 grew by 7.7 per cent compared with an increase in dwelling prices of 4.4 per cent. Reductions in personal income tax rates are enabling families to save the deposit for a home more quickly than they could, again, when the Labor Party was in office. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we are debating the Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill 1979. As I was saying before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, this financial year the Government is providing additional funds for the Home Savings Grants Scheme to help those people in Australia who are seeking to purchase their first home. This financial year we are providing $75m-the most that has ever been provided by any government in financing this scheme. The amount payable by way of a grant was increased to $2,000 in January of this year. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, the general eligibility provisions have been widened so that not only married people but also single people can qualify for a grant. There is no longer any age limit. The purpose of this Bill is to ensure that the money made available for this scheme to provide grants for people buying their first home should go to those most in need. That is the purpose of providing for the value limit. What I would like to know is this: Does the Opposition support a value limit, given that there is a Home Savings Grants Scheme which will continue into the foreseeable future? Does the Opposition accept that there should be a value limit? I suspect that it would probably agree that in all the circumstances there should be a value limit, and that people who can afford to purchase a home for $60,000, $80,000 or $100,000 should not be provided with substantial assistance out of taxpayers' funds and that, if possible, the money available should go to those in most need to enable them to get into a home of their own. As I have said, that is the purpose of this Bill. 
The Government opposes the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Reid. It refers specifically to Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, and comments have been made about the prices being paid - 
I am sorry. It also refers to Darwin. Honourable members opposite have commented on the prices paid for houses in those cities. It has been suggested that the value limits will not provide assistance for those people. I mention to the House that the interim statements on the operation of the Home Savings Grants Scheme in 1978-79, which I tabled last week, indicate that of the people who purchased homes in Sydney- these are first homes- 73 per cent bought homes for less than $40,000 in that financial year. In Melbourne the figure was 69 per cent, and in Perth 86 per cent. So from those figures it is clear that the majority of people buying their first home will still qualify for a grant. Of course, in this financial year we anticipate spending $75m to assist these people to get into a home of their own. Therefore, the Government does oppose the amendment and I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The States have provided the following information concerning their policies regarding sales of dwellings covered by the 1978 Housing Agreement:- 
New South Wales: Sales are made to tenants at a price which is the higher of cost, or market value. Purchasers secure finance through banks, building societies or other financial institutions. 
Since October 1976 sales have been prohibited in those parts of the metropolitan areas where the rental housing stock is regarded as irreplaceable. During 1978-79 many of the sales were in country towns. 
Victoria: Rental dwellings are sold at market value. Sales are financed by the Victorian Housing Commission using Home Purchase Assistance Account funds. The Commission is an authorized lender under that program and lends exclusively to its own tenants who are purchasing a rental dwelling. At the date of sale the Housing Commission transfers the total value of the loan from the Home Purchase Assistance Account to its Rental Housing Assistance Account. This enables the Commission to replace the dwelling which has been sold with another rental dwelling. Security is normally by Contract of Sale, but can be converted to mortgage later. 
Queensland: Rental dwellings are sold to tenants at replacement value less allowance for depreciation and the redemption amount paid in rents by the particular tenant. Depending on deposit availability, security is either contract of sale or mortgage. 
The Queensland Housing Commission is an authorized lender under the Home Purchase Assistance scheme and sales are financed from this source. 
South Australia: Only detached rental dwellings have been sold and only to tenants. Brick and brick veneer dwellings may be sold to tenants after twelve months occupancy. Timber frame dwellings are sold only to tenants occupying prior to 1 April 1972. 
Brick and brick veneer dwellings are sold for market value less $300 rent credit and less the value of improvements made by the tenant. Timber frame dwellings are sold for market value less rent credit representing 4-1/8 per cent of capital cost of dwellings per year of occupancy and less the value of improvements made by the tenant. Purchasers secure finance through banks, building societies or other financial institutions. 
Western Australia: All State Housing Commission dwellings are sold at market value. Purchasers secure finance from banks, building societies or other financial institutions. 
Tasmania: Rental dwellings are sold at market value, as assessed by the Valuer-General. Purchasers secure finance from banks, building societies or other financial institutions. 
The question of rents has been raised a number of times by the honourable member for Reid. As I have indicated to the House on previous occasions, on the information available from the Bureau of Statistics and on a careful analysis of that information, a person on average weekly earnings is spending a lower percentage of those earnings on average rent in the capital cities of Australia than he was four or five years ago, during the period of the Government of which the honourable member for Reid was a representative and a Minister. As I have said, in the area of rents and in the area of prices for land and for houses, the position has improved significantly while this Government has been in office. The same position applies across the board in most of the important indicators for housing. The housing situation is now far better, on a broad range of statistics, than it was in December 1975 when this Government came to office, and I have referred previously to the situation in respect of building materials. 
I know that the honourable member for Reid is particularly concerned about the rental situation. That position is clear; there has been an improvement. As far as home purchase is concerned, there has also been an improvement. We are concerned about those who want to rent and those who are renting houses at the present time. We are equally concerned about improving the position of those who want to purchase a house. I do not mind saying as a Minister that I am a keen supporter of home ownership, and this Government is a keen supporter of home ownership. This Government's record on home ownership and rental housing is far better than the record of the Australian Labor Party when it was in office. 
-At this stage it is a little too early to gauge precisely the impact of this important decision on the construction industry around Australia, but there are signs to suggest that this important initiative will have a significant impact over time. We have only one set of figures available at present on which to try to judge the impact of the decision. They are the figures for building approvals. In September this year there was a 45 per cent increase in hotel building approvals around Australia- a very substantial increase indeed. Honourable members may have noticed in the Press, I think it was last week, the announcement that a decision had been made to construct a S45m 600-room hotel in Sydney. It is to be constructed by an Asian-based consortium. 
I understand that a number of other hotel projects of similar magnitude are under way and going through the pre-commencement stages in various parts of Australia. In fact, independent research reveals that currently around Australia $600m worth of hotel work is in active planning and proceeding toward commencement. As a comparison, in 1978 the value of actual commencements in the hotel and motel sector of the building industry totalled a little under $80m. So we are now looking at $600m worth of projects as against $80m worth of projects for 1978. That is certainly a very substantial increase. It is becoming obvious that this decision will have a very beneficial impact on the building and construction industry in the months ahead, and indeed in the years ahead. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Science and the Environment 1978-79. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of National Biological Standards Laboratory and Australian Dental Standards Laboratory, Symonston, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposed work is the construction of an integrated laboratory complex on a 20-hectare site at Symonston. This site already accommodates the brucella vaccine testing laboratory, which is part of the National Biological Standards Laboratory. The laboratory complex will enable the National Biological Standards Laboratory to carry out its function of ensuring that therapeutic products available in Australia for human and veterinary use are safe and effective. The facilities will comprise general laboratories, experimental animal houses, animal breeding areas, service areas, office accommodation, fencing, yards, and a feed shed for handling stock. The facilities will provide high levels of microbiological security for certain functional areas which must be kept free of contaminants and for areas from which contaminants must not escape. Provision will also be made for access roads, car parking, landscaping and storm water control. The estimated cost of the proposed work examined by the Committee was $26m at June 1979 prices. 
In reporting favourably on the proposed work, the Committee requested that the construction of the dam and drainage plans be re-evaluated with a view to obtaining savings in construction costs and reductions in maintenance commitments. The Government has noted the request of the Committee and will ensure that appropriate control measures are provided at the least possible cost consistent with minimising erosion and the progressive accumulation of silt downstream of the site. The Government will ensure that the Committee is advised of the outcome of the reevaluation which takes place during the design development. If the House agrees to support this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for National Development in answer to Question No. 4328, (House of Representatives  Hansard, 6  November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
Australian Capital Territory: Non-residential Leases  (Question No. 4367) 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The undertaking was contained in documents provided on 3 November 1978 to representatives of the Northern Land Council (representing the traditional Aboriginal owners). These documents were appended to the leases which were signed by a representative of the Kakadu Land Trust and the Director, National Parks and Wildlife. The leases provided that the Aboriginal land was incorporated into Kakadu National Park. 
Section 26 of the Prescriptive Section of the draft Plan of Management for Kakadu National Park contains this undertaking. The relevant paragraphs of Section 26 are as follows: 
Sites of Special Aboriginal Significance. 26.1 Background. 
The escarpment and its outliers have many sites of Aboriginal significance. A feature is the thousands of Aboriginal paintings. These are vulnerable to many destructive forces. While Aboriginal society in the area was intact many of the art sites were repainted. The paintings, especially the complex polychrome 'X-ray' designs, are now ageing and in danger of deterioration. 
While some repainting may still occur, it appears that the major problem will be maintenance and preservation of the sites. This asset of the Park is vulnerable to destruction and decay, and unlike living resources, it is unlikely that it can be replaced. 26.2 Preservation. 26.2. 1 Staff: The Director will permit and require persons from time to dme chosen by him after consultation with a representative of the Northern Land Council, being persons employed or engaged in park management, to assist the Northern Land Council in the identification and recording of Aboriginal sacred sites in the Park. Reasonable equipment and facilities to enable such persons to so assist the Northern Land Council will be made available. 
Park staff will be appointed to monitor known sites, recommend protective measures that are necessary, collect and record information, and maintain liaison with the Aboriginal people and the Northern Land Council. Where the traditional Aboriginal owners wish details of sites not to be disclosed, proper security precautions will be taken in recording and storing information. 26.2.2 Traditional Aboriginal owners: All traditional Aboriginal owners will be encouraged to accept responsibility for care and maintenance of their own sites. Access to sites of special Aboriginal significance will be restricted to persons approved by the traditional Aboriginal owners. 26.2.3 Research into Destructive Agencies: In conjunction with the traditional Aboriginal owners the Service will carry out research to protect art sites. The advice of expert authorities from Australia and overseas will be obtained as necessary.' 
The Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service has commenced work in relation to the protection of art sites in Kakadu National Park. 
An officer of the Service is working full-time in Kakadu National Park documenting and recording art sites for protection and carrying out protection measures. 
A study of rock an sites in Kakadu and an investigation of the use of photogrammetic techniques to study rock an and archeological sites have been completed by consultants for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. The report of both studies are available. 
In addition in the 1979-80 period the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service plans further research into the protection of an sites. Consultants will be employed to study the archeology of Kakadu National Park, the location and distribution of Aboriginal musuems and an sites, and the effects and control of nest-building wasps and termites on Aboriginal rock an sites. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. The level of funding for the program of grants to voluntary conservation bodies has been as follows: 
1 973-74-S32 3,000; 1 974-7 5 -$3 5 3,000 1975-76-$390,000; 1976-77-$ 40 0,000 1977-78-$400,000; 1978-79-$350,000 1979-80-$350,000. 
Organisations and sums allocated are as follows (see attached table). 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The grants to voluntary conservation bodies program was reviewed by the Australian Heritage Commission in 1978. 
The voluntary conservation bodies assisted significantly in the review. 
Some of the key points to emerge from the review were published in the 1977-78 Annual Report of the Australian Heritage Commission and are thus available to the voluntary conservation organisations and the public. 
Not applicable. 
I have decided to examine the program in the light of the changes to administrative responsibilities for the program with the creation of the Department of Science and the Environment last December. 
The review by the Australian Heritage Commission will be considered in the examination. In addition, on this occasion, I will be receiving the views of State Governments, appropriate parliamentary committees and many other groups and individuals that have shown an interest in the program. 
My examination will be directed towards the development of the basic criteria for making grants, the scope of the program; and the administrative arrangements associated with the making of grants. 
Voluntary conservation bodies have been invitied to participate in the current examination. 
Pursuant to section 60 of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act 1975 I present the annual report of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
The Department's intake of apprentices was as follows: 
1974-75-213; 1975-76-150; 1976-77-121; 1977-78-137; 1978-79-125. 
Those who satisfactorily completed their apprenticeships and who opted to remain with the Department have been retained in employment; however apprentices are not guaranteed employment on completion of their apprenticeship. 
Statistics are not available prior to 1976-77. Figures for the last 3 years are as follows: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
A number of positions have been allocated in my Depanment specifically for activities devoted to some aspect of the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and for the products, services and activities derived from its existence. It is estimated in a full year the salaries and other administrative expenses would represent 0.86 per cent of the costs of the administration of the Depanment. 
Activities related to uranium matters have been undertaken by a number of officers of my Depanment from time to time as pan of their normal duties. It is not practicable to provide a satisfactory estimate of the costs of these activities. 
It is estimated that in 1979-80 the costs described above will represent 0.80 per cent of the costs of administration of my Department. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The proposed establishment and operation of an aluminium smelter by Aluminium Pechiney Australia Pty Ltd, is being examined in accordance with the Administrative Procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. Other smelter proposals in the Hunter Valley have not yet been formally referred to my Department for action under the Environment Protection Administrative 
Procedures. I expect that any environmental assessment carried out of these proposals would be in co-operation with the New South Wales State environmental authorities. 
Any assessment of proposed smelters in the Hunter Valley of New South Wales under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act will examine all emissions and their possible effects on the surrounding vegetation and communities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detailed information sought was not readily available in my Department. As providing an answer strictly as asked would have involved considerable effort on the part of public housing authorities of the States and Territories, it has been prepared on the basis of financial years instead of months as follows: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1)1 have seen the report in the  Northern Territory News  to which the honourable member refers. It concerns allegations relating to two situations arising out of past activities of Queensland Mines Limited in the Nabarlek area which could have led to radiation exposure of Aboriginal people. The allegations were made by a field officer of the Northern Land Council to the Manager of the Jabiru Laboratory of the Office of the Supervising Scientist. The Supervising Scientist passed these allegations to the appropriate Northern Territory Supervising Authorities, the Departments of Mines and Energy and of Health, for investigation. 
The first allegation was that  Mr Solomon  Nayilibitj, a local Aboriginal who is an employee of Queensland Mines, and his family and other Aboriginals had some years ago lived for approximately 6 months in a core shed containing uranium bearing core samples.  Mr Nayilibitj  was alleged to be worried about possible radiation effects and to have requested Queensland Mines Limited to carry out medical checks. 
The second allegation was that radioactive ore samples were scattered about an old Queensland Mines Limited exploration camp site, some 9 kilometres from the present Nabarlek lease, an area in the vicinity of which Aboriginals hunt 
I am advised by the Supervising Scientist, on the basis of information supplied by the Northern Territory authorities and Queensland Mines Limited, as follows. 
Some three or four years ago when the Queensland Mines Limited site was on a care and maintenance basis, local Aboriginal people camped for a few months about an old drillers galvanised iron shed near the Nabarlek ore body. In the shed were a number of plastic bags containing smaller calico bags of percussion drill hole cuttings. Some of this bagged material contained uranium ore. 
It is understood that the Aboriginals did not spend much time in the shed but lived and slept outside under the verandah 2 to 3 metres from the bags. I am informed that the camp was probably occupied for no longer than 6 months. The Aboriginals were asked to leave by a Mines Depanment inspector in June 1976 and the company subsequently removed the shed and buried the cuttings nearby. 
Queensland Mines Limited have no details of the discarded drill cuttings nor of the uranium content of the samples. However, the buried samples were located and a radiometric survey was carried out by Queensland Mines Limited and the Northern Territory Depanment of Mines and Energy in the presence of representatives of the Office of the Supervising Scientist on 21 September 1979. The average radiation exposure rate at about 1 metre from the uncovered samples was three to four times that due to local background radiation (0. 1 millirem per hour compared with a background rate of 0.03 to .04 millirem per hour in the vicinity). 
All the material has now been removed and will be disposed of in the pit with other waste. 
It is not possible to calculate the radiation exposure that may have been received by the Aboriginals without knowing the radiation field around the cuttings in the shed and the time spent in their vicinity. The exposure rate where the Aboriginals would have spent most of their time would have been much less than the 0. 1 millirem per hour measured at 1 metre from the specimens and it is unlikely that exposures much above background would have been experienced. Clearly any accumulated exposure would have been less than the annual dose limit of 500 millirem per year laid down in the Australian Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores for members of the public living in the vicinity of uranium mines. 
A medical examination would not reveal effects of radiation at these exposures. I am informed that Queensland Mines Limited are not aware that  Mr Nayilibitj  has expressed concern about radiation exposure, nor that he has ever requested a medical examination. He has never been denied one by Queensland Mines Limited, and on 20 September 1 979,  Mr Nayilibitj  chose not to accept a Queensland Mines Limited offer of a medical examination. I am also informed that Queensland Mines Limited is prepared to arrange, upon request, for medicals for  Mr Nayilibitj,  his family or any other member of the Nabarlek Aboriginal community who is concerned about radiation and at no cost to the Aboriginals. 
The second allegation was investigated by the Northern Territory Depanment of Mines, Queensland Mines Limited and staff of the Office of the Supervising Scientist together with representatives of the NLC and the local Aboriginals. The location of the radioactive samples was the original Queensland Mines Limited exploration camp site some 9 kilometres south-east of Nabarlek, and outside the present Queensland Mines Limited mining lease. This camp was abandoned late in 1970. Queensland Mines Limited has not been permitted access to this locality since 1973 when exploration in the area ceased. 
The investigation revealed two sources of radiation at the site giving exposure rates above background. One source was about 80 bags of mildly radioactive powdered drill samples located in a small cave close to the old camp. The other was a number of uranium ore specimens found on the ground in two spots within the camp area. General radiation exposure rates within the cave, about 1 metre from the piles of bags, were 0.1 millirem per hour (three to four times local background). Dose rates on the surface of individual bags, some of which had broken open, ranged between 0.0S and 0.2 millirem per hour with a maximum of 1 millirem per hour. 
The ore samples were apparently hand specimens of Nabarlek ore. There were 9 rocks in all weighing one or two kilograms each with surface dose rates ranging between 10 and 60 millirem per hour. Dose rates at 1 metre were 1 to 2 millirem per hour. Prolonged handling of such rocks or living close by them for long periods could lead to unacceptably high radiation exposures and the possible manifestation of medical effects. 
The state of the bagged samples and the rock specimens indicated that they had been undisturbed for some years. The camp site could have been visited by the odd hunting party during the dry season but is inaccessible during the wet. The general area shows no signs of recent habitation. It thus appears unlikely that anyone has received excessive doses of radiation. 
All bags and rock specimens and any residual contamination were removed by Queensland Mines Limited in the presence of officers of the Department of Mines and Energy and a representative of the Supervising Scientist. Radiometric surveys have indicated that with the exception of one small patch ( 1 metre x 4 metres) radiation levels in the area now approximate normal background. 
An inspection and survey of the area on 20 September 1979 by Northern Territory Department of Mines and Energy officers accompanied by representatives of the Supervising Scientist and Queensland Mines Limited,  Mr Solomon  Nayilibitj and  Mr Frank  Nalowed, another traditional owner, confirmed that the radioactive material had been removed. 
) Radiological health matters related to uranium mining in the Northern Teritory arc subject to the provisions of the Mines (Radiation Protection) Regulations 1978, which are jointly administered by the Director of Mines and the Chief Medical Officer of the Northern Territory. These regulations effectively enact the Australian Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores published by the Australian Department of Health in 1975. 
All uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region are now subject to a large body of applicable laws and agreements relating to control of environmental and public health impact. The law is administered largely by Supervising Authorities of the Northern Territory with the Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Region exercising a co-ordinating and supervising role. 
The legislation, agreements and administrative arrangements that have been established by the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory Governments are described in some detail in the first Annual Report 1978-79 of the Supervising Scientist which was tabled in this House on 15 November 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information collected in the 1976 Census on the number of people residing in caravans on the night of the  Census is  classified into two groups: 
persons occupying private mobile dwellings. These are defined as mobile dwellings (including caravans) standing on their own block of land and not occupied by members of the same household resident in an adjacent dwelling. 
persons occupying a caravan in a caravan park, on either a permanent or temporary basis. 
The age distribution of people resident in private mobile dwellings or caravans in each State or Territory at the time of the 1 976 Census is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No information is available on the overall average increase in 1978-79 for the Sydney metropolitan area in prices of ' an average three bedroom house '. However, one set of information on prices is contained in a report by the New South Wales Valuer-General's Department This contains valuers' conclusions on the market (as distinct from actual sale prices) for 'average 3-bedroom cottages' in a selection of suburbs. Of the 33 Sydney suburbs surveyed, price increases ranged between 6 per cent and 35 per cent between June 1978 and June 1979; increases exceeded 25 percent for only two suburbs. 
In several of the outer suburbs surveyed, which are representative of the areas where many first-home buyers acquire houses, increases in prices were considerably lower. 
Analysis of Home Savings Grant approvals data indicates that the average price of dwellings purchased by first home buyers in Sydney increased by 12.3 per cent between 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
Although the Valuer-General's data cover both new and previously occupied cottages, it is likely that in most of the suburbs surveyed few, if any, of the prices covered would relate to new houses. Data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics indicate that in the twelve months to September 1979, new house prices in Sydney rose by 7.9 per cent, compared to the overall increase in the CPI for Sydney of 10.0 per cent 
As is evident from ( I ), sharp price increases have only been recorded in a few established suburbs of Sydney suburbs where the stock of houses is fixed suburbs which are in demand because of their location close to the central business district and/or their good access to public transport. 
Other factors which may have affected house prices in Sydney would include: an element of 'catching up' following several years of relatively modest increases in prices a marked reduction in completions of flats and home units from 1974 onwards, especially in established suburbs, due in large part to local government restrictions. 
In most other capital cities, the average prices of land and dwellings remained relatively stable in 1978-79. The comparatively rapid increases in values of houses and land indicated" for many suburbs of Sydney, appear to reflect characteristics peculiar to the Sydney market. 
The increases in dwelling prices in 1978-79 reflect a strengthening of demand for housing in Sydney and shifts in the locational preferences of homebuyers. The price increases may be understood as pan of the clearing process in the housing market. 
Pan of the overall increase in prices may have been due to a small degree of 'underbuilding' in the mid- 1970 's, relative to the trend of underlying demand for housing. The recent strong improvement in new dwelling construction in Sydney indicates that this situation is being rectified by the market. 
No. While the information required to make a detailed assessment is not available, a general assessment is that there is no overall housing shortage. This is not to say that particular shortages do not exist relative to demand in some suburbs, or that particular groups are not facing some difficulty in finding suitable housing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information for the period 1970-71 to 1978-79 is presented in the table below. Data for the period1 July 1979 to 1 8 October 1 979, and for Darwin are not available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) Official statistics on the total number of housing transactions are not available. In recent years some States have commenced the collection of information on property transactions from transfers of land titles records. This information is not collected in all States and is available only for capital cities in a number of other States. 
A commonly used alternative measure is provided by official statistics on the number of housing loan approvals to individuals. A comparison of this series with data on housing transactions in States where information is available indicates that housing finance approvals account for, on average, about 90 per cent of housing transactions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
I take your question to refer to devices containing radioactive sources. 
In the States the use of such radioactive devices is regulated through the relevant Radiation or Radioactive Substances Legislation. Procedures for the use of such devices have not been discussed in the consultative bodies established by the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory in relation to the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Act 1978 for which I am responsible and which provides for the development in consultation with the States of codes of practice relating to the health, safety and protection of the environment in the course of nuclear activities. 
See(l) above. 
See (1) above. 
(a) I understand that a comprehensive radiation ordinance is being prepared for the Australian Capital Territory as a matter of priority. 
Northern Territory Radiation (Safety Control) Ordinance 1978. 
5 ) With respect to 4 ( b ) as set out in the Ordinance. 
Energy Use in Buildings  (Question No. 5001) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is undertaking investigations into the application and economics of solar power building cooling systems and is also assisting the Standards Association of Australia (SAA) with evaluation and test methods for solar hot water heaters. 
In addition, the Australian Housing Research Council is investigating thermal efficiency and user characteristics of dwellings designed for low energy usage. 
Within my portfolio, funds are not specifically appropriated for research into means of improving the efficiency of energy use in buildings. However, sums for those purposes (a) spent in 1978-79 and (b) to be expended in 1979-80 by my Department and by bodies within my portfolio are as follows: 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The construction and operation of power stations, including the disposal of associated wastes, are matters which are the responsibility of the respective State Governments. My Department has not had referred to it the question of the disposal of waste salt from a proposed power station in the Newcastle area and no environmental assessment has been undertaken or proposed. (2)See(l). 
Aboriginal Affairs: Negotiations with States  (Question No. 5176) 
