1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIVA (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man. animals or plants: 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable senators urge upon the 
Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring thai it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Government is aware of the deterioration of marketing ethics and practices which have necessitated the establishment of consumer protection bodies by State governments. Will the Government agree that there is public doubt about the effectiveness of these organisations and that this  doubt has been increased by the recent resignation of the New South Wales Director of Consumer Affairs. In these circumstances will the Government consider inviting to Australia the eminent consumer protection expert in the United States of America,  Mr Ralph  Nader, to advise the Parliament on how best to protect consumers from improper actions by an increasing number of manufacturers and some distributors? 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I know that he has had a distinguished career in local government. Does the Government recognise the vital role that local government plays in the planning of local communities, particularly in urban areas? Is the Government aware that the responsibility for planning is largely the prerogative of municipal and shire councils? Recognising that the provision of airports, sea ports and other Commonwealth installations is an important national requirement, will the Government consider the establishment of co-ordinating bodies or at least consultative bodies embracing Commonwealth, State and local authorities so that the total needs of the community, including preservation of the local environment, are given every consideration? 

 Senator Gietzelt and I, and a lot of other honourable senators, have served a very good apprenticeship in local government. I think the basic thing to remember is that in Australia there is a 3-tier structure of government. That comprises the national Parliament, the State governments, which have sovereign power, and local government. Access to the national Parliament for the third tier, which is local government, fundamentally is through the State governments. The local government authorities function through a series of Acts of Parliament passed by the States. All States have a Minister with a portfolio associated with local government; he might have other portfolios as well. For that reason it would be very dangerous if an attempt were made to by-pass the source of local government power - that is, the State legislatures. That is not to say that in certain circumstances there should not be some loosely drawn 

 Questions organisation, if the States concur, in which the voice of local government on matters of particular concern could be raised. The matter would need to have an ingredient of a national nature also. 
The danger is - and this is where we must be very careful - that the local government might express a view contrary to the view of the State. Local government, under the charter given under the Local Government Act, should not bypass the source of its authority, which is a State parliament. I would like to look at the question again. As I understand it, the honourable senator is suggesting that there should be set up some kind of loose consultative arrangement which would give local government access to express a view more firmly than it can do through the State authorities. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate remember that during the 1970 Senate election campaign, 10 months ago, the then Prime Minister promised to establish child care centres for working mothers and suggested that between 500 and 750 centres were contemplated? Is the Leader of the Government aware that the then Prime Minister said that the Government would probably meet the full cost of these centres, which would be operated by State, municipal and voluntary agencies? Does the Government consider that child care centres are still necessary or has it repudiated the election promise? Will the Government re-examine the critical problem of child care centres with a view to subsidising fully their construction? 
This Government has a long history of not repudiating its promises. Be that as it may, I would need to have some research done into the broader implications of the question posed by the honourable senator. I will have this done and I will inform him in due course. 
I wish to follow up a question directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is he aware that there is grave concern in many areas around the city of Sydney about the intention of the Department of Civil Aviation to construct a second major airport? Could he advise the Senate of when the Government intends to announce the area selected for such airport and what steps the Commonwealth will take to ensure that land in close proximity will be zoned so as to avoid the problems of aircraft noise which are so paramount in the region of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is he aware that yesterday
              the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp, 
              publicly endorsed smoking as a dangerous health hazard? Did he not also link tobacco
              with other dangerous addictive drugs which are causing damage in Western society? As
              this is the first time a State or Federal Minister has condemned smoking in such
              unequivocal terms, will the Minister for Health urgently consult his Cabinet
              colleagues about imposing a ban on the television advertising of a product which is
              now recognised even by a Liberal Minister as a great health hazard? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONit is not quite accurate
            to say that this is the first occasion on which a Minister has made a fairly positive
            statement in relation to the possibility of smoking being a health hazard. In 1965 the
            then Minister for Health,  Mr Swartz,  made a
            statement outlining the medical evidence linking smoking and lung cancer. He said at the
            time that all responsible public health authorities in Australia were agreed that there
            was a proven relationship between cigarette smoking and lung cancer and that the problem
            was how a reduction in the incidence of the disease could be achieved without resorting
            to autocratic methods. I have quoted almost exactly what the Minister said as far back
            as 1965. Our colleague in the Senate, <inline font-weight="bold">Senator
              Greenwood,</inline> who was my predecessor as Minister for Health, issued a Press
            release in May of this year which stated that the Government regarded smoking as .a
            major public health problem, that strong evidence supported this view but the
            Government's aim was towards educating the public on smoking rather than advocating
            a complete banning of cigarette advertising. As I read the Press report this morning the
            Minister for Customs and Excise in the other place, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
              Chipp,</inline> was very careful to express a personal view m reply to a question
            yesterday. 
Yes. The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended
            that health education is probably the most effective way of attacking the smoking
            problem; warning labels should be included on cigarette packs, tar and nicotine content
            should be indicated and there should be restriction of advertising of cigarettes. The
            Council has also recommended that health education programmes in schools on the hazards
            associated with smoking should be extended. I answered a question here the week before
            last in direct relation to this question of advertising on television. While I do not
            want to overoccupy the rostrum in replying to questions, it is such an important matter
            that I would like to go on to say that the Commonwealth has responsibilities for health
            education programmes in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and
            these have been intensified in the A.C.T. following the formation of a separate health
            education section in the A.C.T. health services. 
As far as labelling of cigarette packs with a warning is concerned, the Commonwealth
            has already indicated that when all States have introduced legislation in this regard
            the Commonwealth will enact complementary legislation in the A.C.T. and the Northern
            Territory. I think all honourable senators would agree that it would be absurd if we had
            to cross the border because of some enactment in relation to this matter. It is a
            complex matter. I repeat a promise that I made last week, that I will use my best
            endeavours to get a uniform decision on this matter with the States. My Department has
            negotiated revision of the voluntary code of cigarette advertising on television, and
            the new code is to come into effect on 1st October this year. Briefly, it will extend
            the restrictions to radio; it will restrict advertising times so that no advertisements
            are shown in proximity to programmes for children or when young people are likely to be
            a large part of the audience; it will limit the style and type of advertisements; and in
            particular no advertisements will be televised between 4 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. from Monday
            to Saturday or before 7.30 p.m. on Sunday. Finally, the Commonwealth will continue to
            keep all aspects, including the voluntary code, under close review. 
 Mr Deputy President,  1 thank the electors of
              New South Wales for the confidence they have reposed in me. I thank my family and
              members of my Party for the support that they have given me over the years. Also, I
              thank members of this chamber for the encouragement they have given me in the few
              weeks in which I have been a senator. However, as previous speakers have indicated,
              this is Budget time and therefore I want to say a few words about the Budget. 
In my view this Budget represents yet another major error of policy by the
            Government which is moving from mistake to mistake towards its early dissolution. Not
            only does this forlorn document chart the downward trend of this Government - it marks
            only too clearly the unfortunate future facing most Australians as a result of incorrect
            policies. The Australian Labor Party is not alone in condemning this Budget. It has been
            condemned by most editorial writers in the land - by spokesmen from employer, employee,
            consumer, rural, pensioner, ex-service and many other community groups. Only the
            Government parties are the reluctant supporters of this totally inadequate, unplanned,
            inept and sectional Budget. The Budget is not a routine affair. It should be the
            blueprint for the social and economic well-being of the nation. It should determine the
            guidelines for the ensuing year, for national development and set the pace for the
            sovereign States, for semi and local government agencies. 
The Budget will not halt inflation. It will exacerbate the position. Its failure to
            provide adequate funds for the other arms of government has already forced State
            governments to increase charges and raise new taxes and costs generally. It worsens
            living standards for the average person. It fails to provide funds for the myriad of
            community needs. The Budget perpetuates the regressive policies of the Government. For
            22 weary years the Government has deliberately encouraged expansion of the private
            sector while restricting expenditure in the public sector - the area where the needs
            'of the people have to be satisfied by the States, local and semi-government bodies.
            The Government continues to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a so-called defence
            policy basing such expenditure on outdated policies of fear and a misguided
            understanding of the evolutionary developments taking place in Asia. 
The Budget will not help the one million people who are in and around the poverty
            belt in Australia. Economists estimate that Australia will gain $3,500m in exports from
            the new mineral fields within the next 10 years. How will this mineral bonanza help
            pensioners, low income groups or those on superannuation or fixed incomes? The Budget
            fails because it does not re-direct this great new wealth of our country to the areas
            where personal and community needs are greatest. <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
              Justice</inline> Nimmo and Professor Downing of Melbourne University have estimated
            that 8 per cent of our people are financially insecure. Justice Nimmo went further and
            said there were 250,000 low income families in a self-perpetuating poverty belt. The
            gross inequalities in taxation not only persist, but grow worse. The Government refuses
            to levy a capital gain tax - a tax which would enable pensions and child endowment rates
            . to be substantially increased. 
The promises made by  Mr Gorton  in the 1969
            federal election for alleviating taxes on low and middle income groups have faded like
            tired memories. The parsimonious and blatantly partisan attitude of the Commonwealth to
            the States has already made a mockery of our medical and hospital scheme. Only in one
            State now - and there at the expense of other public needs - is free hospitalisation
            with us. lt is one of the casualties of the postwar years, i suggest that Government
            members and Ministers in particular converse with officials from welfare organisations
            like the Smith Family and the Red Cross and other charities. They would be amazed to see
            the unhappiness, the hopelessness, the loneliness and the hardships facing so many of
            our population - the absolute poverty that exists under all the superficial glitter of
            our society. They would find little to be proud of. 
On the other hand the newspapers' financial columns tell another story - the
            massive increase in profits by the credit corporations, BHP and countless other major
            companies - the takeovers, the speculation on the stock exchange. As it has been for 20
            years, it is a case of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. Foreign
            companies take over our indigenous industries while the government, like 
Nelson, turns a blind eye to the multimillion dollar corporations
            enriching themselves on our vital natural resources. The Budget provides no relief to
            the serious problems of land prices which rise faster than any young couple can save.
            Even in the perimeter areas of Sydney - the new developing areas - land prices have
            doubled in the past 4 years. 
The Australian people are weary of the struggle against rampant inflation. They are
            becoming aware of the tremendous social implication and consequences of the inflationary
            hurricane which is ripping away the savings of thrifty people, destroying family life
            and imposing hardships on all those who use their mental or physical skills to create
            the wealth of this country. It has been said - some reference was made to this by a
            previous speaker and I understand the words are those of Abraham Lincoln - 'A
            government should do only those things as a government which the people cannot do as
            well for themselves'. It was these sentiments that gave impetus to the establishment
            of parliamentary democracy. Can we be confident that these objectives are being
            followed? Governments all over the world are setting themselves up above the people,
            abrogating the right to interpret what is best for the public interest. 
In many cases those in authority govern either by arrogance of power or by default.
            There are growing numbers of people in this country who believe this twin evil exists
            here. 1 believe there cannot be genuine democracy as long as parliament and the public
            are unable to obtain genuine, detailed and reliable information concerning every aspect
            of our national life. This information is not freely available. While governments rule
            instead of parliament, while a bureaucracy operates in place of an informed public
            opinion, there will be even more alienation of the people from the parliamentary
            processes. I think the case of  Dr Daniel  Ellsberg in
            the United States underlines the point that I wish to make. He was an established man; a
            hawk; an advocate of US involvement in Vietnam. Yet he like many other US government
            officials after a proper analysis of the Vietnam war, found that his government was not
            telling the American people the real facts of that war. It was a classic example of the
            result of a government not telling the real, story, of the people being not properly
            informed, of the government usurping for itself the right to interpret the public
            interest. Similarly, in our country, the truth is that neither Parliament nor the
            Australian people have been told the truth about the problems facing our nation. In many
            ways the art of politics has become the art of deception. People unfortunately are
            becoming disillusioned with the Parliamentary processes. More and more informed people,
            more and more young people are questioning the value of parliament. 
Let me say that I am a believer in the democratic processes - action by the
            parliament - action by the people - but I doubt the efficacy of the sham democracy - the
            superficial democracy that is claimed to be the foundation stone of our society.
            Democracy demands that a substantial proportion of the electors shall be informed,
            educated and actively involved in matters of public importance. They should be imbued
            with a sense of active and significant participation in the political life of the
            country. However, it is encouraging to see some growth in citizen involvement. In the
            field of conservation, preservation, pollution, environment, war and peace, and many
            other new social issues, growing numbers of people are not only concerned but also
            involved. Yet when people become concerned and involved on matters of conscience, the
            conservatives in our community, whether in government or in the media, cry out in the
            name of law and order. To hear them talk, involvement almost equals anarchy. They ignore
            the fact that change and conflict are as much an integral feature of human society as
            are stability and order. 
Today we can no longer claim that the predominant factor in our society should be
            stability and order. The world is changing so rapidly that yesterday's values do not
            necessarily apply today. For example, prewar the slogan was 'populate or
            perish'. Today it has changed to 'populate AND perish'. Demographers, social
            planners, men of learning generally never cease to warn us of the acceleration of change
            and the social consequences. Our scientists are constantly in the forefront of these
            warnings. One scientist went so far as to say that civilisation, fearful of effects of
            the nuclear bomb, would never use that weapon. He was more afraid of the grave
            deterioration in our environment, pollution and the destruction of resources. The
            sciences to which most of us looked to help mankind, might well bring destruction in
            their wake if people, and governments in particular, do not heed the effects of
            unrestricted, unplanned development and production. 
Many people today are overwhelmed by change. This thrust for change is having
            personal, psychological and sociological consequences. Unless the growth rate of change
            is controlled, society runs the risk of a nervous breakdown. The avalanche must be
            stopped or at least curbed. Planning is becoming almost as important as the air we
            breathe. Firstly we must learn to safeguard our human resources. This leads to the
            urgent need to plan , to conserve our national resources. Then there is the need to
            examine our spiritual and social values. 
As I see it, we live in times when all progress is measured in terms of the gross
            national product. Our GNP is our new god. We worship at its shrine. Development and
            production is more important than people. Everything has to be bigger and better than
            before. Every country aims at greater production, greater development, greater
            profitability - and in so many cases human values are forgotten. We have to recognise
            that the world is in the midst of its second major ecological upheaval. The whole of
            humanity, in one way or another, is switching from an agrarian to a highly urbanised
            society. This revolutionary change is taking place right before our eyes. Man no longer
            relies on the natural landscape to exist as he did for thousands of years. Now he
            employs technology to meet his needs. We have become an interdependent world community
            as a result of this evolution. However, our minds and our institutions are not yet
            adjusted to the new situation. Hence the conflict within our society. 
Population densities, in the East and West, are rising rapidly. For instance, in
            Manhattan 77,000 people occupy one square mile of territory. While we in Australia lag
            behind this volume, high density living is well on the way in many of our capital
            cities. 
The Budget, while making large sums of money available for subsidies to rural and
            secondary industries- and the wool subsidy seems certain to reach SI 80m - earmarks not
            one cent to study, control, appease or improve the urban complex. 
Urbanisation is the new phenomenon. It is radical, different, dramatic and fearful
            in its consequences. Urbanisation is the new ecological process. It determines the
            environment in which the major proportion of our population lives, changes all our
            previous human relationships and highlights the problems of individuals, communities and
            nations. On present trends, using New South Wales as an example, by the year 2000 the
            number of people living outside the major cities will be approximately 10 per cent of
            the population. This is in spite of all the talk and decisions about decentralisation.
            We are faced with the inescapable fact that tremendous city complexes are a permanent
            feature of our society. It is our obligation to ensure that cities therefore become an
            ecological success. To achieve this, however, there needs to be a recognition that
            massive public funds must be directed to build new urban technologies. In addition we
            must recognise that only a different approach to human relationships can solve the new
            technology needed to integrate man in the new densities within our cities. 
This requires a better educated, a less prejudiced, a less inhibited collective
            human mind to create the new technologies and institutions adequate to meet our
            population needs. In Sydney there are some 67 government agencies administering the
            affairs of State within that city. Every time a new problem develops - pollution, to
            give one example - a new government agency is set up to deal with it. This highlights
            the need for us to give greater consideration to what is taking place within our
            community. 
In our country there are scientists, planners and other public figures who are
            asking the inarticulate, unorganised and uninformed mass to be concerned. Professor
            Maning Clark said: 
If Australia ... is to survive, we must And a solution to the problems of how to
              retain our independence without assistance from the U.K. or the U.S.A. 
The eminent poet, Judith Wright, commented in the same weekly Press: 
We have very little time left to rescue this planet from the disastrous effects of
              what we call progress - trying to grab more dollars and material goods regardless of
              who suffers in the future. 
She also said: 
The major problem of leadership is to get people to accept that there is a point
              at which we must stop this mad scramble. Our natural resources are vanishing so fast
              we will not have any petroleum left in 100 years. We must put a limit on population
              and the use of resources. The big industries are inventing new wants, publicising them
              and making people think they need their products. 
Sydney's Professor Charles Birch said some time ago: 
It is time that economists thought less about growth and development and much more
              about the quality of life on earth. 
Emeritus Professor  Sir Mark 
            Oliphant pessimistically states that he cannot see 'the leaders necessary to develop
            the full sane, and ecological potential of Australia .. . at present.' Aboriginal
            rights leader, Faith Bandler, put her finger on the problem when she said: 
Our Governments are still in the mad rush for economic growth regardless of its
              destruction of the environment and its effect on human welfare. 
Our society is following the world wide pattern of western civilisation. Inflation,
            profiteering, the growth of monopoly, mergers foreign takeover of many Australian
            industries, all combine to worsen the living standards of the average Australian. As our
            rural income falls, people flock to the cities. Land prices skyrocket still further,
            accommodation is priced beyond the reach of young people and family life is seriously
            undermined. 
What is taking place under our very eyes is the silent demise of the family unit.
            Despite the great mineral wealth and the tremendous postwar boom in our exports, those
            that actually produce the wealth are substantially worse off. I say that after having
            regard to what has been said in previous debates in this chamber. A worker can no longer
            live on a single income. He must have 2 jobs, or be content to live on the poverty line.
            Hundreds of thousands solve their immediate economic problem by encouraging their wives
            to continue working. This in its turn contributes to pressures and tensions not
            experienced by previous generations. Yet the Liberal Government, impervious to what is
            taking place, carries on without a thought or a care. 
I believe it is our responsibility to study overseas countries' experience so
            that we may learn from their tragedies. The postwar years have seen the acceleration of
            progress. Everywhere man is changing the environment. Until recent times his influence
            on the environment was not serious. Today, because he is now so numerous and
            technologically adept he not only endangers the environment but also he imperils
            civilisation. It is true that it is in the United States that the problem is most
            serious. There poverty, racism, congestion, war, crime and a rising incidence of dissent
            are shaking the very foundations of that society. It would be premature to suggest that
            the same perils now confront us in Australia. However, certain trends that should
            concern all governments are already evident in this country. I refer to the population
            decline in the rural areas, the growing congestion in the cities and the failure of
            governments to recognise the sociological problems accruing at a rapid rate as a result
            of urbanisation. Crises exist - whether or not this Government is prepared to recognise
            them - in education generally, housing, hospitals, sewerage, social welfare,
            accommodation, human relations and the decline in value of money. 
In the few minutes left at my disposal 1 shall deal specifically with the
            responsibilities of local government in respect of the environment. The people of
            Australia are probably unaware that the national government accepts little
            responsibility for environment. To an extent this is also true of a State government; it
            delegates the responsibility to local government. Local government is perfectly able to
            handle environmental matters providing it is given the financial resources. I am
            encouraged to hear  Senator Lawrie  and other
            honourable senators speak about the problems of local government. I propose to
            specialise in these matters in this chamber. The Budget fails to provide any sort of
            meaningful help to local government to carry out its commitments. Right throughout
            Australia as, indeed, in all modern societies, the role of local government is
            increasing. Few aspects of our environment, our culture, our welfare, our way of life
            can be adequately tackled without involving local government. Yet the Federal Government
            continues to refuse to give local govern ment adequate help either in the form of grants
            or sufficient loan moneys. Our society cannot properly function until the Federal
            Government recognises that it has to make grants to local authorities and to
            semi-government agencies. 
For 20 years the Federal Government has followed a deliberate policy of encouraging
            private sector expansion and restricting the public sector. The States and local and
            semi-government agencies have been affected by this policy. People have suffered as a
            result of the policy. In a Press release made on 29th April 1971 Warden L. J. Mooney,
            who is the President of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, said: 
The people of Australia, whether city or country folk, want a better way of life
              and a better environment. They are looking to their local councils. But so far,
              councils have not been financially equipped to grapple with all that is required of
              them. 
Asking the Federal Government for financial recognition and help
            Warden Mooney went on to state: 
A new financial deal will not just be an answer to Councils' complaints; it
              should be a national policy to provide Australians everywhere with acceptable
              community standards. 
I know it will be argued that local and semi-government agencies are
            the responsibility of the States. But even <inline font-weight="bold">Sir
              Robert</inline> Menzies, way back in 1949, said that the time had arrived for a
            conference between the 3 arms of government in Australia so that a better financial
            arrangement could be organised. Twenty-two years later local government is still
            pressing for substantial Federal assistance to ease the growing rate burden that has
            little or no regard to the ability of the property owner to pay rates. General hardship
            exists in many of the lower income areas around our major cities as the rate burden
            increases and as the local councils grapple with the task of attempting to provide local
            amenities. Early this year Ministers for Local Government from all States, meeting in
            Hobart, decided: 
This Conference of Ministers of Local Government in all States recognises the
              serious financial position of local government at present because: 
the cost of local government service is increasing rapidly; 
the sources of revenue available to local government authorities are limited -
                
I shall digress for a moment. I know how difficult, how impossible in
            fact, it is for many of our country councils to carry on their services at this time- 
many rural areas are in a critical position and no increases in rates are likely
                or practicable in the foreseeable future. 
that as local government is the responsibility of State Governments, the annual
                reimbursement grants of income tax from the Commonwealth to the States should
                include an element of contribution to local government finances. 
Once again this Government's Budget fails to recognise the facts
            of life. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as late as
            a few weeks ago declined to meet a deputation from the Australian Council of Local
            Government Associations. He repeats the policy of the Liberal Party and the Australian
            Country Party over many years. He ignores the advice of such journals as the Sydney
            Morning Herald' which in its editorial on 11th June 1970 - that is over a year ago -
            wrote: 
The Federal Treasurer is making a serious mistake in casting aside the financial
              problems of local government. 
The Government gets on its high horse. It defends its policies. It
            refuses to recognise its responsibilities. It makes the local councils carry the burden.
            It makes the low income groups pay for their local amenities and it perpetuates the
            private affluence and public squalor which has characterised its 22 years of office. I
            join with my Party in opposing the Budget. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the latest gallup poll which shows that 56 per cent of Australians are in favour of recognition of Peking as the legitimate government of China? Did the figure rise from 39 per cent in March, before the Australian Labour Party visit to Peking, to the present 56 per cent as indicated in the poll taken in August? Will the Government accept this poll as evidence of the desire of a majority of Australians for the Government formally to recognise Peking's legitimacy as the Government of China? 
The honourable senator asked a question which impinged upon policy. As he is a new senator, I think it would be well to remind him that questions relating  to  policy are out of order. In late September there is to be a plenary session of the United Nations General Assembly and I think it will run until the end of the year. In all the circumstances, it would be inappropriate and improper, for me to make any comment. The question clearly relates to a. matter of policy. I did not see the actual gallup poll figures in their particularity but, as I was informed, the figures given by the honourable senators are something of the order of those that appeared in the Press. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Is he aware of a posthumously published article by Professor John Read, who was Professor of Medicine at the University of Sydney, in which he stated that Australia cannot afford to allow doctors to continue setting their own charges on a fee for service basis? I ask the Minister whether Professor Read stated: 
It would not be too much to describe the present situation as politically and economically untenable. 
Did Professor Read say that it was possible for a doctor of no more than average surgical skill but of sufficient reputation to earn between $500 and $1,000 in a single day? In view of this informed attack from within the medical profession, will the Government urgently review the present inadequate and piecemeal national health scheme which is rapidly putting medical services outside the financial reach of many- Australians? 
The Professor was expressing a point of view in the article to which the honourable senator referred and this he was entitled to do. I am quite certain there would be an overwhelming group in the medical profession who would not agree either with his statistics relating to earning capacity or with the point he purports to make on abandoning the voluntary scheme we have today and imposing a nationalised medical scheme. Heaven help us if we ever get that. (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
by leave- The matter of providing airport facilities in the city of Sydney has been causing a great deal of concern to the residents in that metropolis. It is an activity carried out by the Commonwealth that affects very materially the environment of the people who live under the flight paths and in the vicinity of Mascot and any airport to be constructed in the future. 1 think the people of Sydney would agree with me that the statement of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has arrived too late to avoid many of the difficulties that have arisen in respect of international airports overseas. In point of fact, the plans contained in the statement will perpetuate a number of the difficulties with which the residents around Mascot have had to contend for a considerable number of years. The statement indicates very little vision or forward planning by the Department of Civil Aviation. It must have become apparent many years ago that the volume of aircraft movements would necessitate some extensions at the principal airport at Mascot as well as the provision of additional airports around the city of Sydney. 1 think that what has taken place can be described as a matter of national planning by stealth. We have seen a piecemeal type of development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Even the statement presented to the Senate today indicates that undoubtedly there will be a continuation of development in that area as well as the provision of another airport somewhere else. The statement shows that very little vision has been displayed and that very few steps will be taken to protect the people of Sydney from the new dimension of aircraft noise and pollution which today is exciting a great deal of concern in all sections of the community. As the Minister indicated in reply to several previous questions, the people of Duffys Forest, which some say is a more salubrious area than the suburbs of the southern part of Sydney, are just as much up in arms about the suggestion of an airport being placed in their area as are the people in the the St George and Sutherland areas about the suggestion that the airport be enlarged into their areas. The effects of the movement of aircraft in and out of Sydney would be felt around any of the other sites suggested in the report. 
I have read the reports of a number of royal commissions that have dealt with the problems associated with aircraft move; ment and aircraft noise overseas. Such inquiries have been set up in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and several European countries. They all came to the same conclusion, that the only way to avoid aircraft noise, pollution and other effects upon environment is not to build airports near major cities. There is no other way to avoid these problems. In the United Kingdom the national government even offered a local authority certain sums of money for the soundproofing of homes around an airport. Because of the disabilities suffered by residents in the flight path a royal commission was set up. 
Such royal commissions were conducted over a period of years and should be within the knowledge of the Department of Civil Aviation. Certainly they must be within the knowledge of the Minister. Yet these experiences which are vital from the point of view of protecting residents of Sydney seem to be by-passed. The 11 sites named in the report were finally narrowed down to 4. I put to the Minister than the 4 areas nominated for consideration possibly as favourites in the thinking of the Department are right in the middle of the region proposed by the New South Wales Government for the development of major residential areas by the year 2000. The Minister said in bis statement that we have to be prepared to recognise that at least 3 generations of movement of aircraft are associated with our existing and future airports, so that by the year 2000 the period of the 3 generations referred to will have passed. 
Tha  population  r»f  Sydney, accordinrr to the State Planning Authority - and this is accepted as a fact of life by the New South Wales Government - will be about 5i million by the year 2000. The 2 sites named in the Minister's statement are right in the centre of the region envisaged as a major residential complex by the year 2000. From Port Stephens to Wollongong there will be a major residential complex, but within that area another airport is planned by the Department of Civil Aviation. I put to the Senate that from a planning point of view it is probable that even a second airport will not be adequate by the year 2000. Planning authorities have indicated clearly the need to double all the presently existing public facilities within the Sydney region by the year 2000, as I think it is fair to conclude that the Department of Civil Aviation will be involved in even more sites than it has been prepared to nominate. 
I have asked for leave to move that the Senate take note of the statement made by the Minister because I am suggesting that the matter should be debated by the Senate. It is of great consequence to the people who live within the Sydney region. I regard the Minister's reference to the Scullin Government as somewhat shabby. Surely he should not go back 41 years to justify further development in the Mascot region and in looking for another site on the perimeter of Sydney. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Gietzelt,  are you asking for leave to move a motion? 
Yes,  Sir. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 1 feel that the thinking of the Minister and his Department is that we need another major airport virtually on the front steps of the Sydney General Post Office. Such erroneous thinking ignores the experience of almost every other country. It indicates that very little national planning has been done by the Government. I am sure that the local communities to which the Minister referred have not been consulted. For at least another 2 days I am  President  of Sutherland Shire and Wattamolla is within the boundaries of Sutherland Shire. We have not been consulted by the Department of Civil Aviation and I am therefore entitled to draw the conclusion that to date the Commonwealth Government has taken the view that as it has consulted the New South Wales Government, that is sufficient endeavour to take into consideration the views of the local authorities. 
On 26th August last I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  a question and he indicated in his reply that there was no reason why the Commonwealth could not consult local authorities on matters of national or local significance. It is true that he did not commit the Government to that consideration but I felt entitled to conclude that the Government was not adverse to the principle of loose consultation with a local authority, representing as it does a local community. However, that point is made only in passing in the statement. No encouragement is given to the view that the Government will do more than simply consult the New South Wales Government. 
I believe that overall it would be disastrous for the people of Sydney for us to accept as inevitable the further development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The suggestion has been made that by 1975 air traffic in and out of the Mascot area will have doubled and that additional runways and other facilities will have to be duplicated by then. If we are to accept the view put in the Minister's statement today, the selection of a second airport and construction on the time table proposed will not be completed before 1980. I think we can therefore justifiably anticipate that Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport will be subjected not only to the provision of additional facilities for the next 4 or 5 years but will also carry a tremendous amount of additional traffic in its normal day to day activities. 1 wonder why a delay of 24 years has occurred in the making of recommendations by the interdepartmental committee. The matter of aircraft movement has been agitating the minds of many people over the last 5 or 6 years. It was not until action was taken by the people in the Sydney region that the Government set up an interdepartmental committee. Now that the committee has been set up, it is still not prepared to make precise recommendations about where Sydney's second airport should be placed. There may be political reasons for this failure. It seems to me that the environment and the people in the 2 subject sites will be affected. There may be more than 2 subject sites but only 2 have been nominated by the Minister. There will be a great deal of uncertainty in these areas. Certainly there will be a great deal of uproar and reaction to the 2 sites which are finally nominated. 
From the Minister's statement it does not appear that the Government is prepared to exercise any of its power and influence to rezone the land. Surely if we are to consider further development of a major nature in the Mascot area we will have to do something about the zoning of the land. Much of that area is already in the process of being redeveloped. If we are going to do something about an airport at the western or northern perimeter of Sydney, in order to obviate difficulties in the future for residents in the area chosen the matter of zoning of the land is of prime and urgent importance. I believe that the matters of zoning, environment, pollution and congestion are so paramount in the minds of people today that this statement needs to be given further consideration in the Senate. 
 I second the amendment moved by  Senator Poyser  not only because it seeks to condemn the Government for its parsimonious attitude in respect of war compensation but also because it is in line with the decision made in this place today with respect to social service benefits generally. 1 recall that in the early 1950s, when 1 was campaign director for  Mr Whitlam  and he succeeded in gaining entry into the national Parliament, the Returned Services League submitted a 9-point pension plan to all candidates in that election seeking their support for policies for which the RSL is still pressing some 20 years later. Of course it is not just the attitude of the Opposition that we are discussing, as  Senator Maunsell  would have us believe: it is the attitude of the principal ex-servicemen's organisation in Australia, the Returned Services League. We find on this side of the House complete unity of views and attitudes as we seek to condemn the Government for its inadequate repatriation benefits.  Sir Arthur  Lee is the National  President  of that organisation, which is probably the largest single organisation in Australia. I think the Senate should be aware of what he had to say on 8th April 1970 when he was referring to representations that his organisation was making 15 or 16 months ago. He said, as we have stated tonight in the debate, that in spite of increases in the past 2 Budgets there had been a general erosion of compensation payments for incapacitated servicemen for the past 20 years. I think it would be agreed that  Sir Arthur  Lee could not be described as a radical, but he has seen fit to refer to the fact that it is in the period of life of this Government, the last 20 years, that there has been an erosion or a devaluation of the pension entitlements of ex-servicemen and women. 
I think the House should be reminded that in the flush of victory after World War I the community and the Parliament were prone to look at the question of pension entitlements in a very benevolent way. In 1920, for- instance, when the basic wage was £3 lis the war pension was £4, which of course was 9s more than the basic amount most people in that era received in return for their weekly activities. Over the years that have followed the ex-serviceman has in one way or another retained certain parity with the basic wage. But by 1956, when the basic wage was £12 6s the war pension was £9 15s. At that point in history the war pension was 51s under, the basic wage. Whilst I concede that there has been some slight improvement in general pension rates, nevertheless it would now require an increase ot something like 37.40 to bring the war pension rate up to the average basic wage. So I do not think  Senator Maunsell  can substantiate the optimism and enthusiasm that he has displayed in respect of the rates of pension which are applied in one way or another to those entitled to them. 
It is true that the rate for the totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner has been increased in this Budget by $3.50 to $42.50. I put it to the Senate- and I recall what was said in an earlier debate today - that it is very difficult to get a comparative rate. We might relate the pension to the basic wage; we might relate it to average weekly earnings. It is expected that average weekly earnings for 1971-72 will be $95.80. On a relative basis the TPI pension of $42.50 which is provided for in this Budget represents only 44.4 per cent of the rate that was paid a decade ago in 1961-62. I think it is proper to compare the rates and to show that, as  Senator Poyser  has said, there has been a steady erosion in the base pension rate. 
We can relate the repatriation pension to the parliamentary pension. In 1950, for instance, when the parliamentary rate of pay for members of the 2 Houses was $3,000, their pension rate was $1.6 a week. I think a simple arithmetical calculation would show that the pension rate for members of Parliament has gone considerably beyond the $50 a week which it would approximate today if it had risen in proportion to rises in parliamentary salaries. So the legislation certainly has had something to say about the erosion of pension rates for parliamentarians. That cannot be said of pensions payable to exservicemen and women. 
I think we must look at not only the pension rates but also the manner in which the Repatriation Commission carries out its responsibilities. It might be recalled that in 1946, following the establishment of an all-party committee by the Chifley Government, the Government agreed to amend the Repatriation Act to provide that the onus of proof shall rest with the Commission and not with the ex-serviceman or woman. Now, 25 years later, we can show that the Commission is still adopting a dog in the manger attitude in the application of the onus of proof provision. In this respect 
I refer honourable senators to reports of sub-branches of the Returned Services League and articles appearing in the League's journals. Honourable senators and members of the other place are constantly taking up cases on behalf of ex-servicemen and ex-service women to whom the Commission has refused repatriation entitlements. 1 find it difficult to understand the logic of  Senator Maunsell.  I draw his attention to the fifty-fifth annual report of the Executive of the RSL which states that of 81,000 applications received by the tribunals from World War 1 veterans as at 31st December 1970 only 38,000 were allowed and 43,000 were rejected. I think those figures illustrate that the Government cannot claim truly to be benevolent or to have influenced the Repatriation Commission to be more lenient, despite any impartiality it has shown in the appointment of certain representatives. It cannot properly claim that the Repatriation Commission is interpreting the onus of proof provision as was laid down by this Parliament in 1946 and as ex-servicemen believe it should operate. 
Any ex-serviceman from World War I would now be about 75 years of age. One would therefore expect the Government to adopt a much more benevolent attitude to applications for pensions from World War I ex-servicemen. About 236 veterans of the Boer War who are still living have not received full repatriation entitlements for medical treatment and hospitalisation. It is clear that the Government is being parsimonious and short sighted in not agreeing to accept the modest requests of ex-service organisations which have been endorsed by members of the Opposition both here and in the other place. A vast improvement is needed in the attitude adopted to applications for repatriation entitlements lodged by the remaining few ex-servicemen and women of the Boer War and World War I. 
The Budget does not provide for an increase in the 100 per cent pension, although some years ago it was increased from SI 1.50 to SI 2. During a debate in the other place on legislation to increase the prescription rate for pharmaceutical benefits from 50c to Si, the Minister concerned indicated that it was hard to argue against such an increase. The Government has not adopted the same attitude towards repatriation benefits. The Returned Services 
League has requested an increase in the special compensation allowance but this has also been refused in the current Budget. The League also asked for a 50 per cent increase in the funeral grant. Can any honourable senator imagine a funeral today costing $50? The situation is comparable to child endowment paid for the first child. Child endowment for the first child and the funeral grant are about the only 2 social service benefits that have not been raised in the last 22 years. Whilst there has been a slight movement in some pension rates the Government has failed to take into consideration the full effects of inflation. Ex-servicemen of the Boer War, World War I, World War II and subsequent wars are in no way responsible for the inflationary period we arc experiencing. The present rates of pension show very clearly how ex-servicemen are at a complete disadvantage at a time of rapidly increasing inflation. I have already indicated that the pension for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen has dropped to about 44 per cent of average weekly earnings. The 100 per cent general rate pension is equal to only about 12.5 per cent of average weekly earnings, as it was 10 years ago. 
When  Mr Holten,  the Minister for Repatriation, was addressing the RSL last year he pointed out that to meet its repatriation demands would cost the Government an extra $100m. He considered that to be an extortionate claim and beyond the financial resources of the Government. Before  Mr Gorton  was removed from office as Minister for Defence this year he was able to convince the Cabinet to increase defence expenditure by about $120m. It seems he was much more persuasive than the Minister for Repatriation who was able to obtain only an additional $41m to maintain something like parity between pensions and the rising cost of living brought about by the inflationary spiral. At the time when the Minister for Repatriation said that he could not justify a request to Cabinet for an extra $100m for ex-servicemen and ex-service women the income of the Government was rising. According to estimates put before us during the debate on the Budget the Government's income this year will rise by about 9 per cent over last year's income, but the appropriation for the Repatriation Department has been increased by only 7.2 per cent. To meet the requirements of exservicemen as estimated by the RSL would require the Government to provide an additional increase of only 0.8 per cent for repatriation purposes. I therefore do not think it can be fairly argued that the Opposition in moving its proposed amendment has not had regard to its responsibilities and the state of the economy. 
In 1961 average weekly earnings were $47.60. Today they have increased by almost 100 per cent. If the TPI pension was similarly increased it would be $33 a week, whereas in this Budget it is being increased to $42.50. Clearly the Opposition is justified in expecting the support of the Senate for the amendment put forward so ably by  Senator Poyser. Senator Maunsell  referred to prosperity and said that the Government had been generous to exservicemen and ex-servicewomen. According to a paper on productivity delivered at a seminar in Sydney yesterday - and I have no reason to doubt its accuracy - productivity per employee in the last 20 years has increased by more than 50 per cent. In these circumstances the Opposition is entitled to take the view that pension rates should be increased commensurately and to stress how pensions are lagging behind the cost of living. That is precisely what if is doing. 
This is why we ask the Senate to condemn the Government. The Government has failed to restore the relative value of repatriation pensions on every front. No matter what comparative figures can be produced - whether they be for the basic wage, the average weekly earnings or in respect of parliamentary pensions - we can see that the ex-serviceman is at a decided disadvantage. Even if the Government wished to take a strong stand as far as the majority of pensioners are concerned, I do not think it could justify its attitude to those ex-service pensioners who served in the Boer War 70 years ago and who served in the 1914-1918 War some 55 or 56 years ago. Surely the Government can look at this situation and re-examine the provisions of the Budget relating to exservice pensions. We urge the Senate to give serious consideration to adopting the same progressive attitude on the matter of repatriation benefits as it has adopted in respect of social services. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government agree that there is considerable confusion in world capitals arising from the unilateral decision of the Government of the United States of America to impose a 10 per cent surcharge on all imports? Will this decision affect the Australian economy? Does the Government intend to make a statement on this issue and allow the Parliament to debate the deteriorating world economic position? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe decision taken by the Government of the United States of America to impose a surcharge on imports has been linked to a significant degree with the monetary considerations of various nations. As the Senate would know, the Treasurer is currently overseas having discussions at the highest level about these problems. 1 have no doubt that when the patterns are clear and when the decisions have been formed,, developed and discussed by the Government an appropriate statement . will be made by the 
Treasurer on his return from overseas. This matter is very complex and would not lend itself to discussion at question time. 1 would agree that at an appropriate time the broad issues involved are matters which may well be discussed by either - this chamber or another place. 
The Opposition does not support the proposals before the Senate. We do not believe that the Commonwealth should vacate the field of payroll tax and hand it over to the States. We do not regard this as a machinery Bill. Rather we believe that a strong taxation principle is involved. 1 found myself in substantial agreement with the philosophical approach of  Senator Little  but I regret that he went on to indicate that although he opposes the terms of the Bill he sees no purpose in doing other than supporting it in the Senate. Under the guise of stabilising State finances, the Bill seeks to hand over to the States the power to collect tax on payroll which, as may be known, was instituted in the national Parliament in 1941. 
According to statements made by the Government speakers, the purpose of the Bill is to give the States access to a growth tax. There is no doubt that the moment the States had their hot, clammy little hands upon the tax they set out to increase it by 40 per cent, thereby adding approximately $90m to the cost structure and S90m to the various State budget revenues. It is pretty clear that the payroll tax will be a jet tax. It will be rising continually. I therefore share the fears of those who oppose the Bill because undoubtedly the States will be forced - this is the strategy of the Commonwealth - to solve their financial problems by constantly increasing this tax. The State governments had no alternative other than to accept this tax. If they had not accepted it, there was no possibility of their receiving even temporary relief from the financial crisis that is affecting all- of the State budgets and those of the semi-government and local government instrumentalities. The payroll tax has been described as an unjust, sectional and inequitable tax. It is one which certainly we on this side of the Senate would like to sec abolished at the Commonwealth level. It is one which we would like to see abolished completely from the taxation structures of this country. 
It is interesting to turn back through the debates and to see the reasons, the atmosphere and the background for the introduction of the tax in 1941. Largely, the legislation 10 introduce the tax was supported as being very just, because, in a period of war and of some financial difficulties, it sought to provide the Commonwealth with sufficient funds to enable it to take over the responsibilities of making a 5s child endowment payment to all children under 16 years of age. In the 30 years since the introduction of payroll tax, over $2,700m has been collected by the Commonwealth via this tax. So it cannot be said that it has not provided revenue of some magnitude and that it has not had some impact upon the general cost structure in our country. 
When  Mr Anthony,  the father of the present  Deputy  Prime Minister, introduced the legislation on behalf of the Government he said that a rate of £2 10s per centum would be imposed on all wages paid or payable by any employer after 30th June 1941. As the debate at the time indicated, it was regarded as a temporary measure. It was designed to assist the Government to accept its responsibilities at that time and to provide financial assistance to families, particularly large families, who were still suffering from the after effects of the great depression. So we accept the fact that the legislation was introduced at the time because there war, no other course of action left to the Government of the day. As we have seen in the intervening period, payroll tax revenue has become an integral part of Commonwealth revenue. lt is worth referring to the fact that in the 1941 Budget the income proposed to be received from payroll tax was less than £9m, or $18m in today's currency; but this increased in the 1970-71 Budget to  th2  princely sum of $230,468,697. Even in one year, the amount to be collected from the tax increased by $25m. When the tax was introduced it accounted for nine-thirteenths of the amount that was paid by the Commonwealth in child endowment. It is interesting to note how the situation has changed. We are now on the other side of the penny, because in the period presently under review, during which the Commonwealth proposes to vacate the field of payroll tax, Consolidated Revenue profited from payroll tax by 832m in excess of the amount needed to meet child endowment commitments. As has been said many times, it appears that the Commonwealth has profited considerably, as regards its income, by the inflationary spiral. Quite obviously, the States propose to use this tax as a means of trying to balance their Budgets. 
I have access to only the New South Wales Slate Budget. I note that the Premier of New South Wales proposes to raise the tremendous sum of $145m in his current Budget by the payroll tax. I think we can come to the conclusion that in vacating the field the Commonwealth has forced the States to increase payroll tax because, whilst vacating this field and handing over certain sums of money to the States via payroll tax, it has nevertheless also sought to reduce the reimbursement? and grants to the State governments. The Commonwealth finds itself in a hypocritical and contradictory position. Government spokesmen have been stumping th« country telling John Citizen that wage rises are the cause of inflation. If this is true, a tax imposed on wages must equally play a part in cost inflation. After all, if wages rise - and this is what Government spokesmen have been saying - this is contributing to the inflationary spiral. As I have indicated, the Commonwealth Government's assertion in this direction cannot be seen in a good light because approximately $92m will be received by the State governments as a result of the increase in payroll tax. If the Commonwealth Government was sincere in its economic deflationary moves, it could have vacated the field completely - not handed the tax over to the States - in an endeavour to play some part in reducing the cost structure. That is assuming that the arguments Government spokesmen have been producing in their propaganda have any merit at all. 
Approximately 58,000 firms, persons, companies and corporations are paying payroll tax. This proves that it is a sectional tax. Only a portion of the employers are paying tax. About two-thirds of the total number of employers in Australia qualify to pay the tax. Of course, it is significant that all Commonwealth Government agencies are exempt. It is worth pointing to the fact that the figures that I have been able to obtain show that in 1941 approximately 6.13 per cent of the total work force at the time of the last census prior to World War II worked in the Public Service. In May 1971 this figure has risen to 19.99 per cent, which represents an increase in excess of 300 per cent. Most of the tax that has been levied on the State, local and semi-government authorities has therefore been a tax upon the people themselves. It has been a double tax. 
The Opposition opposes the Bill because it will not solve the financial crisis in State, semi-government and local government finances. In point of fact, since the Budget was introduced - ostensibly it was a Budget to curb inflation - the various States have introduced their Budgets, each one contributing greatly to the inflationary trends. We have seen Bolte's blunders in the form of the receipts duty tax in Victoria, which was finally declared invalid, and the attempt to introduce a room tax, which looks like succeeding. He has drastically increased the charges generally in that State. Of course, now he has increased the payroll tax as well, after failing in his challenge to the validity of the Commonwealth legislation in the High Court. The same position applies in New South Wales where the motorist has been hit by the current budgetary problems in that State. Stamp duty, the cost of cheques, hospital charges and fares have increased. Although the Government may use the argument that this is a growth tax and will contribute towards a solution of the problems facing the States, I think that what has happened in the brief month or two that the 2 Houses of the national Parliament have been discussing the Commonwealth Budget is evidence that inflation will continue and that payroll tax will not make any appreciable difference in the matter of costs in the various States. 
The only ray of sunshine is that local government authorities and semigovernment bodies now will escape the penalty of having to pay the tax. The figures that I have been able to garner over the past few months indicate that since the tax was established 30 years ago local and semigovernment bodies have paid in excess of $50m to the Commonwealth in payroll tax. This means that ratepayers' money has been filched by the Commonwealth and spent in areas under Commonwealth control, thus reducing the effectiveness of local government authorities and semigovernment bodies to provide the many facilities which are so desirable in our community. Payroll tax is a special tax, and for that reason we oppose it. We are in good company here because when this matter was debated in the national Parliament in 1941 speakers from both sides of the House - Messrs Francis and Spooner were 2 from the Government side - directed attention to the undesirability of establishing special taxes. Temporary taxes become permanent taxes and form part of the Government's revenue. 
Let me mention the way in which special taxes finally become built into the whole tax structure. For instance, sales tax was introduced as a temporary measure by  Mr Theodore  in the Scullin Government. Today in our current Budget it has brought into Commonwealth revenue the princely sum of S630m. It is no longer a temporary measure. Petrol tax was introduced by the Bruce-Page Government in about 1929, ostensibly to provide funds for roads but a greater proportion than ever of that tax has gone into Commonwealth revenue. As honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have agreed, payroll tax was introduced to offset the cost of child endowment but despite the fact that in the last financial year $3 2m was paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund in payroll tax, child endowment has been kept to a very low level. Clearly that tax has lost its temporary nature and has finished up in the Commonwealth's coffers. 
For those reasons the Opposition feels that it has no alternative but to urge the Senate to reject the proposition before it. Although we are happy with the proposition that the Commonwealth should vacate the field, we feel that the Commonwealth should vacate the field generally and permit the States to have access to a better financial formula than that provided in the system of payroll tax. We believe that the time has arrived for a complete overhaul of our taxation system. Obviously the Commonwealth is not prepared to do that. It wants to retain a piecemeal approach to the subject. On the other hand, we believe that it would have been much better for the Commonwealth to have re-organised the whole taxation structure, thereby playing a significant part in instituting the deflationary .measures that are so necessary today while at the same time assisting State governments, semi-government bodies and local government authorities to carry out their responsibilities without having to take part in the annual circus that goes on prior to the preparation of the Budget each financial year. We oppose the proposition before the Senate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5.40) - in reply - Honourable senators who have taken part in this debate have indicated the views of the Government, the Opposition and the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I shall be brief because I want a vote taken on these Bills before the suspension of the sitting to facilitate  the  passage of other legislation to come before us. To  Senator Webster  let me say that a Bill to provide grants to industry equal tn the rebates which would have been allowable under the payroll tax rebate system will be introduced before the end of the session. There is no immediacy about that such as is the case with the Bills now before us because we have time available to us.  Senator Gietzelt  made the point that local government authorities will be relieved of the burden of payroll tax. It is the Government's intention that local government authorities in the Territories will receive the same concession as that made to authorities in the States, provided always that the local government authorities are not engaged in a business undertaking. Subject to that qualification, the same concession will apply. 1 think that the most effective way to deal with the Bills is to vote on the motion for the second reading of the Pay-roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill, and I suggest that that course be followed. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Does the Minister agree that there is considerable concern about the use of aircraft for freight cargo after the curfew period? Is the decision of Ansett Airlines of Australia to convert Electra aircraft for these purposes the thin edge of the wedge? What is the difference between the noise levels of Electra Aircraft and jets in the early hours of the morning? Will the Government reassure the public that it is totally opposed to the use of jet aircraft during the curfew for the transport of air cargo? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Does the Government expect the People's Republic of China to be admitted to the United Nations Organisation and to be seated in the Security Council? Will the Government consider the possibility of arranging a parliamentary delegation to China in order to. establish friendly ties with that country, to facilitate trade and to establish normal relations with the most heavily populated country in the world? 
The question was directed to me but may more properly be directed to the Department of Foreign Affairs. But again this is a question associated with policy and it is proper that I should put it on notice. I shall do that, if  Senator Wright  is happy about it, and refer it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the New South Wales Government, in its 1970-71 Budget accounts, has used Commonwealth financial assistance to meet an approximate $36m deficit? Does he know that this action is reported to be in conflict with Commonwealth Act No. Ill of 1970, the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act, which lays down that Commonwealth funds shall be applied for the purpose of financial assistance ... in connection with expenditure of a capital nature'? Is the action of the New South Wales Treasurer,  Mr Askin,  in direct contradiction of the tradition and spirit of Commonwealth assistance to the States and does it establish a dangerous precedent for the future of Commonwealth funds? As the Minister concerned with law and order and charged with the responsibility of ensuring that all people, governments included, carry out the law, will the Attorney-General examine the procedures adopted by the New South Wales Premier and see whether the N«w South Wales Government is in breach of a Federal Act? What action has he taken or does he propose to take to ensure compliance with the law by. the New South Wales Government? 

 - Mr President, I seek your indulgence because 1 find it somewhat difficult to decide whether the question which I wish to ask should be addressed to the Leader of the Government or to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Associated Chambers of Commerce which said that transport systems in Australia's major cities will soon reach strangulation point and essential community services will be prohibitive? Do the Chambers suggest that urban renewal will become a massive problem affecting the lives of more than 60 per cent of Australians in the major cities and that it Ls unrealistic to expect the States to shoulder the full responsibility for decentralisation? Will the Government heed the plea of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia and give immediate priority to the development of co-ordinated decentralisation policies and relieve the pressure on land prices and other social problems in the' urban areas? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Does the Government recognise that public transport in Australia is in a serious state of decline, particularly in the major cities? Have the State Ministers for Transport made any representations to the Commonwealth for sufficient funds to underwrite, in part or in whole, the capital indebtedness of the various State transport systems? Is it not a fact that the capital indebtedness of these systems is the principle influence in deteriorating public transport? Has the Government given any consideration to diverting the massive funds now made available to the States for road construction to the State public transport systems? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate draw to the attention of the Prime Minister the following statement attributed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs while recently in Tokyo: 
We have found that they- 
That is the Chinese -  do not mix politics with trade. 
Has the Minister also been informed, as reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 14th instant, that Japanese businessmen were greatly puzzled by this statement as Japanese companies are reported not to be allowed- 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the fact, as reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 22nd October 1971, that the Government recently brought pressure to bear on the Metal Trades Industry Association to resist moves to have collective bargaining agreements with unions? If so, is such an action a contribution to industrial peace or an unwarranted interference with the rights of employers and unions to negotiate freely in the spirit of conciliation for the fixation of just wage rates? 26 October 1971 
Following representations made to me by the family of Geoffrey Mullen I desire to ask a question of the Attorney-General. However, in view of his absence from the Senate, I wonder whether the Leader of the Government in the Senate would be prepared to answer the question. Is the Minister aware that  Mr 
Geoffrey Mullen, a young man gaoled for 2 years for refusing to be conscripted for the war in Vietnam, has been described by the various gaol superintendents as being a model prisoner? Does the Minister know that  Mr Mullen  has served 7 months of his sentence but has been shifted to at least 5 different penal institutions? Have these transfers been made at the request of the Commonwealth? Does the Minister know that the present prison where  Mr Mullen  is incarcerated is admitted by prison authorities to house an unusually high number of prisoners wilh homosexual tendencies? Can the Senate be assured that it is not the intention of the Government to harass or break the spirit of this young man who, on a matter of high principle, is paying a big enough price? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Government adopted the statement made by the Treasurer in the House of Representatives on 28th October and entitled "The International Monetary Situation' as its policy for the time being? Has the Government done this because it is unsure as to what action is best for Australia in the current world monetary crisis? Can the Minister assure the Australian people that the Government is watching closely the fate of the Australian dollar and will take prompt action to prevent any unscrupulous speculation about the future of our dollar which could seriously harm the Australian economy? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to reports that France, in the face of growing criticism, intends to persist with its nuclear test programme in the Pacific? Has the Government made fresh overtures to the French authorities to cancel the tests, having regard to the easing of international tension and the growing concern on environmental matters? Has the Government given any consideration to moves initiated by the Peruvian Government to break ofl: diplomatic relations with Franch if France persists in its nuclear testing arrangements? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government recognise that India is carrying a very heavy burden in looking after many millions of refugees who were rendered homeless following the East Pakistan disturbance and who are now riving in refugee camps in India? In view of this tremendous responsibility, will the Government give urgent consideration to donating relief to India following the tidal wave calamity which hit that country earlier this week, which also is causing great hardship? 
I agree with the first part of the question - that an extraordinary burden has been placed upon that nation. A similar question was posed to me yesterday or on Tuesday by  Senator Gair  and I said I would have it referred to the Prime Minister's Department. I will send the subsequent question along also as a representation made on this issue by the honourable senator. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that many thousands of secondary school students will be unable to enrol in universities in 1972 because of inadequate facilities in existing universities? Has the Government received any requests from the States for special grants to overcome the shortage of facilities in tertiary education? If not, will the Government initiate talks with the States with a view to providing Commonwealth funds to enable the provision of additional facilities and/or universities? 
I address to the Attorney-General a question which refers to his enjoyment of a reply that was given yesterday by  Senator Drake-Brockman  when he claimed that the Australian Country Party spoke with one voice. Has the Minister received a copy of a speech made in the New South Wales Legislative Council on 11th August last by the Honourable W. G. Keighley, M.A., M.L.C., advocating abortion law reform? Is it a fact that that honourable member is a member of the Country Party? Does the Minister know whether his views are the views of the Country Party? Does the Minister also know that  Mr Keighley  claims that in Sydney one detective in three is engaged in abortion investigation, and that this ratio is very high in the light of the multitude of duties carried out by detectives in Sydney? 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator is asking a question which is not within the ministerial responsibility of the Minister to whom he has addressed the question. 
My final paragraph links it up. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Then I wish that the honourable senator had put the last paragraph first so that it would have given some guidance to me. 
Could the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether the same high ratio of investigation into abortions is carried out by police in the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia that transport systems in Australia's major cities will soon reach strangulation point and so render the cost of essential community services prohibitive. 
Does the Chamber suggest that urban renewal will become a massive problem, affecting the lives of more than 60 per cent of Australians in the major cities, and that it is unrealistic to expect the States to shoulder the full responsibility for decentralisation. 
Will the Government heed the plea of the Chamber and give immediate priority to the development of co-ordinated decentralisation policies in order to relieve the pressure on land prices, and alleviate other social problems in the urban areas- 
I ask a question of the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that Australia is the only country which levies a sales tax on contraceptives? Was this deplorable situation revealed yesterday by the Acting Director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Reverend Peter Hollingsworth, at a seminar in Melbourne? What reply does the Government make to his criticism that it is actively discouraging family planning by levying this tax at the rate of 274 per cent as a luxury item under the amusement tax? ls it not true that this tax hits hardest at the lower income groups who need contraceptives most? Will the Government adopt a more rational viewpoint on this subject and either remove or substantially reduce this iniquitous levy? 
I am noi aware that sales tax on contraceptives is peculiar to Australia. Obviously somebody has stated that. 1 would need to have research done into it. While no doubt it would have been stated in good faith, nevertheless the world is a big place and I would have to check that statement. I come now to the substance of the question. The honourable senator referred to the imposition of 'he sales tax at 27i per cent. He also made reference to the reason for the impostion of the sales tax. I would not comment on that matter. The matter is clearly a Treasury mat'er. Any Treasury matter has to be referred to the Treasurer for consideration. As I have said many times here over a good many years, at Budget time the Treasury and the 
Treasurer have to look, in the Budget context, at a wide range of applications for exemption from sales tax and at the incidence of sales tax. Sales tax on this item would be one of the matters that they examine. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the tremendous growth in company takeovers by both overseas and indigenous major groups? Is the Government aware that the competition between rival groups to acquire Australian concerns invariably results in an above value payment being made for the shares of the companies being swallowed up? Does the Minister regard these transactions as inflationary? Has the Government given any consideration to levying an acquisition or takeover tax on these operations as a means of making higher social service payments to the needy? 
Levies and takeover taxes clearly are matters of policy in the first place and 1 will direct the question to the Treasurer. It would be singularly inappropriate for me to attempt to answer such a question at question time because it has many implications in it. There are certain procedures in relation to governmental intervention in these matters. I think the honourable senator and the whole of the Senate are entitled to a comprehensive reply to the question and that I shall get 
 I move the following amendment: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should provide the Stales with adequate funds to enable them to - 
Meet  the special housing needs of (a) low income earners, (b) pensioners, (c) migrants, (d) Aborigines and (e) deserted wives and similarly disadvantaged people; and 
Acquire existing dwellings for restoration and allocation by rental or sale'. 
I wonder whether the Commonwealth Government accepts the view that the provision of shelter is one of the basic human needs. What we know ofhistory certainly confirms that all previous as well as existing civilisations have regarded shelter as a primary consideration. It is not asking too much in today's society to accept that the word 'shelter' does not mean solely being protected from the elements.It means the provision of adequate and comfortable shelter accompanied by all of the services modern man needs to live properly. Shelter is surely the cornerstone in the structure that is part of the quality of life. Surveys show that we spend about half of our time in our shelter - in our home: within the home environment. If we are concerned with people -I believe that is what life is about - we cannot ignore the tremendous pressures building up in the community today for reasonable accommodation. The Labor movement believes that it is the responsibility of government to promote and provide the resources so that the whole country is properly housed in an environment that is planned, pleasant and adequate. 
We do not canvass in this debate the role of the private sector in the matter of accommodation. However, we do take issue with the Government on its responsibilities to provide decent, inexpensive and acceptable housing for those on low incomes. Such homes should be provided to meet the needs of the people, as well as being within their personal resources. Yet such is not the case. There is abundant evidence to show that because of insufficient activity arising from the shortage of funds in the various State housing commissions, many low and moderate income earners are forced to solve their accommodation problems in the private sector. Of course, this is a negation of the 1945 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. By using the private sector, the family has to work excessively to pay the first and second mortgages which are so much part of our society today. This is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs, and it has serious social implications. At a seminar in Canberra recently - I think it was in May -  Mr Elzo  Vandernark in a paper headed 'Finance for Property InvestmentHousing' said after a comprehensive survey that the Government's share in the expenditure on new houses and flats had decreased from 14 per cent in 1959-60 to 10 per cent in 1969-70. He was referring to the total expenditure on accommodation. Similarly in this same decade building society loans had increased from $70.7m to S333.7m, an annual growth rate of 19 per cent. Net loans outstanding had increased by 13 per cent from $460.6m to $l,304.7m. State Government expenditure had fallen steadily over this same period. In absolute terms, their contribution in 1969-70 was half the 1959-60 contribution. The provision of Commonwealth funds in capital investment in housing, therefore, has dropped from about 10 per cent to 3 per cent. It is the property ownercumdeveloper and the public bureacracy which are setting the pace in accommodation. Speculation and insufficient public funds for services invariably combine to produce, a situation where the average wage earner has little chance of obtaining reasonable land or accommodation. It is for these reasons that we feel we should move the amendment to express concern at the failure of the States, because of the inadequacy of Commonwealth funding, to meet the needs of those whom we have generally regarded as disadvantaged people. The urban poor, therefore, must look to the Government for the supply of their basic needs having regard to the speculation and the lack of public funds for services generally that are associated with the private sector. They look to the Government for cheaper land, cheaper and better housing, cheap transport, better education facilities, welfare and other services as well as for a decent environment. But they look in vain for it is in (he provision of these basic essentials that the Government is at least a generation behind. We believe that in the private sector it is the speculator and the investor who are ahead in the accommodation race. This legislation shows clearly that it is the Commonwealth's intention to keep the investor out in front by about 20 lengths. While the Government runs a bad last, the public sector is unable to meet its commitment. Yet, we have a tradition in our country. The first permanent building was a government building. The first wharf and warehouse was a government wharf and warehouse. The first food eaten was government rations, and when the first wheat from the government farm was ready for milling it went to a government mill. The government was a dominant influence in everyday life. It was looked to in every emergency - flood, drought and so on. Today that is the way in which many sectors of our community seek solace in the problems that they face. Therefore, we are entitled to believe that the Commonwealth equally should accept its responsibilities in housing. 
The planning of Canberra, the city of Elizabeth, the Mount Druitt project, the satellite city of Campbelltown - I agree that here I am dealing with some of the New South Wales areas - all continue this emphasis on government involvement to provide an acceptable environment for the ordinary person. The Commonwealth has spared no efforts or funds to establish Canberra as a desirable place in which to live, a place where the residents enjoy standards far superior to those in any other city in Australia. On the other hand. State housing commissions, which grew out of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement Act of 1945, while accepting responsibility for providing homes for low and moderate income groups, have not been able to meet their responsibilities in a satisfactory fashion. In 1968, the New South Wales Housing Commission had this to say in its annual report to the New South Wales Government: 
It is not predictable nor consistent with its role for the Commission to adopt to any greater extent than it does the more costly trends in amenities evident in dwellings for private ownership. While there is no physical problem in building more expensive dwellings, those provided by the Commission are for people for whom no other organisation will cater or service in this important matter of housing and who are unable to have their reasonable requirements met in a rental or purchase basis through the private sector. It is important always that regard be had to the social welfare basis of the Commission's activities which must have a bearing on the type of dwellings provided in its ordinary programmes. 
It is a matter of great regret - the home hungry people of Australia should know this-that in 1943 the Chifley Government set up a Commonwealth Housing Commission lo inquire into housing requirements for. Australia. It sought to acquire land to build homes and to allocate homes to people on a priority basis. It sought to solve' the acute housing problems following 15 years of neglect. I remind the Senate that for some 10 years there was a very dramatic downturn in home building in Australia because of the depression. Of course! that was carried on for many years during the War because of the lack of resources, facilities, materials and the like. The Commonwealth Housing Commission which was established asked the States to ensure that adequate housing legislation was passed in each of the State legislatures to enable rental housing projects, slum clearance and town planning to proceed. The Commonwealth also offered to subsidise any approved local government authority', group of authorities or regional councils in any replanning scheme.  I  think that in retrospect we can say the Australian people lost, a glorious opportunity in not carrying on that forward planning which obviously was the result of sOme foresight and vision in the mid war years. We would have removed the tremendous inflationary spiral, that has been so much a part of our postwar development, in the cost of land and certainly we would have enabled governments generally to have met their responsibilities on a much more equitable basis if that legislation had remained on the statute book. 
The Menzies Government, which was elected in 1949, refused to follow through the important forward planning proposed by that earlier legislation. The Government said that the matter was not one of Commonwealth concern, but fortunately the die had been cast because the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was already 4 or 5 years old by the time the Menzies Government took office. It was operating. It was accepted in the community and the Menzies Government had no course other than to accept it and to continue to expand it. It was to be operated for the next 25 years - a quarter of a century. Australians should know that fundamentally the Commonwealth has been a reluctant dragon in the field of home ownership, and the Australian Labor Party senses that in" the new agreement there may well be the thin edge of the wedge to pull out completely from Federal involve ment in housing. The Government's proposals mean that for the first time the States will operate their own loan fund:!. They will make their own arrangements in the loan market for the borrowings approved as a result of this Bill. 
The Bill provides for a formula which, on initial examination, appears to provide a large amount, appears to be beneficial and appears to provide adequate funds to enable the States to carry out their responsibilities through the various State housing authorities. The Bill proposes an annual grant of $2. 75m a year, on a cumulative basis for 5 years, for 30 years, which means that in that period approximately $41 2.5m will become available to the States. It means that for the current financial year, 1971-72, §2. 75m will become available and will be added to for 1972-73 to provide $5.5m, $8.25m in 1973-74, $11m in 1974-75 and $.13.75 in 1975-76 and in each of the subsequent 25 years until the year 2001. Superficially this appears to represent a' large sum for that period. The $41 2.5m might be. to the cursory examination that we sometimes give to these matters, the kind of money that would break the back of the housing crisis that does exist in this country. 
The agreement will take us to the year 2005 - 5 years after the turn of the century. Many people in the planning field, in the universities regard the year 2000 as something of a yardstick for planning purposes. For instance, Sydney is expected to double its population by the year 2000. There will be 150 miles' of uninterrupted urban development from Newcastle to Wollongong. A proportion of the money provided by the Bill will be available for home building in that region, as also will proportions be available for home building in other regions throughout Australia. Deeper Government involvement, heavier Government expenditure and more planning obviously will be vital if accommodation in this region is to be satisfactory and acceptable. T digress for a moment to point out that in the public sector the tremendous sums that will be required to provide housing and land generally in the Sydney region are probably worth recording. The New South Wales Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board estimates that it will cost that body $  1,850m,  which is 3 times its 1967 capital assets, to provide the water and sewerage needed for that tremendous development and growth of population. Likewise it is estimated that the metropolitan road system will require an expenditure of $2,600m in the same period. I am unable to obtain figures which indicate the kind of money that will be required by the States to provide education, hospitals and other public facilities. T merely make the point that tremendous demands will be made upon the Slate governments to provide the essential services to make accommodation a reality for the man in the street. I think the States are entitled to expect the Commonwealth to provide adequate funds for housing if the Stales are to make available that kind of money to provide the services in sill the new housing estates. 
The Housing Industry Association has suggested that in less than half this period - that is between now and the year 2005 - 7 million young couples will marry and that 3 million migrant family groups will be looking for homes in this country. On present trends, many will want to live in the major cities. Many, particularly those in the migrant groups, will be looking to the Government for help to establish their homes. They will be looking for financial assistance to provide that accommodation. 
The first period was to the year 2005 but in half the period between now and then 7 million married couples and 3 million migrant groups will require accommodation. When the 1939-45 war ended Australia's population was 7,391,000. I am led lo believe that today that figure has grown to in excess of 13 million. Migration accounts for 44 per cent of our population increase. More than 2.5 million people have come to Australia since the end of World War II. When the 1945 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was renegotiated in 1956 the Budget allocation for housing in relation to the 1954-55 Budget had been 2.68 per cent. As far as I have been able to gather, almost 2 million migrants have settled in Australia since that time - many of them in the capital cities - yet the allocation of funds for housing in the 1970 Budget fell to 1.75 per cent of that Budget. If all things were equal it would be necessary for the Commonwealth to spend an extra S75m. This does not take into consideration the many migrants for which surely the Commonwealth must agree to accept responsibility. It has thrust responsibility for housing these migrants upon the States, the local government authorities and the semi-government authorities, expecting them to provide the services and accommodation and without giving adequate funds in the period in which it has assumed the responsibility for the affairs of this nation. 
The figure for 1954, which was the last figure prior to the year in which the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement was re-negotiated, shows that 22 per cent of all homes were constructed by public authorities. This was encouraged by the Commonwealth, lt is a matter of regret that the figures show that in 1970, 16 years later, the number of homes constructed by public authorities had fallen to 9.8 per cent. In other words the number of homes provided by public authorities has fallen to almost half. This is happening in a period of galloping inflation and in a period in which each State housing authority is recording an increase in the number of persons seeking State housing assistance. The figures available to us show that about 90,000 people are currently on the waiting list of the various State housing authorities. Therefore the Government must recognise that, whilst there have been certain advantages in the existing legislation, those advantages have not taken into consideration the total responsibilities in regard to population growth and the States' additional activities. So we believe that we are justified in moving an amendment that seeks to express the Senate's concern at the failure of the Government to meet the needs of the various State housing authorities. 
The Government, of course, up till now has offered loan moneys to the Stales for housing at 1 per cent less than the current bond rate. In this legislation it proposes to abolish that important concession and to make a grant to supersede it. The Government also proposes to make available to the States .$ 1.25m as a flat grant each year for rent rebate purposes, ft is our impression, having read some of the comments by the State Housing Ministers, that this will still leave a debit to be faced in the State Budgets. In other words, it will not reach the limit achieved in the rent rebate system which has been in operation since the 1945 agreement was enacted. The Commonwealth, whilst it is making a grant towards it, has not been prepared to meet the total rebate cost. Surely we , must accept the principle that rent rebates are paid to those who are on the very basic incomes. The rebates are granted only after the application of stringent means tests by the various State housing authorities. In those circumstances I think the States are entitled to expect that the Commonwealth will make the total sums available. 

 Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin, who was the Commonwealth Minister for Housing, had this to say on 29th September 1970- only 14 months ago: 
One of the major aims of our housing contribution in the next 3 years will be to encourage the States to provide decent housing for lower income groups who are unable lo obtain satisfactory private accommodation. 
Official figures from the Commissioner of Taxation show that 70 per cent of all Australians earn less than average weekly earnings. These people are being priced out of the private sector of accommodation and clearly will not be provided with the sort of accommodation needed and referred to by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. 
The Australian Labor Party's aim is to stimulate a vigorous Federal involvement in land and housing. We propose that there should be a Commonwealth Department of Housing, Urban Affairs and Regional Development. We have brought our policies up to date. We suggest that the Government is still living in the past. This legislation has been accepted by the State Housing Ministers, although one has only to read their comments to appreciate that they accepted it because they had no alternative. The Parliament and the people have been and are being fed a piecemeal, innocuous and inept piece of legislation which solves nothing in the field of public housing, lt will keep public housing in the poorhouse. lt will do nothing to reduce the waiting list of those people who are anxious and impatient to be provided with decent accommodation. 1 remind the Senate that in 1967, on the initiative of the then South Australian Minister for Housing the late  Mr Walsh,  the State housing ministers unanimously agreed to request the Commonwealth to provide Sim for investigation into urban renewal.  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, who was also at that conference, agreed in principle to the proposals that were discussed there and agreed to put them to the Government. Nothing has eventuated. In our amendment we seek to say something about urban renewal and the renovation or rehabilitation of existing homes in the inner core areas. Around all the major capital cities today, I think it is freely conceded, there are homes which are capable of being renovated or improved. At the moment they are occupied largely by migrants. Bui those people have the greatest difficulty in obtaining sufficient financial accommodation to acquire these properties and carry out the necessary renovation. 
We believe that it could be and should be one of the functions of the State housing authorities to provide funds for this purpose. Of course, the sort of money that is being made available by the Commonwealth will prevent this from happening. So those people, together with many of our young Australians, are forced to borrow what they can through housing finance organisations and then to go on to the dear money market, lt is common knowledge how many people in the low income groups today are forced to pay I2i per cent and sometimes up to 14 per cent on a second mortgage in order to acquire a home. In the inner suburbs they pay the higher rates because those areas are regarded as risky. All this is happening because in our view the Commonwealth, whilst making a token gesture with respect to housing, is not accepting its major responsibility. 

 Mr Whitlam has pointed out that 75 per cent of all housing loans from institutional lenders are now made at rates of interest which mean that the total interest payments substantially exceed the value of the loans themselves. I think it is relevant to refer to the fact that in 1949 the interest on an $8,000 loan would have been 54,456, but today it will cost 58,440 to borrow $8,000. 
Over the same period of  25  years. No matter what the period may be, the fact is that the higher interest rates which are approved by this Government are contributing to a worsening of the housing situation for most Australians. Twenty-four per cent of all borrowers are obliged to secure an average of  $2,000  from fringe lenders at high second mortgage rates, even when they are able to borrow favourably from a lending institution. Yet the Minister for Housing,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, had the gall to say: 
We believe the Commonwealth should continue to assist the States to provide bousing for persons of low or moderate means. 
There was optimism last year that the Commonwealth would recognise its responsibilities, but the new agreement has confounded even the Government's own supporters in the various State governments. The Ministers for Housing in the conservative governments of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and elsewhere have all, in one way or another in recent months, expressed their concern at the failure of the Commonwealth Government to negotiate a more favourable agreement. This led to a comment by John O'Hara in the Sydney 'Sun' recently. After attending a conference of the Commonwealth and State Housing Ministers - this belies the rather benevolent tone of the Minister when he presented the second reading speech in the other place  -  Mr O'Hara  said: 
State Government circles expect the new CommonwealthState Housing Agreement for low income earners to break down within a year because of rising land and bousing costs.  1 have spent a considerable part of my recent years in local government and therefore T have had a close affinity with those associated with the building industry. The building industry expects another dramatic increase in building costs in the next  5  years. Of course, their estimates may vary from time to time and from person to person but the general consensus is that within the next  5  years building costs will double. We all know something of the dramatic increase in the cost of land. It is now priced beyond the means of the average person. When we consider these factors surely we must look at the $4 12m which the Commonwealth seeks to see whether in fact in the circumstances it is adequate and sufficient to meet the needs of the average Australian who requires accommodation, finance and services. The people in the low income group surely are the responsibility of governments. Pensioners are the responsibility of governments. We can assert with certainty and without disagreement that migrants are the responsibility of governments. We bring migrants to this country. We encourage their immigration. I hope the Government accepts its responsibilities to Aborigines and, of course, to deserted wives and other disadvantaged people. People who fall into these groups are the ones who come within the ambit of the Housing Commissions' activities. With this current agreement we will leave these groups of people not able to be properly provided for. 
This is why we seek to add to the motion our concern that there are inadequate funds to meet the housing needs of these people and why we add to the motion the proposal that existing dwellings for restoration, rental or sale should also become the responsibility of the State Housing Commissions and that adequate funds should be made available for this purpose. We do not seek to make political capital out of the social problem that exists in relation to housing in Australia. T was one of those who came into this Senate believing that housing was probably the greatest social problem facing the Australian people. Perhaps my vision has been broadened somewhat in the period that I have been here, but I still believe it is amongst the great social problems that need to be tackled, overcome and solved by governments. When the ordinary people are unable to have their need of shelter met they are entitled to expect governments to come to their assistance. We believe that the attitude that the Government has adopted on this legislation will mean perpetuating the same general policies as it has been following since 1949. For these reasons we believe that the Senate is entitled to be asked to support our amendment expressing our concern that the most needy people in our community are not properly provided for under this Agreement. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, ls the Government aware that thousands of young university students who usually work during the university vacation to assist finance their education are unable to gain employment due to the current economic difficulties? Does the Minister agree that these students will consequently suffer severe hardship in 1972. particularly as university fees are rising alarmingly? Would the Minister discuss with the . Prime Minister (he possibility of making grants to local and semi-government authorities, as the Government is doing in some rural areas, so that these young people can be gainfully employed over the next few months? 
It is within my general knowledge, and I think it is within *he general knowledge of all honourable senators, that students ;it the tertiary level seek casual employment during the vacation period to help their financial situation, and particularly to help them in their future education and studies al university. Accepting tha* as the basis of the question. I am not aware of the extent of their inability to obtain the casual employment to which the honourable senator referred. I am not aware of this in the sense in which he posed the question. I think I should refer that aspect of his question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I will see that that is done today. 
-I refer the Leader of the Government to a question I asked yesterday, to which he replied that he was not aware of the extent to which university students could not obtain casual employment during the university vacation. I now ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements issued yesterday by officials of most student bodies which claim that in total 10,000 students already are seriously embarrassed by the absence of casual employment? Will the Minister reconsider the request I made yesterday for specific grants to local and semigovernment agencies through the States, similar to the$20m grants to rural local government bodies, by discussing this matter with the Prime Minister with a view to helping these young people or, alternately, permitting them to apply for unemployment social service payments? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI recall the question very well. I said yesterday that I was not aware of the significance of the short-fall in employment or the inability of students to obtain casual employment. The honourable senator has referred me to statements which I have not seen. In fairness to his question yesterday let me say that it should be clearly understood that I do not make the decisions in a matter of this kind. This is a matter that would come primarily within the responsibility of the Treasurer and the Minister for Labour and National Service. The honourable senator may be assured that, regardless of my answer yesterday, the question already would have been directed to those departments for examination. I shall send his subsequent question through the same process of referral. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise recognise that textbooks for school children are an integral but expensive part of our education requirements? ls the Minister aware that on many school textbooks an import duty of 57.5 per cent is levied? On what grounds does the Government justify the imposition of duty on books used in our State or private education systems? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister, when he was the Minister for Foreign Affairs some 11 months ago, describe the decision of the Italian Government to recognise the People's Republic of China as unfortunate. 
Does the Government's decision to cosponsor the resolution seeking the admission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations Organisation mean that the Government has changed its attitude towards China, or has pressure been applied on the Australian Government by the United States of America to support their current policy towards the People's Republic of China. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2)I assume that the honourable senator is referring to a Press report in the 'Canberra Times' on 7th November 1970 which concerned recognition. The Government's views on this have been stated on a number of occasions andI have made it clear that it is our long term objective to normalise our bilaceral relations with the Government of the People's Republic of China. This and other Government decisions on China policy, which have been made clear in public statements by myself and other members of the Government, have reflected changes in the international situation. As regards the alternative part of question (2), the answer is no. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government expect the People's Republic of China to be admitted into the United Nations Organisation and to be seated in the Security Council. 
Will the Government consider the possibility of arranging a Parliamentary delegation to China in order to establish friendly ties and to facilitate Australian trade with the most heavily populated country in the world. 
The Department of Labour and National Service, with which we are concerning ourselves, has been very active in the field of income, wages and salaries over the past 12 months, lt has been spending a great deal of its time, either on its own initiative or at the direction of the Government suggesting pegging the incomes of those who can be regarded as being in the low income groups, and maybe the moderate income groups. I invite the Committee to look al the figures which have been supplied. This is the other side of the coin referred to by  Senator Wriedt:  I refer to a reply given only a few days ago in the other place by the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  to a question that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Glyde Cameron)  had on notice. The reply contained a table setting out the number and percentage of managerial, etc., staff and all other full time adult males - total weekly earnings groups - as at May 1.971. It seems that the policy of the Department is always to concern itself with those who are in these categories rather than with those in the categories that have been referred to by Senators Murphy, James McClelland and Wriedt. 
lt is page 4254 of the Hansard of Tuesday, 7th December, lt shows thai 7 per cent of the male work force is in receipt of a total weekly income of less than S57.99, that 10 per cent of the male work force is in receipt of an income of less than S59.99 a week, that 24 per cent of the male work force is in receipt of an income of less than $70 a week and that 40 per cent of the male work force is in receipt of an income of less than  $79.99  a week. In other words the table shows very clearly and very starkly, in contrast with what  Senator Wriedt  had to say, that those who are producing the wealth of the country, even in this period when there are certain downturns in our economy, are the ones who are being asked to bear the main part of the burden. That is why we on this side find ourselves in constant conflict with the Government when in particular the Treasurer and to some extent his representative here seek to attribute all the ills associated with inflation to those in the income groups who are seeking to get some part of the so-called prosperity that exists in our community. 
I find a great deal of hypocrisy in the statements made by Government spokesmen, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in particular, dealing with parliamentary salaries. He has set up a tribunal - a Government-appointed judge - to examine salaries payable to members of this place and of the other place. He then sought to justify certain reductions in this field. I was one of those who adopted what I considered to be an attitude of principle when the Australian Labor Party met privately to discuss these matters. The Labor Party, in adopting the stance that it did, did not do so to be in unity with the editor of the Sydney Morning Herald'. We repudiate completely the views expressed by those in the newspapers who have been so active and who find a ready unity with and echo the sentiments of the Government and its representatives in the Department whose appropriation we are discussing. I find the same hypocrisy in Liberal Premiers, including the Premier of New South Wales who at one time was calling upon local government in New South Wales to exercise restraint in raising rates. In the same breath he drastically increased fares and motor vehicle registration fees. These are part of the policies which are being pursued. 1 think that the Government is attempting to place the whole financial responsibility and burden on those who are in the categories to which I referred earlier. We are for an income redistribution policy. Of course the Department should be playing a leading role in this field. On the contrary, it goes along with managerial revelry and tall poppies, doing as it wishes when it will to satisfy its own financial attitudes. The philosophy of those who have been attempting in recent weeks to impose their policies even on the national parliament seems to be: Do not do as I do; do as I say. The Department does very little to counter this propaganda and the arguments that relate to the national Parliament which have been so well advanced over recent weeks. 
I think that the Committee has a responsibility to suggest to the Department that we can effectively use taxation provisions to obtain an equalisation of income and to implement an income redistribution policy. If it is argued that people on low incomes create something of an inflationary spiral, we on this side of the chamber argue that those in managerial positions - in relation to whom figures have been produced by  Senator Wriedt  - should exercise some leadership. I think that the Department should exercise some leadership. It should suggest that a policy be adopted which will show that the whole community is prepared to make some sacrifices to get us out of the financial impasse in which we are in at the moment. We on this side of the chamber indicate that we are going to have a very close look at the salaries of judges and senior public servants who do not seem to have the yardstick applied to their salary claims. I never see those people making claims for increases in salary. The Government seems to adopt the view that it should take the initiative to set the base for salary increases among the tall poppies. One would expect that if the Government were sincere about the salary matters which were introduced into the other place last night it would take the initiative in relation to the salaries of judges and senior public servants. 
Of course, the Government is much influenced by senior public servants, particularly those in Treasury. I think that the Committee would be well advised to reexamine the salaries which are being suggested in so many fields as they have been examined by committees in recent times. I fully support the views which have been expressed by the preceding speakers from this side of the chamber. We do not accept the knocking which is now part of the declared policy of those who govern the affairs of our country at the executive level - those who seek to knock the Parliament as an institution - and those who seek to carry out their responsibility in an elective capacity. One finds it difficult to appreciate the sentiments expressed by a spokesman from the Chamber of Manufactures who suggested that there should be wage restraints at all levels of the community, including Parliament. That spokesman is in the managerial sector which enjoys the very high salaries and emoluments which have been referred to in previous debates. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Education and Science 
Proposed expenditure, $154,134,000. 
asked the Attorney- 
General the following question, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the New South Wales Government, in its 1970-1971 Budget Accounts, has used Commonwealth financial assistance to meet an approximate $36m deficit. 
Is this action reported to be in conflict with the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1970 which provides that Commonwealth funds should be applied for the purpose of financial assistance in connection with expenditure of a capital nature. 
Is the action of the New South Wales Treasurer in direct contradiction to the tradition and spirit of Commonwealth assistance to the States, and does it establish a dangerous precedent for the future of Commonwealth funds. 
Will the Attorney-General examine the procedures adopted by the New South Wales Premier to see whether the New South Wales Government is in breach of Commonwealth law, and advise what action he has taken, or proposes to take, to ensure compliance with the law by the New South Wales Government. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that indigenous Australians - probably the greatest number to visit the Canberra region in the last century - are demonstrating for land rights outside the Parliament today? Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Police or the Australian News and Information Bureau had movie cameras photographing the whole proceedings? If so, who gave instructions for this to be done? Is it Federal Government policy to use the camera to record on film all those who participate in such public gatherings? Is this not a form of intimidation and a denial of the right of free assembly? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime . Minister, upon notice: 
Was a request made 6 months ago by the United States Government for the sending of Australian troops to Cambodia, and was it considered by the Government's advisers and not brought before Cabinet for discussion. 
Are reports correct that the Prime Minister was not informed of this request until he was ready lo leave on his present overseas visit. 
Did Cabinet discuss this request only on 2nd November 1971. 
Does the Government believe that its advisers should withhold such vital information from the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for the Army, the Cabinet, the Government and the Parliament. Does the Parliament have no say in such an important matter involving the use of Australian forces in another threatre of war in South-East Asia. 
Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the bureaucracy is not running the country, and that Parliament is still the authoritative institution charged wilh the management of the nation's affairs. 
1 direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government concede that in the last 23 years the average citizen has accumulated a greater amount of worldly goods? Does the Minister agree that the hire purchase procedures have been used largely by workers to make such purchases? In view of the admitted unemployment existing ali over Australia, has the Government given any serious consideration to the proposal of the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a moratorium or legislation to protect those out of work from losing their purchases made under current hire purchase agreements? 
I think it is unquestionable that there has been a significant accumulation of worldly goods in Australia. The honourable senator referred to a period of 25 years. I note that this Government has been in power for 20 of those years. It is equally true - this can be documented - that the deposits of members of the working community in our savings banks are at an all time high. 1 think we are in agreement on that. I suggest that the part of the question that relates to the implications of the present economic situation and hire purchase be placed on the notice paper. If that is done, I will refer it to the Treasurer for a reply. 
The Australian Labour Party welcomes the opportunity to take issue with the Government on the various points of view which have been expressed in this debate by the Government's supporters. As usual the supporters of the Government have endeavoured to capitalise electorally by expressing the view that they have expressed in this Parliament for many years, namely, that we should fear agression from some external source.  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  again sought to do that in their contributions to the debate on this occasion. Let us examine the report on the Indian Ocean region of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. The terms of reference of that inquiry were laid down by this chamber some 20 months ago. The evidence which is now before the Senate was taken some 10 months ago. One would imagine that if the spokesman for the Government are to be believed when they talk about the great perils facing this country as a result of the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean the Government would have acted with some alacrity to do something about those perils and not just set up a committee to examine the problems that may exist as a result of the sudden discovery in 1968 - 4 years ago - that there was in fact a Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean. 
I suggest to the Senate that there is sufficient evidence in this report to show that spokesmen for the Government are attempting to bang the drum and kick the can, as they have been doing for the last 20 years, on the question of defence in order to establish in the minds of the Australian public a need for greater expenditure on defence and thereby get a reaction from the electorate that will keep the present Government in office. I do not think anyone in this chamber will disagree with me when I say that defence considerations or defence debates have dominated the functioning of the Parliament over the past 20 years. Before I became a member of this chamber I often read the Hansard report of the proceedings or listened to the broadcasts and I was always struck by the fact that matters related to Australia's defence occupied a great deal of the time of the Parliament. One has only to go back to the election of about 1952 when  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, said that Australia had 3 years to prepare itself against a possible conflict. I must admit that the spokesmen for the Government who have made a contribution to the debate to date have adopted a rather low key attitude because they recognise that propaganda rather than facts is the matter which is under debate; but 20 years later we are still considering the need to do something about defending Australia from a possible source of aggression, although in this instance the area concerned is the Indian Ocean. 
The report of the Joint Committee is a most unusual one. That is because the thinking of the Committee itself is influenced largely by Government supporters. Most honourable senators on this side of the chamber lost interest in the Committee's considerations. One finds in the Committee's report many statements which in my view need to be put on the record, and from those statements one can only come to the conclusion that Government supporters have not correctly read the report or have been attempting to base their remarks on the fear philosophy which has dominated the Government for the last 20 years or so. 
Let us consider some of the interesting observations made in the report. I shall not deal with them page by page although at various stages I shall read some of the observations that were made. The Committee made the point that the Indian Ocean has been a relatively quiet area, that onequarter of the nations of that region have now joined the United Nations as a result of the end of colonialism in the region and that approximately one-third of the world's population resides in the area. It mentions that there have been vast changes. It is interesting to note that the Committee stressed that as a result of these vast changes and as a result of the experience of the newly emerging countries, most of them have adopted a non-aligned approach in respect of the cold war and the issues which have plagued this universe for the last 25 years. The Committee made the point that a Soviet presence cannot at present be considered to be an aggressive military force or a threat to Australia. These are not my words; these are the words contained in the report. The Committee made the point that there is a fear in the region of a major power buildup. It is upon that premise that Government speakers have attempted to develop their case. The report states that there has been an extension of interest and participation by the major powers in the Indian Ocean, but interestingly enough the Committee said at page 15 of the report: 
The non-aligned states seek to develop profitable links with external powers of all political persuasions, while preserving their independence and sovereignty. In the Indian Ocean, for example, India and Tanzania have developed extensive relations with the USSR and PRC respectively, while maintaining links with the West and continuing to participate in the Commonwealth. 
In other words, the nations in that region have encouraged the participation of the major powers in their region. One would not draw that conclusion if one were to examine the speeches of  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Drake-Brockman;  one would imagine that the USSR and the People's Republic of China have gone into that area in defiance of the views of the nations in the region. The report goes on to say that Australia should follow a policy which demonstrates our interest in reducing conflicts and tensions and should work with other nations in the region to achieve this and to avoid antagonising the nonaligned nations in the region. Therefore, it is open for us to wonder what is the motivation behind the Government in seeking to emphasise that Australia has something to be worried about by the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean. I hope to be able to show in the few words that 1 shall utter that Australia really is the only country that is expressing concern about these recent developments - if we may refer to 1968-72 as a recent period. The report goes on to say at page 21 : 
The United States of America is one of the world's super powers. She possesses vast quantities of financial reserves, natural resources and manpower, enabling the United States to accept a large responsibility in assisting the growth and development of the under-privileged nations of the world. 
If one reads the various statements of the Prime Minister of India, the new Prime Minister of Bangla Desh and the Prime Ministers of Ceylon and other countries in the Indian Ocean area one finds that they take a somewhat similar view - that the Soviet Union should accept some responsibility, as the United States does, in assisting the growth and development of the under-privileged nations of that part of the world. I think it will be found, as 1 shall show later, that the United States secs nothing unusual in the fact that another major power seeks to interest itself in the affairs of the Indian Ocean, because that is a prerogative that it exercises in its own right. At page  33  of the report the Committee, which is composed of Government supporters, expresses the view that the USSR must be involved in the Indian Ocean to satisfy her own interests. 
Whilst there would be many people who would like to see the Indian Ocean free from the influence of the major powers, the fact is that if it is the prerogative of the United States it is also the prerogative of the other major powers to become involved in that region. The report goes on to mention that the USSR must be involved in the Indian Ocean to satisfy her own interests because nations form their foreign policy from the national interest. I think any reasonable person would agree that the conclusion reached by the Committee in respect of the United States has some substance. At page  34  the report continues: 
Essentially, the USSR's foreign policy has the following 3 objectives: 
The achievement and the maintenance of a strategic balance with the United States; the extension of Soviet influence both in a military and an economic sense throughout the world in competition with the United States and other Western powers; and the curtailment, as far as possible, of the influence of the PRC. 
All 3 elements are to be found in Soviet policies in the Indian Ocean. The Soviet Union seeks to accomplish these aims in the Indian Ocean by: 
Establishing and cementing cultural, diplomatic, political and economic relations in the littoral countries of tho Ocean; increasing shipping, trade and civil aviation links in the region: providing economic and military aid and assistance to appropriate countries; and maintaining naval and support vessels in the Ocean. 
One does not want to take a position that is for or against as far as the facts are concerned. One has to take the view that what is regarded by the major powers as normal international behaviour should not be regarded in Australia as abnormal or as something that needs to worry the Australian people, lt seems to me that this is tho theme that runs through the whole document when one looks at it objectively, free from the fears that so often have been expressed in debates in this chamber and in the other place. At page  44  of the report there is an assessment about the Soviet presence.  1  was somewhat staggered when  1  listened to  Senator Carrick  speaking in this debate; he almost had mc believing that this Soviet presence constituted a grave threat to the security of this country. However when I read the report in greater detail I came across this comment by the Committee, which as I said is influenced largely by members of the Government, when referring to the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean. 
Its very smallness and vulnerability, especially with the absence of adequate air-cover, does not support the suggestion that it could be an effective fighting force. 

 Senator Carrick went to great lengths to quote from the views of Admiral Peek. The honourable senator seems to think that he has some eminence in this field. 1 read the quotations from Admiral Peek that  Senator Carrick  referred to in his speech. While the Admiral expressed some concern about the Soviet presence in this region he nevertheless came to the conclusion that it was normal international behaviour and that it related to the general security of the Soviet Union in the global conflict which we all agree still exists between some of the major powers. 
I find it somewhat difficult to understand why we should be expressing concern about these developments. I suggest that the Soviet presence is mainly in the western portion of the Indian Ocean. The countries concerned engage from time to time in international conferences at the United Nations and other places and have suggested that the Indian Ocean should be declared a zone of peace: that the major powers should, as far as practicable, leaving aside their own national interests, be encouraged to leave it well alone. The strange thing is that the Australian Government has never given any support to these propositions. It has never come out and said: 'Yes, we agree with the Prime Minister of Ceylon and the Prime Minister of India'. It has not taken the initiative at the United Nations to suggest that there should be a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. The Government having had the opportunity to do this, one is entitled to regard its attitude on this matter with a great deal of suspicion. Even  Mr Gordon  Freeth, who occupied an important position in the Government ranks, said in August 1969, some 12 months after it had been established that there were 4 or 5 ships of the Soviet fleet in the Indian Ocean, that he did not consider that this represented any sort of threat to the security of this nation. The Government may have changed its views but I do not recall any repudiation of  Mr Freeth's  attitude. 
We must come to the conclusion that the Government, having lost the yellow hordes of Asia as an issue, is looking for an election issue. It cannot refer to the yellow hordes any more while our international mentor,  Mr Nixon,  is eating bamboo shoots in Peking and shaking the hand of Mao Tse-tung and others. It cannot talk about the yellow hordes being a threat to the security of this nation - not that they ever were. Nevertheless that was a very convenient cover and it provided propaganda with which to create the atmosphere of hysteria which has characterised Australian politics for the last 15 years or so. The Government cannot use that argument any more and the presence of 4 or 5 Russian ships in the Indian Ocean has provided it with a heaven-sent opportunity. The Government will try to convince the Australian people that this presence constitutes a great menace to us and will try to engender a feeling of fear about it in an attempt to win the 1972 election. [ have taken the trouble to do some research on the United States attitude to the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean. I obtained extracts from hearings of the Sub-Committee on National Security Policy and Scientific Developments of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the United States House of Representatives on 20th, 22nd, 27th and 28th July 1971. During these hearings the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr Zablocki.  asked  Mr Spiers,  Director of the Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, Department of State, the section responsible for the Indian Ocean, about the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean.  Mr Spiers  replied: 
We have some figures of the most recent Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean and as of now it consists of about  4  ships. As of July 20th, the Soviet presence consists of one destroyer, one LST, and  2  Fleet mine sweepers. The Soviet presence fluctuates but that is the most recent reading unless my defence colleagues have something more up-to-date. 

 Mr Spiers' defence colleague,  Mr Pranger,  concurred with this estimate but pointed out that: 
. previous deployments had featured guided missile ships which this latest deployment does not feature. 
The United States Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Elmo Zumwalt Jnr, also spoke about the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean in his testimony before the Sub-Committee of the Committee on Appropriations on 15th March 1971. In a statement for the record Admiral Zumwalt indicated that Soviet naval operations began in earnest in March 1968 shortly after the United Kingdom announced its planned withdrawal from east of Suez. He went on to indicate that there has been an almost continuous presence in the Indian Ocean of 3 to 4 naval combatants deployed at any given time. 
I will refer again to those people but I want to mention someone perhaps even more important than them. At the Committee of Appropriations hearing, the Defence Secretary,  Mr Laird,  when questioned about United States interests in the Indian Ocean, said: 
. the strategic and political interests of the United States in the Indian Ocean are, over the next 5 years at least, of a substantially lower order than it is in either of the other great ocean basins - the Atlantic and the Pacific - both because they border on these and because the States along those shores are for the most part economically, politically and militarily more important than those of the Indian Ocean. 
I shall read from a statement made by  Mr Spiers  who was the first American gentleman to whom I referred. He pointed out: 
We see forward movement and economic development and the movement towards political stability as the best means to promote an environment conducive to our own interests. 
These are the men in the United States concerned with United States interests and, for those who want to use the terminology as they have done with great frequency and emphasis over the years, the interests of the free world. Here we have these men saying that what is required in the east is political stability as the best means to promote an environment conducive to our own interests.  Mr Spiers  states: 
We do not envisage an immediate threat of this nature, however. 
It could well, of course, in the minds of those who wish to concern themselves with some adventure or incident which might take place in some part of the world from which they could draw unnecessary conclusions. I am trying to indicate to the Senate that the appropriate United Slates committees concerned with the interests of the Western World do not see this matter in the light in which members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party see it and in which Government supporters have indicated during this debate that they see it. Elsewhere  Mr Spiers  in summing up the State Department's attitude to the Indian Ocean said: 
We consider that over the next S years our interest (in the Indian Ocean) will be of  a  substantially lower order than those in. either of the great ocean bases . . . Therefore, the appears to be no requirement at this time for us to feel impelled to control, or even decisively influence any part of the Indian Ocean or  its littoral,  given the nature of our interests there and the current level of Soviet and Chinese involvement. 
1 think the honourable senator may be interested in the next quotation.  Mr Spiers  continued: 
We consider, on balance, that our present interests are served by normal commercial, political and military access. 
That is right. It is very interesting that the Democratic Labor Party should now seek to develop a new theory that we should be standing on our own feet. Up until the last year or two the whole of the DLP approach to matters of defence was based on the American alliance. Of course, that happened to coincide with the expressed view of the Government, too. We find that the DLP has lost its international support in the sense that previously the United States was regarded as being a power which would protect us in all circumstances but we have found that America applies those principles which affect its own national interests. There is sufficient evidence in the report to show that in the Indian Ocean a great deal of the world's trade - something in excess of 20 per cent - operates. This trade is passing from one port to another. It is not unusual for the countries concerned in this movement of vessels and goods to have some military contingent available just to indicate their presence in the region. Of course, it will be said by Government speakers and those who follow thai the Australian Labor Party is quite happy to leave Australia in a state of inadequacy as far as defence is concerned. 
In order to put  Senator Carrick  at ease and so that he does not have nightmares about this new menace which he has suddenly discovered 4 years after it arrived in the Indian Ocean, I point out that the Labor Party was aware of this position at its Launceston conference. In accordance with the international standards which I believe have been expressed in the report and in the statements which I have read from American sources the Labor Party had this to say: 
The Labor Party will co-operate in the development of South-East Asia and the Pacific and Indian Ocean areas to strengthen the fabric of peace and freedom and to uphold the principles of democracy, individual liberty ::nd the rule of law and to promote economic well-being and development 
The Labor Party will take initiatives to obtain regional arrangements within the United Nations Charter and to make pacts of friendship, trade, non-aggression and mutual defence with Australia's neighbours in South-East Asia and the Pacific ami Indian Ocean areas. 
The Labor Party will honour all Australia's treaties and alliances which respect the freedom and security of the peoples in the treaty areas and their right to determine their own  forms  of government without external interference. 
Of course, it may well be said by speakers who could follow in the debate that the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean is in contradiction of those principles. But I think the Senate should examine the declarations which were made when the Indian Government and the Soviet Union had discussions and reached agreement on matters affecting peace in that region during 1971. The Prime Ministers of these countries - as distinct from our own Prime Minister whom 1 will admit, to my knowledge, has not made a pronouncement on the matter but will during the coming general election - came to the same conclusion as  Mr Friedheim,  again of the United States, who in Washington on 10th January when he was discussing the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean had something to say which is in accordance with the standpoint of most of the nations in the Indian Ocean region.  Mr Friedheim  was reported as follows: 
According to  Mr Friedheim,  there had been some surveillance between the United States and Soviet forces in the area but 'nothing unusual in the context of what happens all the time around the world1. 
Countries in this area are more affected by the Soviet presence than we are because the ships there are operating in the western part of the Indian Ocean. If these countries can normalise relations with the Soviet Union I think it would be an act of statesmanship if our Prime Minister took the same sort of initiative regarding the Soviet Union as President Nixon is taking in his current discussions with the leaders of the People's Republic of China. Let us not have more doses of anti-communism and the hysteria we have seen expressed over the years. Let us put aside the fear and fantasy which has plagued this Parliament for such a long time during any rational debate on foreign affairs and defence. 
Let not the motivation of those of us on this side of the House be misrepresented. We are just as concerned with the defence of this country as any other normal person would be. But we take issue on this matter because we do not come to the same conclusions as the Government does. We do not wish to base our policies and our attitudes on fear and on policies that are obviously outmoded in the 1970s. If it is possible for President Nixon to take the sort of initiatives that he has taken in order to wind down international tension and to leave aside all the political and ideological differences that obviously exist between countries, does not the future of mankind rest in its statesmen being big enough and bold enough to find what common ground exists between nations so that our civilisation may survive? 
Our world in 1972 is vastly different from the world of 1939 v/hen World War II broke out. The 2 major powers have recognised that they must put aside certain weapons of mass destruction if civilisation is to survive. When we look at the debates that normally take place in our Parliament we see that we are still in the days of gunboat diplomacy. A country does something and, instead of recognising that it is now competent for countries to behave normally, we immediately react as we would have done many years past. If it is competent to express the view that China and the United States of America can find the means to live in peace, I think that surely in Australia we can adopt a much more mature attitude instead of our normal behavioural pattern. After all, the Soviet Union has a quite minor presence in the Indian Ocean. We do urge members of the Government to keep the debate in a low key and to begin to learn some of the lessons of history. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that in 1953 when average weekly earnings were $32.70, the taxation deduction allowed for a spouse or dependant was $260 per annum? Is it true that today when the average weekly earnings have exceeded $90, the concession is only $312 per annum? Would it not be consistent and in the interest of the family man that the deduction should be about $750 per annum? Is it because of such obvious anomalies that the Government has ordered the taxation inquiry? Will the Minister assure the public that such inequalities will be removed following the inquiry into the taxation system now taking place? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAgain, this question rests on an individual basis and suggests that there are inequities between the increase in incomes and the constancy of deductions. I can only say that T will have to refer this matter to the Treasurer because I think that the question deserves a reply on a much broader canvas than .1 can give at question time. 
I ask  Senator Cotton  a question in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Does the Minister agree that all citizens of the Commonwealth over the age of 21 years should be afforded a vote in the Federal elections? In these circumstances, what steps, if any, have been taken to enrol several thousand Aborigines in the Northern Territory so that they may participate in the forthcoming Federal elections? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary, inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree to which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 My question is directed to the Attorney-General as Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Will the Attorney-General draw to the attention of the Postmaster-General the fact that a young professional boxer was almost killed in a bout which was shown on Channel 7 on 31st January and that he is still in a semi-conscious state in a Melbourne hospital after being in a coma for several weeks? As the Australian Broadcasting Control Board censors violence in many television programmes, will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General to take steps to prevent the horrifying possibility that a boxer will be killed in such a televised bout, thus causing great shock and dismay to a great number of viewers? 
Has the personal decision of the Minister for Civil Aviation to permit the Concorde's entry into Aus tralia caused considerable community con*cern, particularly in the areas close to Mascot and Tullamarine? Is it a fact that he has assured the Australian people that the aircraft will fly only over remote areas of Austalia on route to Sydney and Melbourne? Has he taken into consideration the fact that large numbers of Aborigines and many species of wildlife inhabit the many remote areas of Australia and that they would be seriously affected by the sonic boom? In the circumstances did he discuss the likely injurious effects to Aborigines and the environment with the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts before he made his decision? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation and refer him to a question relating to the Concorde aircraft which I asked yesterday and which appears on page 908 of Hansard. I do not believe the Minister replied satisfactorily to the question. In a Press release dated 22nd March concerning the possible atmospheric effects of supersonic, aircraft the Minister stated that the Government had always emphasised that it would make any decision on the Concorde or supersonic jet aircraft in the light of all the expert evidence available. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the pioneering work of  Dr H.  Johnstone of Berkeley University, the decision of the Canadian Parliament to prohibit supersonic flights and a recent scientific conference in Massachusetts, United States of America, have all contradicted the conclusions of the Australian Academy of Science in relation to the Concorde aircraft? I appreciate that today a question was asked of the Minister, by  Senator Young  from South Australia. But I say: How can these views be reconciled with the reply given by the Minister yesterday that the matter of the projected Concorde visit is, as stated by the Minister: 'still under careful and detailed study' when he has already decided to allow the Concorde to visit Australia? Can I take it from the reply that he has given to  Senator Young  today that the Concorde will be permitted to produce sonic booms during its visit to Australia? 
Does the AttorneyGeneral concede that there are great numbers of young men who have not registered for national service? Does he know of any instance where political influence has been used to relieve any eligible youth of his obligations, as the Government sees them, under the National .Service Act? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral explain the circumstances whereby it was necessary for 16 Commonwealth policemen to carry out the recent arrest of one University of Sydney student? Is it a fact that the police entered the house of  Mr Lyn  Regan of Glebe at 8.30 a.m. on 2nd May 1972 by forcing open a back window, one policeman climbing through this window and opening the back door to facilitate the entry of other officers? Did all the members of this unusually large contingent of policemen have warrants to enter these premises and harass not only the accused but also his fellow residents? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether it is customary for some Commonwealth policemen to involve themselves in party political matters when making an arrest? Is he aware, that one such Commonwealth policeman, when arresting  Mr Regan  in his bed at 8.30 a.m. on 2nd May 1972, is alleged to have accused  Mr Regan  of being a nigger-lover and a supporter of aliens - obviously referring to the fact that  Mr Matteson,  who escaped from custody at the University of Sydney, is an American citizen - and to have said that if his crowd got into power the yellow bastards from the north would take over Australia? As I am sure that the Attorney-General would disagree with such sentiments, will he dissociate the Government from such racist views and ensure that all officers under his control are instructed not to intrude their personal views in actions involving the arrest of any citizen? 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall my question to him on 7th September 1971 and his subsequent reply outlining the decision of the Government to defer  Mr Gorton's  scheme to assist in the provision of child care centres? The reply indicatd that the state of the economy influenced the Government's decision in 1971. I ask the Minister: In view of the Prime Minister's proposals at the moment to stimulate the economy, will he agree to raise again the question of child care centres with the Cabinet so that the Commonwealth can play a meaningful role in the immediate provision of these essential community facilities? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI could forgive  Senator Gietzelt  for asking this question which strictly seeks an opinion on a matter of policy. In that sense, it is not one about which I would wish to say anything further. He has asked for a view on Government policy and I am not in a position to answer such an inquiry at question time. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether the Sydney Airport Noise Abatement Committee is still functioning. Is the Minister aware that local government bodies in the region have again criticised the volume of aircraft noise still affecting the amenity of the 250,000 people in the vicinity of the airport some of whom are in the flight paths? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the progress that has been made in abating aircraft noise which, in the opinion of the local authorities, has not improved in the 3 years that this problem has been under the consideration of the Noise Abatement Committee? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Deputy President.  In view of the notice of motion given by  Senator Hannan  to ban 'The Little Red Schoolbook' in territories under the control of the Commonwealth, will you take steps to see that a copy of this book is made available to honourable senators so that they can make a judgment on it based on objective facts and reading, not a judgment based on prejudice, bigotry, wowserism or similar bias? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  1  shall give consideration to the request. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral received a number of submissions from individuals and organisations requesting changes in divorce procedures in Aus- tralia? Does he agree that the cost of divorce proceedings is beyond the reach of many persons and that considerable hardship and suffering still exist in this field despite amendments to the law in recent years? Will he make representations to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to expedite its consideration of this matter as in many cases justice delayed is justice denied? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware of the attempts by United Kingdom monopoly groups to take over a major Melbourne retail firm, if so, (a) does the Treasurer acknowledge that almost daily the financial columns of the Press report similar takeover bids by United States and United Kingdom combines, and that Australia is fast reaching the stage where most of our own indigenous companies will be swallowed by foreign groups, (b) is this sort of overseas capital inflationary, and (c) has the Government given any consideration to enacting legislation which will protect the Australian interest in' companies threatened by overseas takeover bids. 
The National Service Act has been a matter of great contention in our community for some time. Of course, there has been a great deal of opposition to the selective approach which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  has adopted in this matter. I asked the AttorneyGeneral a question on this matter on 27th April. The question is in 2 parts but I shall refer only to the portion that deals with the discussion this evening. I asked: 
Does the Attorney-General concede that there are great numbers of young men who have not registered for national service? 
In answer to that question  Senator Greenwood,  in his inimitable style, said:   . . I am not aware that there are great numbers of young men who have refused to do national service. This is an allegation constantly repeated notwithstanding constant denials made by the Minister for Labour and National Service and myself inside and outside the Parliament. Still the allegation is persisted in. One wonders how many times one has to state the facts. All I say to anybody who would challenge what I have said and what the Minister for Labour and National Service has said is: 'Give to me or the Minister for Labour and National Service the name of any person who  has  not registered for national service or who has not complied with the Act and we shall indicate whether the statements are correct'. 
What are the facts in this case? It is a very simple operation. Robert William Wood, a young man, came to Canberra to seek an interview with the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General was not able to meet him, I presume because of the exigencies of the Attorney-General's office. The young man then indicated that he would be outside Parliament at 1 p.m. It is true that the mass media became aware that Wood was to surrender himself here. The debate that has subsequently taken place in the Senate tonight has somewhat sickened me. I have been disturbed by the manner in which honourable senators opposite have endevoured to denigrate the persons concerned, particularly  Mr Chris  Shanley, an innocent party in the whole proceeding. It has already been drawn to the attention of the Senate that there are a number of serious discrepancies in the statement which the Attorney-General issued at 6 o'clock this evening and which of course was repeated in tonight's news broadcasts.  Senator Turnbull  drew attention to this passage in the statement: 
Subsequently this person was introduced to Inspector Headland of the Commonwealth Police. On speaking to Headland, this person said that he was noi Wood but  Shanley 
The young man, who I think we can probably assume is a friend of Wood, was seeking to arrange an interview between Wood and the Attorney-General. This is turned into something of a conspiracy, an impersonation or a diversionary tactic, to use the words employed by honourable senators opposite. Is it unusual for a person to arrange an interview for another person? The Attorney-General concedes the following in his statement: 
At approximately 1 p.m. a young man who gave his name as Wood introduced himself to an attendant at Parliament House . . . 
As far as I am able to establish, the attendants are within the precincts of this House. I believe that a new principle has been established when Commonwealth police come into Kings Hall and seek to apprehend or arrest a person. I am not versed in the procedures under police regulations, but I understand that a policeman asks you for your name and, if he is not satisfied with the answer given, he tries to establish your identity by some other means. He will ask you to accompany him or charge you with some offence. In this instance the Attorney-General has conceded that Inspector Headland did not carry out the proper procedure. According to  Mr Shanley,  he was not introduced to Inspector Headland. Inspector Headland asked him whether he was Wood and Shanley said that he was not - that he was Chris Shanley. This is admitted in the Attorney-General's statement. Surely the inspector must be regarded as a senior person in the Commonwealth Police Force. He was told by a young person that that person's name was Chris Shanley. When Inspector Headland asked Shanley for his address, Shanley walked away to be followed then by Inspector Headland for many paces. The inspector followed Shanley out onto the patio and to the front of the building. Are we to believe  Senator Rae's  account of what he saw happen? I am challenging the veracity of the paragraph in the statement which reads: 
Headland and  Shanley  left Parliament House and moved across the road . . . 
Either  Senator Rae  is misled or those who have given  Senator Greenwood  information have misled the Attorney-General. It is a pretty serious state of affairs when a citizen of this country within the precincts of this Parliament, doing no harm, committing no offence, saying nothing of a disorderly nature, is apprehended by Inspector Headland, subsequently taken outside the building and placed in a police car.  Mr Shanley  on several occasions, not only in the precincts of this House but also in front of the building, told Inspector Headland that he had made a mistake. He told the inspector that he was not William Robert Wood but was in fact Chris Shanley and offered to produce identification in substantiation of his statement. This senior member of the Commonwealth Police Force nevertheless called in 2 other Commonwealth policemen, hustled the young man into a police car and took him away to Kingston for about 35 minutes. 
Never at any stage did Shanley agree to go with the arresting policemen. Never at any stage did those policemen seek information in respect of this incident. Never at any stage did those police give any details of an offence that Shanley is alleged to have committed. I think we can take it from the fact that the police subsequently released him that the police realised that they had, in the words of the AttorneyGeneral, bungled the whole incident. They are his words, not mine. I am sure that most honourable senators will agree with the Attorney-General's description. The Attorney-General said on page  2  of his: statement: 
While being questioned by police,  Shanley  admitted he had gone into Parliament House and said he was Wood so that police would concentrate upon him. 
This was said to be a diversionary tactic to get the police away from Parliament House. I think the Senate should know that  Mr Shanley  has subsequently issued a, statement in which he said: 'This is not at all the case. As broadcast on the television, stations this evening I was forcibly taken, away by  2  policemen and said in the process, "My name is Christopher Shanley my address is  16  Belmore Street, Enmore,  2042",  that I had a university authority for identification in my pocket which I would, produce if I was allowed to do so.' Those of us who saw the television programme; can say that that substantially is in accordance with the facts. The AttorneyGeneral has allowed himself to be misled and has issued a false statement. A transcript of that television broadcast will be available and one will be able to hear  Mr Shanley  attempting to set the record' straight in respect of himself. However, he, went on to say: 'I was not allowed u&gt; produce this identification. The Commonwealth Police also paid no attention to numerous other persons who informed, them that they had arrested the wrong person'.  Mr Shanley  attempted to tell the police, and other people in the vicinity of; this incident attempted to tell the policemen, but the police, in their bullheaded way, ignored all the obvious evidence and continued with this arrest. 
It is a very serious situation when a citizen of this country can be apprehended in this way within the environs of the Parliament and taken away in a police car. Incidentally, I am told that the driver of the police car was so involved emotionally in this affair that the vehicle was backed into another car. I notice that that was not mentioned in the report. This throws into relief the fact that the evidence which the 
Attorney-General put before the Senate tonight is open to very serious challenge and doubt. 
Never at any stage did the inspector or the arresting constables show any warrant or issue any summons against  Mr Shanley.  What would have happened to  Mr Shank,  if he had attempted to defend himself in these circumstances or if he had attempted to remonstrate with the police? He would have been charged with resisting the police. Surely it is a distasteful state of affairs when an innocent citizen is put in the position of having to passively accept a bullheaded approach by Commonwealth Police who, in the face of all the evidence, ignored the fact that the young man was attempting to establish his own identity and who subsequently took him away in a police car. The Attorney-General smiles about this. He says: 'Well,  Mr Shanley  is a young man of  20  or  21  years of age and he has his civil rights'. Is that what this is all about? Is this what the game is all about? Does a person have to go to a court of law to establish the fundamental rights of a citizen in this country? 
No evidence has been produced to show that  Mr Shanley  did anything wrong.  Senator Rae  was prepared to say, without evidence, that  Mr Shanley  deliberately impersonated Wood. The honourable senator professes to be trained in the art of the law. He operates as a solicitor in some parts of Australia. Yet without evidence he asserted that there was a deliberate impersonation. While sitting in this chamber on many occasions I have been staggered at the way in which a number of honourable senators, senior men who allegedly have been trained in the noble art of the law, have sought to denigrate and destroy the reputation of citizens of this country without their having any opportunity of defending themselves. When I heard the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy,  refer to some of these matters during a debate, last year I think I was somewhat disturbed that the AttorneyGeneral could refer to people i:i this fashion. I saw him do it again this year. I saw him and some of his colleagues do it again this evening.  Senator Rae  described this young man as a tuppeny-halfpenny person. Those were the words he used to describe either William Robert Wood or Chris Shanley 
What are the circumstances? Other honourable senators went on to say that this was a university prank. I would like to be able to turn back the pages of history to see the sort of pranks that those 2 honourable senators got up to when they went to university. The situation is that a young man comes to Canberra and voluntarily surrenders his liberty for a principle. He believes that the Commonwealth Government has evaded its responsibilities. Robert William Wood, of 42 Dick Street, Chippendale, failed to register in July 1969. This relates to the question I asked the honourable senator some 6 weeks or so ago. Wood was prosecuted and fined for failing to register. He did not pay the fine. Subsequently he went to Bankstown Hospital and refused to submit to an examination. He heard no more about it. He is a very religious young man who holds very strong views about war. He came to Canberra with one of his friends and sought to do what our Attorney-General said he should do - present himself to the Attorney-General and say: 'I believe that the Government is not carrying out its responsibilities in respect to the National Service Act'. 
What has happened? There has been a false arrest and an innocent man's reputation has been besmirched. Supporters and members of the Government sitting in this chamber have attempted to destroy the reputation of a young man by innuendo and the use of words which I think ill become a member of this Parliament. It is very easy for members of the Government, its supporters, and supporters of the Government's policy on the National Service Act and Vietnam, to be so critical of these young men who are prepared, because of their consciences and their convictions, to go through the tortures of a court case and be imprisoned for their beliefs. I do not regard them as tuppenny-ha'penny citizens-, I regard them as the salt of the earth and as people who have the courage of their convictions. 
I often see in Liberal youth organisations young men and women who are not in uniform but who are prepared to support a policy that puts people into uniform against their will to undergo national service. There are voluntary agencies through which these young Liberal supporters can serve as part of the armed forces. They say that they support and respect those policies. I believe that the young men, and sometimes the women, who demonstrate and express their opposition to the National Service Act deserve the gratitude of this nation, not the denigration that they get in this place. 
It seems that in relation to these matters truth is the last consideration. It seems that the Attorney-General is prepared to jump to hasty conclusions. He is prepared to listen to the advice of his officers. I think the record subsequently will show that that advice has been wrong and that the Senate has been misled, as the nation has been misled, by the comments made in the Attorney-General's statement that was released this evening. The Government has had abundant opportunity to show that it is not adopting a policy of selective national service. It has had abundant opportunity to act against those people who have encouraged young men not to register for national Service. A number of the 1,000 or more of our leading citizens who signed the statement of defiance were subsequently arrested and charged, summonsed and fined. The fines were never collected. There are in our community today many young men who have not registered, or who have registered and have refused to attend for call-up or in some way or other refused to comply with the National Service Act. 
I asked a question on 27th April. I think it might be shown that, whilst there might not be thousands of young men involved, certainly the numbers of men who are not being prosecuted are more than the Attorney-General was prepared to concede. The reason they are not being prosecuted is that the Government does not wish to pursue these policies. It realises that they no longer have the enthusiastic support of the Australian people. Chris Shanley is entitled to an apology, not only from  Senator Greenwood  but also from  Senator Rae,  for the statements they made this evening about him. I would prefer to see them be big enough to make that apology than force a young man without resources to go to a civil jurisdiction to seek justice in this matter. I believe that the police have bungled the whole incident. It is not a matter of denigrating the police. I have no desire to denigrate the police. But, when they act, let them act in accordance with their responsibilities and treat every citizen in this country as a person who is innocent until he is proven guilty. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Why has the Government decided to change and shorten the health warning that is to be a part of radio and television advertisements for cigarettes by reducing the length of the warning from 5 to 3 seconds and weakening the force of the warning statement? Has the impact of this important step to warn against cigarette smoking been greatly reduced merely because members of the Australian Country Party have complained that rural television and radio stations would lose revenue if the original warning were to be enforced? Will the Minister state which is the most important - the need to warn about the health hazard of cigarettes, which kill 10,000 Australians a year, or the partial economic welfare of rural broadcasting stations? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMr  President,  there is on today's notice paper reference to a Bill being introduced in this place by the Minister representing the Postmaster-General relating to this issue. ] do not know whether the honourable senator's question is strictly out of order,  Sir, but  it would certainly, be out of order in the sense of the law of anticipation. 
I oppose the Bill for a number  of  reasons which ] will outline. The Bill is supposed to facilitate industrial relations and to create the essential harmony between labour and management that supporters of the Government and the Democratic Labor Party have made the theme of their addresses in this chamber and in the  Other  place. It is supposed to promote goodwill in industry and to minimise the legal involvement and technicalities that have been characteristic of the Conciliation  and  Arbitration Act. I am pleased to follow in this debate my former colleague  Senator Kane.  He attempted to draw out the same sorts of bogeys that have been characteristic  of  the DLP since its formation, ignoring all the history of the trade union movement and the concrete application of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in Australia. 1 do not think  any  honourable senator would disagree when I say that the trade union movement has had a marked and influential effect upon the economic and social development of Australia. If this is accepted as a starting point we probably need then to examine the formative years of  the  trade union movement. To that end Government supporters would be well advised to read the complete history of English trade unionism written by Sidney and Beatrice Webb, the standard work on  the  trade union movement. Those 2 writers traced the development of the trade union movement. They were able to show the connnection between the early craft guilds of the 17th and 18th centuries through the Middle ages. Even in those days standards were set which were not unlike the standards on which the modern trade unions operate. They were for the maintenance of a standard of life and they agreed that they would combine their efforts to this purpose. 
It is true that the early craft guilds comprised only the artisans who, in that period of history, included the workers and the masters. It is interesting that in those days the membership of the craft guilds was compulsory. As time progressed and capitalism began to develop - I am referring particularly to English conditions - the guilds of the yeomen and journeymen began to develop and the interests of the master and the worker began to take different forms. As industrial development began to emerge from the medieval system of production and as it has developed over the years until today when modern capitalism is the principal feature of production, the content of the trade union movement has changed. 
Today we live in modern capitalist society based on large scale production. We have to contend with the new phenomenon of the multi-national corporation. Members of the working class are dependent upon the employer for their livelihood. The world is now a single market even though there are attempts to alter that. All this has evolved more or less in the 20th cen.turey. It is a modern development. On the Australian scene the Conciliation and Arbitration Act has been, as some speakers have said, not only a barometer but in many respects has stood out as a beacon in relationships between employers and employees. 
Having skipped through history 1 think we are entitled to see why it is that the Government is continually concerning itself with the affairs of the trade union movement. Once again the Government has put before the Parliament legislation on matters appertaining to the trade union movement and its members. In point of fact, in the period of 22i years that this Government has unfortunately been running the affairs of this country it has passed 185 Acts or amendments relating to the trade unions. Since federation and the establishment of the early legislation, it has been amended 52 times. Of that number, 23 amendments were associated with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I was a little amused by the contribution of  Senator Carrick  last evening when he attempted to show some differences between the attitudes of the Australian Council of Trade Unions under the current  president, Mr Robert  Hawke, and those displayed when it was led by  Mr Albert  Monk, because most of those 23 amendments occurred when  Mr Albert  Monk was  president  of the ACTU. I do not suggest that all these legislative acts by the Government were necessarily in total against the interests of the trade union movement, but in a great number of cases - I could almost say the majority of cases - these amendments were carried out in opposition to the united view of the trade union movement. 
The Government is consistently amending the Act. It has consistently changed the means by which it can intervene and interfere in the internal affairs of the trade unions. As  Senator Murphy  rightly pointed out, the Government is of course following a discriminatory policy. It does not utilise the powers that lie within its functions as far as other corporations are concerned. Rather does it concentrate its power upon the trade union movement. It seeks therefore to put limitations on the freedom of action of unionists and it is not hard to understand why the trade union movement reacts towards the Government as it does - why it opposes the Government on most if not all of its policies and supports the policies and activities of the Australian Labor Party. 
For as long as trade unionism has been on the agenda of history it has had to fight for its survival. One does not have to go back very far into English history to remember the Combination Acts, the Tolpuddle Martyrs, and in our own history, the Eureka Stockade and the strikes and struggles of so many people in the 1880s and 1890s. In fact, the whole history of the trade union movement is a history of struggle against government and employer interference. It is understandable that  Senator Carrick  would be concerned about the issues of the class war, as he put it in his contribution last evening -  Senator 
Kane referred to it today - because there is a conflict of interest. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  have each referred to the differences of opinion and conflicts that exist between employer and employee. 
One does not find in this Bill or in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself any provisions that represent an attempt by the Government to impose restrictions on the rights of the employer. Rather, the restrictions that are imposed always seek to hamstring and retard the activities of the trade union movement. Over the many years that I have been associated with the trade union movement, I have noticed the struggles of ils members against the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government is now attempting to write into the legislation such provisions as would make all unions resort to taking a postal ballot in respect to any question facing their members. I think it can be established that the objectives and policy of the Government aided and abetted by the Democratic Labor Party, are to restrict the rights and activities of the trade union movement. 
In his second reading speech the AttorneyGeneral used industrial unrest and what he described as serious wage induced inflation as pretexts to justify the many amendments proposed in the Bill. Can it be taken seriously that the Government really believes that the work force can be blamed for the serious industrial unrest that the Government claims is in existence in this country? I am surprised that any responsible person would adopt that point of view. If we look at the role of the industrial court and the role of the trade union movement in recent years, we will find that every gain, every increase in salary and every improvement in conditions have been a result of the activity of the trade union movement. Most of the gains have been achieved in spite of, or if not in spite of, then with the consent of the arbitration procedures. If we examine the composition of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, I think it must be conceded that any trade union organisation and particularly the Australian Council of Trade Unions, that has been able to achieve any gains for its membership from that august body must have produced  strong arguments to convince it of the justice of union claims. I would be the last person to attack the composition of the Commission, except to say that every one of its members has had an association with the employers in one way or another, many of them having been advocates before the Commission representing various employer organisations. If we accept that the tribunal is somewhat influenced by conservative persons who, in the main, have spent most of their working life representing the views of employer organisations, it must be conceded that the substantial gains made by the trade union movement are a tribute to the quality of its advocacy. It is remarkable that the trade union movement has been able to overcome some of that conservatism and has induced members of the Commission to grant some justice in respect to wage claims. 
In order to rebut the points made by  Senator Carrick  last evening I will refer to some statements made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in a speech in Melbourne at an employer's function on 2nd March. He referred to a number of the matters that are before the Senate in this Bill. One has only to read his speech to appreciate that the views he expressed on 2nd March were radically altered when he made his second reading speech to Parliament in the other place on 26th April. He chose his own theme. Of course, at that time the DLP was being very eloquent on the question of amalgamations. Members of the DLP had suddenly found an issue that they could use to whip the Government. They had found another whipping boy.I will refer only to the portions of the speech that are germane to what 1 want to say. The Minister said: 
Four main arguments have been put forward to support the view that the Government should intervene to halt the present amalgamation processes. 
Honourable senators will know that he was referring to the proposed amalgamation of the metal trades unions into the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. He continued: 
There should have been ballots of the members of the three unions conducted by a public official such as the Commonwealth Electoral Officer; the amalgamation should have been approved by a majority of all the members of the unions - not by a simple majority of the members voting in the ballots: the amalgamation would bring about a large communist dominated union possessing excessive power; 
That is reminiscent of  Senator Kane's  speech today - that such an amalgamation would be destructive of the arbitration system. 
My intention is merely to deal in brief with the criticism that has been levelled at the Government for not intervening  in  the amalgamation. 
I put it that the criticism was coming from the DLP. The minister went on: 
The results of the ballots showed that almost 86 per cent of those voting in the AEU ballot favoured amalgamation, 73 per cent in the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society, and almost 70 per cent  in  the Sheet Metal Workers Union. there  is  no provision  in  the legislation for officially conducted ballots to be held  in  respect of union de-registration- 
That was one of the procedures to be followed in an amalgamation - 
Basically the philosphy of the current and previous governmentsin relation to organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that they are voluntary organisations and the Government should not interfere in their affairs unless it can be demonstrated that there are or are likely to be dishonest practices which would prejudice the rights of members or groups of members. 
Thus, it makes provision for what are commonly called 'court controlled ballots' for office bearers when requested by the Committee for Management of a union or by a specific number of its members. However, these are not mandatory and the great majority of union elections are conducted by the unions themselves. 
This is relevant to the suggestion which has been made that there is a history of 'ballot riggings' in these unions. The record does not bear this out and it is supported, I believe, by the fact that there has not been a request from the membership of any of the 3 unions for  a  'court controlled ballot' for a considerable number of years. 
The second proposition is that before an amalgamation should be permitted 50+ per cent of the total membership should vote in favour.I am not impressed by this argument. It should be noted that because a ballot would have to be  a  postal ballot and voting is not and could not, for a number of practical reasons, be made compulsory, it would be virtually impossible to get anywhere near a100 per cent vote. 
The Minister continued: 
The 50-plus per cent proposition implies that  a  substantial majority of those who do not register a vote can be said to be opposed to the proposal for amalgamation. This is a doubtful thesis. It is more likely that most of those who strongly oppose the proposal will vote and that the majority of those who fail to vote are not sufficiently moved against the proposition - they merely acquiesce. 
He went on to say:  lt is also pertinent to note that in federal parliamentary elections it is not required that a candidate must obtain the support of 50-plus per cent of all voters on the voting role to be elected. 
In New South Wales - I cannot speak for the other States - since the Liberal PartyCountry Party took office, compulsory voting in respect of local government elections has been abolished. I suppose that there is some consistency between the attitude of the New South Wales Minister for Local Government,  Mr Morton,  and the view that was expressed by  Mr Lynch  in his talk. The situation in New South Wales now is that in many local government areas people are elected to govern the affairs of local communities on the vote of 11 per cent to a maximum of 35 per cent of those eligible to vote in those areas. 
The lessons from this action are crystal clear. This approach is unnecessary. The Government is now seeking to amend the legislation and to hamstring the attempts of unions that wish to amalgamate. I think that it is worth while recounting a little more about what  Mr Lynch  had to say on 2nd March. He spoke of the fact that there are 300 unions in Australia, most of them very smalt. He stated:  lt could Facilitate the functioning of the arbitration system  and  relations generally between employers and unions if this number of unions decreases. I know of situations in which employers have sal across the table with no fewer than IS unions in relation to one issue. Government departments have had this experience. 
As this legislation sets out to create a position in which amalgamation of unions is almost impossible we are entitled to ask why the Minister for Labour and National Service has changed his point of view. He has said thai the effective result of introducing a 50 per cent plus voting pattern would bc to put a stop to amalgamations including amalgamations of employer bodies. Of course, this is the only time when he has referred to the amalgamation of employers. 1 wonder what caused this change in his point of view? We need look for further evidence only at his ministerial statement, presented in Parliament on 7th December last year. Again it was on the matter of industrial relations. Referring to compulsory unionism, he said: 
Earlier in my statement, I indicated the Government's grave concern at the recent and continuing efforts by some trade unions to bring about compulsory unionism in this country. Th» Government, and 1 believe, the community are opposed to compulsory unionism. We will amend the provisions of the Act relating to registered organisations to prevent unions from enforcing compulsory unionism. 
Here we have 2 statements from the Minister for Labour and National Service, both of which, in the context of the legislation before the Senate, show that he is a man who speaks with more than one tongue. I wonder why? I think the Parliament is entitled to draw some conclusions. 
When this parliamentary session began, in late February, the Australian Democratic Labor Party was being outspokenly critical of the Government. It was making friendly overtures to members of the Australian Labor Party in the Parliament. Generally it was making statements in debate here and in other places to the effect that the Government was doomed in the forthcoming election. We know that these matters were discussed in the trade union forum. As  Senator Bishop  has pointed out in his contribution and by way of interjection, the trade union movement was united in its voice on this legislation. There was no opposition within the trade union movement to amalgamation. It was the DLP that was pressing for compulsory unionism. 
The DLP was flexing its muscles. Statements appeared in national newspapers of conferences between the DLP and members of the Government. I wonder what significance there is in a statement that appeared in the Brisbane 'Courier Mail' of 25th April of this year in which  Senator Gair  said: 
Democratic Labor Party, preferences will be recommended io Liberal and Country Party candidates, as a general rule, at this year's Federal election. 
That was quite contrary to what was being said in this place. I think that one is entitled to draw the conclusion that the DLP twisted the arm of the Government to get the Government to change its attitude in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It persuaded the Minister for Labour and National Service who, after all, is the Minister responsible for industrial relations, to change his attitude to and to drop his position on compulsory unionism. He changed his attitude in respect of union amalgamations and many other matters to which I have referred. 
Subsequently this legislation initiated by the Minister has been brought before this House with the enthusiastic approval of the members of the Democratic Labor Party. The legislation seeks to continue Government interference in the trade union movement. It seems that the DLP has been able to blackmail the Government, stand over the Government to bring about a situation in which the trade unions are pawns in the power struggles taking place for the control of the political destinies of this country. 
When we examine the Government's case we see that it expresses a great deal of concern for democracy. It has taken the Government 23 years to reach the point where it is concerned for the democratic control of the trade unions. I find the parrotting of these statements by the Government a nauseating experience. Not only is the Government insincere in respect of the democratic control of the trade union movement; it can also be shown and will it be shown by Opposition speakers that the main aim of the Government is to weaken the capacity of the trade union movement to defend its rights and its members. It is equally crystal clear that the Government and its members have absolutely no understanding of the worker and his organisations, the various trade unions. Here the Government states, as the Minister has said, that this Bill pays particular attention to the provisions of the Act which aim at ensuring democratic processes and affect membership control in organisations registered under the Act. 
Let us consider the existing provisions of the Act which this Bill seeks to amend. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act was amended by the Menzies administration in the 1950s to provide that a member of a union could exercise his rights in accordance with the Act to receive financial assistance to challenge actions taken by trade unions. We know that the Democratic Labor Party hunted throughout Australia to find somebody to act as a decoy by being game enough to go before the Commonwealth Industrial Court and seek to prevent the amalgamation of the 3 metal trades unions. It found such a person, a  Mr Drinkwater  Jnr. He is the son of a former Democratic Labor Party candidate in a parliamentary election. He was a member of the Sheet Metal Union con cerned and had been appointed by the union as a delegate to the Newcastle Labor Council. But he failed to carry out his responsibilities as a member and elected official of that union in that he did not attend the Council meetings. So he bad to be replaced. 
Subsequently he left the industry and became a member of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia in that area, but he worked in a different classification. He was the man who, when put in the witness box, knew nothing of the procedures that had been followed for the past 2 years by the 3 unions which, I think it must be said, have carried out their responsibilities in accordance with the Act, the law and their rules and regulations. Of course, we all know what happened. His challenge against the legality of the amalgamation proposals was dismissed unanimously. The taxpayers of this country are now called upon to pay that man's legal costs. The members of the DLP did not put their money where their mouth was. They expected the taxpayers of this country to pay. Indeed, the legislation worsens the position by permitting others who have a disruptive role to play in the trade union movement to take advantage of certain legal situations in order to weaken the fibre of the trade union movement. This Bill seeks to widen the breach and to permit even further disruption by politically oriented members who really have no interest in the welfare of the industrial organisation to which they belong but are prepared to be lackeys of a minority political party. 
As I started out to say, I find it a nauseating experience to hear the Government talking about the need for democratic procedures. If the Government is interested in democracy, I suggest that it should apply democratic principles right across the board. Let us look at one of the organisations to which this Government gives responsibility in respect of the disbursement of the funds of the Government and contributors to medical and hospital benefits schemes. I shall deal with only one such organisation because time will not permit me to deal with more than one. Let us look at the New South Wales branch of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. The Government claims to be inter- ested in democratic procedures and the right of members of organisations to determine their own affairs. The New South Wales branch of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia is probably the largest organisation in Australia. According to Government statistics made available only this week by the Commonwealth Department of Health, the membership of the organisation in New South Wales as at 30th June 1971 - this is as recent a statistic as we can get - was 712,717. This organisation handles scores of millions of dollars worth of contributors' funds and Government funds in respect of medical expenses incurred by those contributors. 
It is interesting to read the Articles of Association of this organisation just to see how democratic it is. Each year the Commonwealth gives hundreds of millions of dollars to this organisation for disbursement to its contributors. As at 29th October 1964 - of course, at that time we had Liberal-Country Party governments in both Canberra and New South Wales - the by-laws of that organisation stated: 
There shall be 2 classes of members of the Association namely medical members and contributory members. 
The subscribers to the Memorandum of Association who are medical members and such other persons as shall be admitted to membership in accordance with these Articles and none others shall be members of the Association . . . 
This organisation has a membership of 712,717. I think we can assume that this figure includes contributors as well as medical members. The Articles of Association continue: 
For the purpose of registration the number of members of the Association is declared to be unlimited. 
All legally qualified medical practitioners reg istered in any State of the Commonwealth . . . shall be eligible for election as medical members of the Association. 
It is interesting to note that the contributing members of this organisation - that is, those people who put their money into it: the rank and file people about whom we hear so much - are not entitled to attend or vote at meetings. Clause 18 of the Articles of Association reads: 
Contributory members of the Association shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting of the Association or to receive notice thereof. 
Here we have an organisation which embraces the whole of the community, which disburses contributors' funds as well as Commonwealth funds and in which the contributory members - that is, the membership - have no say in the administration. Clause 19 of the Articles of Association reads: 
The Council shall be entitled to decline to accept any application for contributory membership of the Association without assigning any reason therefor. 
In the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill the Government is saying that trade unions, as corporate bodies, should be subject to certain government interference and certain government supervision, so that the members of the organisations shall have their rights protected. When we consider the application of that principle cross the board and see the manner in which it is applied to one of the largest organisations in Australia - I am led to believe that this position is somewhat similar to that of organisations in other States and the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales - we see that the rights of the members of the organisation are deliberately restricted by its rules. There is no restriction on the rights of members of trade unions. Members of trade unions have full and equal rights to participate in the management and affairs of the organisations. They have the right to stand for office, to determine policy, to attend conferences, and to vote and elect their officials. But in this wonderful organisation - the Medical Benefits Fund in New South Wales - the membership have no rights whatsoever. There is not a member of the Senate or the House of Representatives who, at some time or other, has not had to take up with the respective State branches of the Medical Benefits Fund problems associated with the interpretation of the rules of that organisation. 
It is interesting to look at the way in which this oligarchy - that is the only word that describes the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia - operates. Its general council consists entirely of doctors, and it is interesting to note that the signatures of these doctors are witnessed by only 3 such persons. It is a self-perpetuating oligarchy because no-one can become a member of the Council where he has some controlof the management of the organisation unless he is elected to the position by the existing members of the Council and is a medical practitioner. So I find it somewhat hypocritical of the Government to say that it is concerned with democracy and with the rights of members of trade unions, when the members of these important organisations, which are concerned with the medical and hospital rights of contributors, have no say in the running of the organisations. I know that there are many medical benefit funds which are democratically run and controlled by their members. But in respect of the principal fund organisations in New South Wales, their leadership determines the amount of fees paid by the members and the amount of benefits paid to members - in consultation with the Government - and they arbitrate cn disputes with doctors and generally concern themselves with looking after the interests of the medical profession. Any suggestion by the Government that there is any concern for democracy in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is not borne out in practice. 
I leave that aspect and return to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. I think that we have to understand that the clauses which we are asked to approve seek to restrict the right to conciliation - this is where the emphasis has been placed in the past - and to place more emphasis on arbitration. The legislation seeks to reduce the level of arbitrated decisions. It seeks to take away from the existing procedures the right of commissioners and single judges to make determinations based on their understanding of the industry and the conditions. It seeks to restrict the right of unions and to reduce the incidence of negotiated agreements. If we look at so many of the improvements in working conditions in New South Wales in the immediate post-war years and in more recent times I refer to annual leave, long service leave, improvements in workers compensation, acceptance of accident pay in some sections of industry - these have been won outside the jurisdiction of the Commission by negotiated agreements with the organisations of the employers or by collective bargaining. It is clear that the Government proposes in these amendments to restrict this level of activity by the trade union movement. In fact, it seeks to place the total responsibility on the trade union movement to win improved conditions and increases in salaries and wages before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The legislation seeks to extend Government control and influence in the internal affairs of the trade union movement. 
For as long as I can recall the trade union movement of this country has fought for its independence against the arbitrary actions of the Governments. It has sought to be treated as any other corporate organisation is treated, making its own decisions, determining its own policy, involving its own membership, and acting in its own right. If this is good enough for companies, it is good enough for trade unions. I do not know how many questions I have heard asked about companies and their operations in the economic life of this country since I have been in the Senate, or how many questions have been asked of the Government to try to establish some control of companies and their shareholding funds. The Government has been loath, and in fact, has refused to take any legislative action. But it is in a hurry in respect to the trade union movement - the work force - because it wants to prevent even the meagre gains, that have been made in the last decade of two, being maintained or improved. The Government seeks to use legal, constitutional and intimidatory means to prevent the trade union movement carrying out its proper responsibility. 
The shadow Minister for Labour in another place has pointed out how tradesmen's salaries, since the advent of the Liberal government in 1949, have fallen behind average weekly earnings. The tradesmen are $24.50 worse off now than what they were in relation to average weekly earnings in 1949. Yet the Government is not satisfied with this. It wants to weaken further the capacity of the trade union movement to improve the living standards of the work force of this country. I can assure the Government and its supporters in this place that the trade union movement since its inception has shown courage and determination to win for its members and supporters some of the profits and prosperity that the work force produces in this country. No matter how much the Government may continue to legislate or to try to place the blame on the trade union movement for its own inept economic policies, the trade union movement will continue to represent the real interests of its membership. The trade union movement is the whipping boy for the Government in regard to the inflationary impact in our economy. It is a theme that is constantly harped upon by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and all of his supporters. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is itafact that in 1953, when the average weekly earnings were $32.70, the taxation deduction allowed For a spouse or dependant was $260 per annum, and that today, when average weekly earnings have exceeded $90. the concession is only $312 per annum; if so, (a) would it not be consistent and in the interest of family men that the allowance should be about $750 per annum, (b) is it becauseof such obvious anomalies that the Government has ordered the present inquiry into the taxation system, and (c) will the Treasurer assure the public that such anomalies will be removed following this inquiry. 

 Senator COTTON- The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The earnings and deductions quoted are correct. 
Although an increase in the deduction referred to would he of benefit to those claiming it, it must be recognised that particular concessional deduction provisions in the income tax law are varied from lime to time having regard to other concessional deduction provisions and to the other competing claims on the revenue. Changes to the levels of concessions are made in the light of overall Budget policies rather than in relation to movements in average weekly earnings. 
The reasons for the Government's decision to set up a high level expert body to conduct a full s cale public inquiry into the taxation system were set out in the Treasurer's statement in the House of Representatives on11th April 1972 and go far beyond matters of this kind. Clearly, it would be premature to discuss now what taxation measures will be taken after the enquiry is completed. 
I address a series of questions to the Leader of the Government in the Senate because I think that he probably has the longest service in this place of any Minister. Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Defence in 1951 said that national service greatly handicaps the development of a more effective army because of the excessive demands it makes on manpower and money? Does the Minister recall that in the House of Representatives Budget debate on 20th August 1964 and also at the 49th Congress of the Returned Services League  Dr Forbes,  as Minister for the Army, said that the Government was opposed to universal national service because it was against the unanimous advice of the Government's military advisers? Why then is the Government embarrassed by the statement made by  His Excellency  the Governor of New South Wales,  Sir Roden  Cutler, V.C., who said that a modern army- 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether he knows that there are ' growing numbers of private cars being parked on nature strips and open space areas around Parliament House during the day and in the evenings. Is not this practice a breach of section 3, paragraph 3 of the Trespass on Commonwealth Land Ordinance 1972? In view of the Government's adherence to law and order, will the Minister inform the Senate why the Commonwealth police have not yet acted with the same alacrity against, these offenders as they did. against those associated with the 'Aboriginal embassy? ' ' 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that  Dr Peter  Pockley, the highly regarded Director of Science Programmes, Australian Broadcasting Commission, has been relieved from responsibility for the supervision, production and editorial control of all ABC television programmes in the broad area of science, medicine and technology? In what way would the Government see itself embarrassed by any television programmes dealing with science, medicine and technology? Finally, is this move part of the general harassment by the Government to reduce the effectiveness of ABC television and further the uncertainty that exists amongst all senior officers of the Commission? 
Has the attention of the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to various reports suggesting that undue pressure was brought to bear to prevent sales tax on contraceptives being lifted in the 1972 Budget? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether these reports are correct and whether the overwhelming views of Liberal Party members and other community groups on this subject were ignored to placate outside pressure groups? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral tell the Senate exactly what steps  the  Government has  taken  to  ensure that  foreign shareholdings in the Nabarlek uranium deposits do not exceed 15  per  cent? Can he tell the Senate whether in fact the Government intends to make  use  of its powers under the Nabarlek legislation of 16th March to compel the resale  of  the excess foreign holdings in Nabarlek to Australian buyers, up to and including the Commonwealth Government? 
I do not share the optimism of supporters of the Government. Whilst I appreciate the sincerity of  Senator Laucke,  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, I feel that the examination spokesmen for the Government have made of the important financial document that is the 1972-73 Budget has been both superficial and inadequate to meet the needs of the Australian economy. I wish to refer to just one paragraph of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  He said: 
Overall, the Budget will be stimulatory. Our economy, over the years, has demonstrated  a  capacity for robust growth. The Budget  will  give the economy the real and psychological boost which is what it now needs to resume a strong growth path. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition, which seeks the condemnation of the Budget by the Senate because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres. The Opposition has not moved that amendment lightly or as a matter of form. It has done so because it believes that the debate on the Budget accords the Parliament and the people of Australia an opportunity to review the past year in the light of preparing for the future. 1 believe that, contrary to what Government spokesmen have said, the 1972-73 Budget will in retrospect prove to be an abysmal failure. It is an illegitimate document that is cunning and deceitful in its preparation and discriminatory in its application. In the time that is available to me 1 will seek to show that the Budget does not concern itself with the economy, with the problems facing the country or with the problems facing the people. It is a class Budget; it is a Budget which perpetuates the taxing of the man in the street. Despite the crumbs which have fallen from the table - that clearly was the philosophy behind the Treasurer's presentation of the 1972 Budget - I am sure that before this year is out the Budget will be shown to have failed in its strategy to arrest the decline in the economy that characterised the work of the McMahon Government. Extravagant language, yes, because the mask has to be torn away from the misconception that it is an extravagant Budget. 
The Budget will solve nothing, despite the attempts of its framers to ease somewhat the taxation problems facing the average man, despite attempts to increase pensions, despite endeavours to provide subsidies to those in need, despite attempts  to  improve the lot of students in secondary and tertiary establishments and despite many of the other gimmicks which are characteristics of this election Budget. The Budget, according to the Treasurer's statement, seeks to recognise Government action at the national level on unemployment. We in the Opposition say that unemployment will continue to rise and we support that view by referring to the documents which have been presented and which are the subject of the debate before the Senate. For instance, page 28 of the Estimates refers to the Government's plan to spend an additional SI 3m this financial year on unemployment. 
What are the unemployment figures? In May 1971, 64,802 people were registered as being unemployed. That figure was to grow in 12 months  to  97,635. It rose in June  to  99,201 and in July  to  112,000. I submit to the Senate that when the Budget documents were being prepared in July of this year the Government was aware that the unemployment figure had passed 100,000, and it has increased the estimates for that section of the National Welfare Fund from $44m to $57m, recognising that unemployment will continue and that the number unemployed will increase. 
On the other hand, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer always speak in optimistic terms, saying that things are improving. Public transport will continue to deteriorate because in the Budget the Commonwealth has made no attempt to grapple with the problems of public transport. No steps have been taken by those who framed the Budget to provide any relief to the States to assist in overcoming the problems associated with public transport. One has only to refer to the current debate taking place in the New South Wales Parliament to appreciate the tremendous problem that exists in this area. The Commonwealth Government shakes its head and stays apart from the problem. 
Inflation will remain and get progressively worse, despite what has been said by optimistic speakers on the Government side. Even the Treasurer finally had this to say: 'I think it right to inject this cautionary note', but he did not dwell upon it further in his Budget presentation. The Liberal and Country Party Government, employer bodies and other groups have attempted to lay the blame for inflation at the feet of the Australian trade unions. This has been their basic approach in order to divert attention from the real factor, which is their own economic mismanagement. The causes of inflation cannot be oversimplified, as the Government has sought to oversimplify them. Inflation is a highly complicated process which requires more than a layman's knowledge of economics for its proper understanding. 
There is nothing in the documents - and some .10 or 11 documents have been presented to the Senate and to the House of Representatives - that in any way gives any of the answers to the problems of inflation in this country. Any basic economic text will discuss 2 types of inflation: cost-push inflation, which is the type to which the Government constantly refers, and demand-pull inflation, which is the type about which the Government prefers to remain quiet. The reason for the Government's silence about demand-pull inflation is that the blame cannot be laid at the door of the trade union movement, as the Government attempts to do with cost-push inflation. In fact, this type of inflation is clearly at the feet of the Government. Only the Federal Government by means of its monetary and fiscal policies can significantly control the level of demand. 
There is considerable evidence to show that the present inflationary situation was reached by the forces of excessive demand. In fact, the last 4 Treasurers have all provided this evidence in their Budget Speeches in the last 4 years. In 1966-67  Mr McMahon,  then the Treasurer, said: 
Because of the prospective increase in the supply of labour and the growth of industrial capacity we should welcome some increase in demand in this area. But we do not want the economy to be stimulated to a degree that will later cause heavy competition for labour and materials. 
I suggest that this is just what has happened. In the 1967-68 Budget Speech - a year later - the same person,  Mr McMahon,  said: 
Total expenditure also could increase about as fast as production without upsetting the balance of demand and supply. But. if expenditure increases faster than that, it must outrun the resources available with adverse effects on costs. 
We could quickly find ourselves over-spending with resources over stretched and prices rising fast. 
How prophetic were those words of the Treasurer in the 1967-68 Budget Speech. In his 1968-69 Budget Speech  Mr McMahon  said: 
If the rise in demand is over-strong so that there is a relative short-fall in domestic supplies, there could be a still greater diversion of purchases to imports. More than likely also there would be some forcing up of local costs and prices. 
I am sure the Australian people - every one of them - would agree with the summation of the Treasurer. In presenting the Budget in 1969-70 the then Treasurer said: 
The effects of the strong rise in demand began to show up in the labour market half-way through the year. There can be no doubt that the free availability of money has been contributing greatly to the growing strength of demand. 
It is clearly the responsibility of the Government to control and manipulate the availability of money. Towards the end of the Speech the then Treasurer had this to say: 
There is a clear possibility that excess demand helped by excess liquidity, could upset the balance of the economy. 
That statement was a clear prediction - a forecast of what could happen. How correct the Treasurer was. Unfortunately neither he nor his Government did anything to stop what was happening, nor did his successors who likewise stated that they were aware of the problem. In the Budget Speech of 1970-71  Mr Bury,  who succeeded  Mr McMahon  in one of the chess games that go on constantly in the Government ranks, as recorded at page 10 of Hansard, said: 
In brief, notably though output was increasing, demand was increasing faster. These are typically the conditions in which inflation breeds. 
He also said: 
It is the demand side which bears watching. 
Quite clearly it was not watched closely enough.  Mr Snedden,  in his masterpiece of last year, also warned of the dangers of overstrong demand. When speaking about price increases he said: 
The factors which have caused these increases cannot be disentangled, still less quantified. 
Surely extracting wage demands as the major cause of price increases and inflation is just such a disentanglement. He continued. 
There has also been and still is an overstrong pressure of demand in some sectors, the effects of which spill over into other areas. 

 Mr Snedden's Budget that year was a budget with a difference. He took action, he said, to curb the growing level of demand. This action was the first serious attempt by the Government in 6 years to do so. It was 6 years too late. Spiralling inflation had already caused tremendous damage to the Australian economy and the Australian dollar. I do not wish to leave any misconceptions in the minds of honourable senators about  Mr Snedden's  belated actions. He curbed demand. In the typical Liberal hit and miss style of economic mismanagement, he missed. He curbed demand so much that the country fell into a recession which was accompanied by the highest level of unemployment for over a decade - an unemployment level which continues to rise and one for which the Government has provided in its Budget for 1972-73. It is possible, however, that this factor does represent at least one achievement of last year's Budget. There is considerable evidence that the Government deliberately set about to create a pool of unemployment. It decided that rather than move against price increases it would attempt to ease the inflationary spiral by creating a pool of unemployment so that employers were able to get the labour that they required. That was what  Mr Snedden  said.  Mr McMahon,  the Prime Minister, is on record as having said: 
The employment situation is proving a little stubborn. 
I am sure that it would not prove to be so stubborn if he and members of his Government were living on the social service payments provided in this Budget. 
I wish to move on to the areas of State finances and taxation. 1 support the amendment because I feel that ohe Budget has sought to act as a stop-gap - as a patchwork guilt - making no fundamental changes to the policies necessary to get unity in action and a co-operative framework and structure for the 3 arms of government. I hope to show that in Australia there is a situation of Federal affluence and State squalor. The Liberal-Country Party rule has been a bonanza for the private sector. Public expenditure at the State or local government levels has been in a straitjacket during the whole period of Liberal-Country Party government since 1949. A deterioration in CommonwealthState relations has been a feature of the 23 years of misrule by the Liberal-Country Party Federal Government. There have been numerous debates, editorials, articles and statements about the tremendous problems of State finances and about the inability of the Commonwealth to recognise any fundamental need for change in the relationship between these arms of government. 1 refer now to a document which has been presented in each State House of Parliament. lt was signed by Premiers Askin, Bjelke-Petersen, Brand, Bolte, Steele Hall and Bethune, premiers of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania, respectively - all Liberal or Country Party Premiers. I do not think that in quoting words that these spokesman used at the Premiers Conference in 1970 I could say that they were propagandising or attempting to exaggerate the plight of State finances. What did they say? It is worth while digressing for a moment to point out that in the brief 2 years since this document has been in circulation only 2 of those Premiers still hold office. History has moved; the wheel has turned. This is what they had to say when they were Premiers of their respective States: 
The outstanding feature of the financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States in recent years has been the progressive deterioration in the financial position of the States under the Commonwealth controlled system of uniform income taxation, originally introduced as a temporary wartime measure. 
. the grants have failed to keep pace either with the growth in State obligations to maintain and develop essential community services or with the growth in Commonwealth income tax receipts. 
I stress that the previous  speaker  in the debate,  Senator Laucke,  felt that he had to comment favourably on the disbursement of Commonwealth funds to the States. Stressing their inability to cope with their needs, the Premiers went on to say:   . . in an endeavour to make adequate provisions, the States have imposed heavy and recurring increases and extensions in their taxes and charges and have committed themselves to a tremendous build-up in the extent of the public debt. 
Pointing out that natural growth and inflation have kept Federal tax increases to a minimum, they said: 
Contrary to the experience of the States, the Commonwealth has been able to provide the whole of its capital and development works out of current fund's and actually to reduce its net public debt so greatly that it is now effectively a net creditor government. 
Let us leave the conservative Premiers for a moment and see whether their charges have any merit. When the Liberal-Country Party came to power in 1949 the Commonwealth debt was $3, 685m. Now it is down to $2,715m - a reduction of $970m. I am sorry that I have to quote so many figures in my speech, but we are dealing with financial matters and 1 think it is important to refer specifically to the figures included in the documents. All the figures which 1 have quoted and will quote in my speech are taken from documents that are before the Senate. In 1955 the Commonwealth established the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Fund by amending section 62a of the Audit Act. In the intervening 17 years it has paid excess Commonwealth revenue into this Fund. Currently that Fund stands at $2,744,433,071. which is more than the Federal debt. As the report of the Auditor-General shows, the Commonwealth has purchased or redeemed government securities to the  value of $2,024,288,001 since 1955. The Budget papers and the Auditor-General's report confirm the view of the 6 conservative Premiers that the Commonwealth is now a net creditor government. 
I am asked whether 1 am congratulating the Commonwealth Government. There is a trinity of Government in Australia and it is the responsibility of all arms of Government to work in co-operation with one another, not to pass the burden of indebtedness from the Commonwealth to the States and to the local government and semigovernment authorities so that it .s crippling to finances of other governments. I remind  Senator Webster  that we are supposed to represent the views of the States. We are here to protect the interests of the States. I do not see much protection coming from Government speakers. Let us now examine the States public debts. According to Government documents, Government securities on issue show State indebtedness at 30th June 1972 as $9,861,000,000 on which the annual interest liability is $546,161,000. 1 think that we are entitled to examine State revenue in order to see whether this sort of indebtedness has had any marked effect on the finances of State authorities. The States are to receive from the Commonwealth this year $2,454m, an increase of $29Sm. The last figures that I can obtain in respect of State revenue show that in 1969-70 the States collected $926,242m from their taxation rights. At this point I think it is worth referring to the munificent manner in which the Treasurer refers to estate and probate duties and the concessions which have been given federally. In no way do these concessions give the States any incentive to reduce taxes in regard to probate and succession duties because this tax takes account for nearly 15 per cent of State revenue. Land tax accounts for 7 per cent. Those who deplore gambling and all that it stands for are nevertheless quite happy that it accounts for 16 per cent of State taxation. Motor vehicle registrations, drivers licences and fees, including car stamp duty, accounts for 23 per cent of State revenue and that also includes road transport taxation and road maintenance contributions. Stamp duties account for 28 per cent of State revenue. Other income accounts for one per cent. Honourable senators should note that a great deal of this State taxation is regressive insofar as it adds to the cost structure. 
In New South Wales - I do not think that the position varies greatly from other States - we have a great crisis in public housing. The financial policies of the Federal Liberal and Country Party Government make State governments raise money wherever they can. Hence,  in  the 6 years in which a Liberal government has been administering affairs in New South Wales we have seen it selling suburban Crown land. Thousands of building lots have been sold since this government came to power in 1965 solely for the purpose of augmenting State finances. Yet another government agency, the New South Wales Housing Commission with more than 40,000 people on its waiting list - the highest number of people requiring public housing in the history of New South Wales - cannot afford to buy land. So here we have the result of Commonwealth financial policies forcing one government agency to sell land at auction to the highest bidder while another government agency charged with the  responsibilitity  of providing public housing to the low income groups is unable to buy sufficient land to carry out these requirements over the last 2 years because of inflation and the high cost of land in Sydney and the major cities in New South Wales. 
The 6 Tory State Premiers say: 
Notwithstanding that the Commonwealth grants to the States have been increasing year by year, ... the experience of the States has been that the basic volume of grants is still inadequate, . . . 
The Premiers are critical of the Commonwealth giving special purpose grants and point out that the most serious is in relation to social service pensions. Honourable senators should be aware that a certain amount of the grants which the Commonwealth makes available to the States is conditional upon the States raising certain funds within their own rights. I will quote again what the Premiers have to say in  their own words from their own document. Referring to social service pensions the easing of the means test, they said: 
The  unrecouped impact upon State funds of  the  provisions for free hospitalisation, of Commonwealth pensioners has grown to an extraordinary volume of over  $120-millions  a year; and in addition the States are obliged to bear other costs for pensioner travel concessions, housing subsidies, etc., making the aggregate in excess of$150millions a year. 
It is a case of the Commonwealth making a big man of itself and leaving other arms of government to carry the financial burden. If it is true that this Budget makes some modest contribution to this problem it is a case of too little too late. 
 If you let me continue,  Senator Byrne,  I will answer many of your questions in the contribution I have to make. It is worth quoting from Premiers' 1970 submission: 
The  indications are a clear trend over nearly  20  years of a continuing and substantial effort by the States to meet their expenditure obligations by recourse to their own sources of taxation. 
This next quote will answer the question of the honourable senator: 
In the year  1949-50  general purpose grants exceeded State taxes by  80  per cent. 
Because of inflation the percentage grew to 100 per cent by 1952-53. In other words, whatever the States were able to collect in their own right the Commonwealth matched dollar for dollar. The Premiers say: 
Thereafter until the year  1959-60  the States were forced to increase their tax yields much more rapidly than grants were increased until in that year grants exceeded taxes by only  50  per cent. 
In other words, the Commonwealth cut off the supply. The Premiers continue: 
To have secured the same total volume of funds for the States in  1959-60  upon the  1952-53  ratios would have involved  $55-millions  more in general purpose grants (that is  11  per cent more) and  $55-millions  less in taxes (that is  17  per cent less). ... by  1968-69  the excess of grants over State taxation fell still further to only  34  per cent. If the  1952-53  ratio of general purpose grants to taxes had been maintained to produce the same total revenue for the States of about  $1,830-  millions in  1968-69,  an additional  $170-millions  (or16 per cent) of grants would have been required affording about  22  per cent relief in taxation. 
It is worth noting that it was in this latter period that the Loan and Consolidation Reserve Fund was established and was plucking out of huge reserves of Commonwealth revenue annually, using this money to reduce the national debt and to lend huge sums to the States at high interest rates. It is worth noting in the Commonwealth Auditor-General's report 1971 that the last 4 Federal loans have been filled from this fund - not by public subscription - and that in all in excess of$626m out of general revenue has been put into the Loan and Consolidation Reserve Fund and lent to the States at varying rates of interest. The premiers say: 
. (the States have found it necessary to increase rales of taxation and extend the fieldsof taxation to make good the deficiency. 
So on the one hand the Commonwealth is so rich and has so much money in its hands that it has to set up a fund into which to pay the money. On the other hand, the States are so short of money that they have to extend their fields of taxation. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Acting President,  when the sitting was suspended I was referring to the documents tabled in the various State Parliaments in 1970 by the 6 Premiers. I was specifically speaking of the regressive nature of State taxation. In a clear warning to the Commonwealth in this document about the inflationary effects of State taxation, the Premiers said this: 
The taxes available constitutionally to the States are most indirect taxes and generally regressive  . . The income tax . . . is possibly the only tax capable of being operated in accordance with  . . concepts of equity and capacity to pay. 
Now comes the gem of all gems from the Premiers. They went on to say: 
It is worthy of remark that over the past quarter century Commonwealth income tax, because it has not been specifically revised with changes in money values and in income levels, has itself lost some of its former progressive intention and equity as between groups. 
Of course, we are in good company here, because those are precisely the words in the Budget speech of the Treasurer. In his Budget speech in the other place, the Treasurer said: 
The Government views with concern the considerable increase in the relative burden of personal income taxation in recent years and the effects which that is having' upon our economy 
End,  indeed, our society. In particular, the single income family, the typical suburban family man is being hard hit. 
This brings me to nailing the falsity of this Budget. 1 refer to personal taxation. I come back again to the Budget speech made by  Mr Snedden  and to the schedules which he has been gracious enough to provide us with in the papers. In the schedule for 1962-63 he shows that income tax in that year in respect to Federal revenue was $1, 083m. In 1972, the current year, it has risen to S4,208m, 4 times as much. Company tax in the same year 11 years ago, in 1962-63, was $537m. This has risen to SI, 564m, 3 times as much. I am sure the House will be pleased to permit me to give these sums in round figures rather than to be precise. Debt charges in 1962-63 were $!38m, now they are $102m. This is one of the charges that has dropped. It is worth drawing the attention of the Senate to the fact that in respect of national expenditure this year the estimate of receipts and summary of estimated expenditure, one of the documents before the Senate, indicates that debt charges represent only 1 per cent of national expenditure - a very remarkable feat. When we consider that the loan indebtedness of the States represents almost 60 per cent of the States' taxation income, and the interest charge on semi-government and local government bodies is 27 per cent of rate income, we see that the Commonealth is in a very favourable financial position. It has succeeded in reaching that objective - that is why I think the strategy of the Budget is so much at fault - by passing the debt burden down the line. If we look at the National Welfare Fund in 1962-63, which  Mr Snedden  referred to, we see that the expenditure in that fund, which is after all supposed to represent the goodies of life, was $758m. This financial year, according to the Budget estimates, it has risen to S2,077m, which is less than 3 times as much. Repatriation expenditure in 1962-63 totalled S203m, it is now S388m, considerably less than twice as much. This is the Budget which is supposed to be handing out, like Father Christmas, the goodies which the community has been waiting for for so long. Payments to the States in 1962-63 - these are the figures given to us by the Treasurer in the reports before the House- totalled $1,381,720,000; 11 years later, in respect to the current year, they have risen to $3,449,450,000, which is considerably less than 3 times as much. Total tax revenue 11 years ago was $2,867m; now it is $9,289m. considerablymore than  3i  times as much. 
So we see the picture unfolding. The Commonwealth is in fact handing back nothing, having taken money from the people and accumulated it over the years it has been in office. Let us look at page 33 of the booklet 'Public Authority Finance'. It shows that personal tax has doubled in the last 5 years from $2, 175m to $4,207m. In the same period of 5 years Customs income has risen by 70 per cent, excise income by 50 per cent, sales tax by 75 per cent and other taxation has risen from $90m approximately in 1967-68 to 8889m in 1972-73, an increase of almost 900 per cent. Therein, of course, lies the full story of the deterioration of service in the post office. 
Revenue in the same period has risen by 90 per cent. The analysis therefore shows that personal taxation and other income taxes, that is, for those who cannot understand, those shown in the lower end of the estimates of receipts and summary of estimated expenditure are the main contributors to the increase in Federal revenue - out of proportion to all other portions of national income. If anyone has doubts that I am showing the falsity of this Budget let me refer him to the Treasurer's own documents. I refer to page 35 of the document Estimates and Receipts, Summary of Expenditure', showing the revenue from taxation collected by the Commonwealth. It shows that the taxpayers, every man jack of them - every man, woman and child in this country - will pay to the Commonwealth this financial year, the .me starting as from 1st July 1972, and the one we are discussing with respect to the current Budget, an additional $38 per head in tax to the Commonwealth. This is the Budget which is supposed to be sending money back to the community; this is the Budget which is supposed to be producing the good things of life to every person in the community. The Treasurer seeks to tell us in his document that we are entitled to judge matters based on a family of husband, wife and 2 children. This means that the average family, according to this Budget, will pay 4 times $38, which is $152 more in national revenue during 1972-73. This is the Budget which is supposed to be putting money back into the pockets of these people. Yet according to the figures of the Budget and the papers associated with it, the Commonwealth is in fact reaping an extra $601 m or 7 per cent more income during the current financial year. It is worth putting on record that each person in Australia is now paying $709 08 in taxes. So much for the tax concessions! 
The Treasurer talked at great length about the increase in allowances for dependants. The increase is an additional $52 for each dependant. When I married in 1949 I was able to claim for my wife a concessional deduction of $260 or £130 as it was in those days. Since then the deduction has increased by $52. In this Budget the Treasurer has been gracious enough to increase the allowance by another $52. We all know how private enterprise is able to use the lurks and perks in the taxation field but this is not the case with the payasyouearn taxpayer. 1 come back to the point that I made earlier: In the final analysis, this Budget affects the man in the street, the ordinary taxpayer. 1 wish now to return to the statements by the 6 Premiers in their joint submissions to show the inequity of public authority finance in Australia. In 1949, revenue from Commonwealth taxation amounted to $l,038m. In 1968-69 this had risen to $5, 489m. In the same period, Commonwealth grants to the States rose from $1 86.3m to $l,158m. That is a rise of approximately 600 per cent. Revenue from State taxes in that period rose from $90.5m to $781m or an increase of 850 per cent. The difficulties of the States arising from loan indebtedness and interest charges may be seen from a study of the document entitled 'Government Securities on Issue at 30th June 1972'. This shows that the States' loan repayments total $546,163,000 representing $42 per head for every man woman and child in Australia. 
One of the interesting phenomena in recent times has been the diversion of Federal funds to the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. This has had the affect of leaving the maximum of private funds available for private investment. Federal funds have been invested in public loans for the States and the States are paying to the Commonwealth sums in excess of $100tn annually in interest charges on these loans. It is interesting that since 1955, whilst these large sums have been taken, from Federal Revenue and placed into this fund for loan to the States, the Commonwealth has redeemed $2,024,288,000,000 from the Reserve. Whilst on the one hand the Commonwealth has been crying poor mouth to the States and to local government and semigovernment authorities, whilst the backlog in sewerage works has continued to increase, whilst insufficient funds have been available for public housing, whilst increases have occurred in stamp duties, car insurance and car registration in the States and whilst death duties have risen astronomically in State budgets, the Commonwealth Government has been salting away thousands of millions of dollars into this fund. 
Again, from the Treasurer's own records, Commonwealth taxation has risen by 76.4 per cent per head of population in the decade under review. State taxation has increased by 137.5 per cent. The increase in local government taxes has kept pretty parallel with that of the Commonwealth at 76.76 per cent. It is hard to see how the fatuous reply of the Prime Minister can do anything to help local government. I wish to deal to some extent with the problems facing local government. I refer to a statement which the Prime Minister made in reply to a submission which the Australian Council of Local Government Associations presented a year or so ago following a meeting held in Hobart of Ministers responsible for local government in the various States. That meeting made some important decisions. The Ministers said: 
This conference of Ministers for Local Government in all States recognises the serious financial position of local government at present because - 
the cost of local government services is increasing rapidly; 
The sources of revenue available to local government are limited; 
Many rural areas are in a critical position and no increases in rates are likely or practicable in the foreseeable future. 
The Prime Minister in a long reply - I will quote only that portion which is relevant to the debate - makes this point: 
Against this background, I make it clear that the Commonwealth Government could only agree to the provision of assistance specifically for local government if State governments requested such assistance and were prepared to agree to an offsetting reduction in their general revenue grants. Further, as State governments are constitutionally responsible for local government authorities, I believe it would not be proper for representatives of the Commonwealth Government to discuss with your Council matters which are the concern of the State Governments. 
The 'Council' referred to is the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. Here is the Prime Minister, a Treasurer of some standing for some years and conscious of the situation of local government, making the point that he is prepared to consider relief to local government only if the States are prepared to offset such assistance by part of their general revenue grant. Surely I have made the point strongly enough that the position of the States is parlous and critical, because they have had to direct approximately 60 per cent of their taxation income to pay ofl their loan indebtedness. In his reply the Prime Minister is just begging the question. Who can deny that rates are at saturation point? Interest charges are now claiming more than one-quarter of all rates collected and already are too high. Local government cannot collect large sums of unpaid rates. State governments cannot help local government any more. The Budget again fails to provide any resources to stabilise local government finances, to move them out of the horse and buggy era and to supply them with funds to provide a proper and decent environment and adequate community facilities. 
I wish to refer, finally, to a most revealing document, 'National Income and Expenditure 1971-72', which shows the extent of movement in expenditure on personal consumption. It demonstrates that in the last 5 years expenditure by the community on food - I think that we will agree that in the egalitarian society in which we live the majority of people buy food - has risen by 28 per cent only. Rents have increased by 60 per cent. Fares have risen by 41 per cent. Goods and services are up 53 per cent. Taxation has doubled. The costs of motor vehicles, clothing, footwear and drapery have risen by between 35 per cent and 37 per cent. These figures are proof again that it is in the area of taxation, services, rent, fares, etc., that the average person is paying too high a price to live.  
I wish to quote what the 'Australian' on Thursday, 3rd August said. One could quote every national and State newspaper which has been concerned with this Budget. The editorial in the 'Australian' of 3rd August is headed: 'Taxation burden is intolerable' and it states: 
At a time when the Federal Government has been leaning heavily on the argument that wage increases cause inflation, it was appropriate for  a  Melbourne firm of management consultants  to  issue the reminder that one of the primary inflationary pressures is  the  Government's own taxation system. Of course exaggerated wage claims put up the cost of production and eventually prices, but one of the reasons the claims are pushed in the first place is the inequitable effect of the progressive scale of direct taxation. The class which has lost most since 1954 from progressive income tax has not been the rich, but precisely the people the tax system was supposed to favour: workers on average wages. 
Of course, at long last the Treasurer has given some recognition to this. In his documents he has stressed that the Government recognises that the family man is heavily taxed; he is carrying too big a burden; the family man needs to obtain relief. After 23 long years the Commonwealth has agreed to review the taxation system. Such a review of taxation should consider not only the inequity of the current personal taxation system but also the inequity which applies in relation to Commonwealth, State and semi and local government relationships. Many words have been written on these subjects but the Budget ignores all the words which have been written and spoken. It seeks to allow a little here and a little there. It seeks to satisfy the pecuniary interests of numbers of people. It puts about $2 a week in the pocket of the low income group and S3, $4 or SIO in the pockets of higher income earners. It does nothing to solve the stagnation which exists in the economy. It does nothing to solve the problems of public transport, urbanisation, the rural crisis, land development and State and local finance. To that extent the Budget has miserably failed the people of Australia. This debate may stimulate further fundamental thinking by some members of the Government Parties and it is to be hoped that the Senate will see fit to adopt the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I draw the attention of the Minister to the report of the Auditor-General for 1970-71 criticising delays in returns from the Commonwealth Superannuation Board. I ask him whether he is aware that in this year's Auditor-General's report, in the section dealing with the Commonwealth's Superannuation Fund, the Auditor-General says: 
In my 1970-71 report the view was expressed that the protracted delay in furnishing financial statements was a matter for concern. The further 12 month delay, coupled with the fact that financial statements for 1969-70 and 1970-71 are still outstanding, is evidence of a most unsatisfactory position which calls for effective action to ensure that financial statements are produced for audit examination at the earliest possible date. 
As there are funds exceeding $400m under the administration of the Superannuation Board, can the Minister advise the Senate whether the Board should not be called before the Parliament to explain the inordinate delay? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to reports that many Australian companies have set up offices in Vila, New Hebrides? Has the Minister any knowledge indicating that these developments are true? What practical steps have been taken by the Reserve Bank of Australia to stop any Australian company shifting funds or its operations to any other place not under Commonwealth jurisdiction in order to avoid taxation? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware of a statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  that as the Australian Broadcasting Commission uses public moneys it must accept public responsibility and scrutiny? Has he noted the annual report of the Department of Education and Science, issued by the Authority of the Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, which reveals that during 1971 $24m was paid by the Commonwealth to independent schools? Can the Senate be informed whether the same public scrutiny that is applied to the ABC is given to those funds? Is the Minister able to assure the Senate that the money expended by the Commonwealth has been used solely in the furtherance of education and is based on the needs of education? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior ask his colleague to investigate urgently the reasonable request by the New South Wales Penal Reform Council that prisoners in gaol during the forthcoming general elections be allowed to record an absentee vote? Is he aware that the New South Wales Electoral Officer has stated in a letter to the Council that there are no plans to provide for a postal vote for such prisoners on polling day? Will he ask the responsible Minister to give consideration to allowing prisoners to exercise their voting rights, especially as responsible members of the Penal Reform Council have offered their assistance to prison authorities in such activity? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is he alarmed by the prediction of the Victorian Chamber of the Manufactures that another 250,000 people could lose their jobs within the next year because of technological advances in industry? Will he state what steps the Department of Labour and National Service intends to take to combat the growing effect of automation on job availability or is the Government now reconciled to having a permanent hard core of unemployment of over 100,000? 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the question asked in this chamber on 23rd August 1972 by  Senator Hannan  in' which the honourable senator said: 
Is it a fact that the Yugoslav communist Embassy recently provided the Government with  a  list of names of Croatians who are alleged to have trained in terrorism in Australia . . . 
The Attorney-General in his reply said: 
It is a fact that the Yugoslav Ambassador recently delivered to the Minister for Foreign Affairs a document . . . 
And went on to say: 
That document is now being examined by the Commonwealth Police. 
It is now one month since that question was asked. In view of the recent bombings, what progress can be reported in the investigations by the Commonwealth Police? 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that as a representative of local government on 'the Mascot noise abatement committee I suggested that ascending aircraft should fly out to sea from the airfield before proceeding to their destination at altitudes which would not annoy the residents of .Sutherland Shire? Could the Senate be informed why it has taken more than 3 years to have this reasonable proposal implemented? 
The Australian Labor Party supports the 2 Bills relating to income tax which are before the Senate. Both Bills have been considered by the House of Representatives. I wish to deal with some of the arguments produced during the debate on the Budget, particularly the argument that Government supporters put forward suggesting that these Bills represent a considerable decrease in the incidence of taxation on the Australia work force. Government supporters have been mesmerised into believing that the tax concessions contained in these Bills  -  I refer both to the overall reduction in taxation and to the increase in dependants allowances - will have the effect of lowering considerably the tax responsibilities of people in the middle and lower income brackets. This, of course, is part of the general strategy that the Government has developed. Tax concessions and increased social service payments are regarded by the Government and its spokesmen in this chamber and the other place as being the panacea for the economic blight that dominates the Australian scene at the moment. 
The Australian Labor Party regards these Bills as a panic-stricken attempt by the Government to hoodwink the Australian people into believing that in fact the tax concessions are of general benefit to the taxpaying community. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that, by lifting the figure for the minimum amount of income on which income tax is levied from $417 a year to $1,041 a year, something like 600,000 taxpayers would be taken out of the taxation field But, in terms of the actual saving of tax, this amounts to only $42m and, in terms of the Budget Papers before the Senate and the Bill now being debated, it represents only one-eightieth of the amount collected in tax by means of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Therefore it represents a very small concession so far as the work force is concerned. It is interesting, when one examines the Commonwealth income tax statistics, to note that 63 per cent of people paying income tax to the Commonwealth have incomes between $1,042 and $4,999 a year. 
I believe, and the Labor Party believes, that the actions of the Government in this regard were designed to hoodwink the people into believing that there will be substantial tax savings for them. I would like honourable senators to consider the Budget Papers that are before us, together with the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. I refer honourable senators to Table 1, Summary of Commonwealth Expenditure and Receipts, 1962-63 to 1971-72 and 1972-73 (Estimate)' - a 10-year period. Surely we are entitled to determine whether the Government in fact is giving the concessions that it claims to be giving in this election Budget. I point out that the Senate is being asked to support this proposition and this Budget which has been described as an election Budget. It has been said that these Bills repesent a concession of some magnitude to taxpayers. It is interesting to note from the table which I referred that in 1962-63 pay as you earn taxpayers contributed $684m of the total tax revenue of $2,876m; in other words, they accounted for about 24 per cent of total tax revenue. I think that Government supporters ought to examine these figures. This year it is estimated that pay as you earn tax will total $3, 278m and that total tax revenue will be $8,400m; in other words, pay as you earn tax represents 39 per cent of total tax revenue. In the 10- year period the amount of pay as you earn tax as a proportion of total tax collected by the Commonwealth has increased from 24 per cent to 39 per cent. I have taken the time to examine the Budget Speeches and statements issued by the various Treasurers over a 20-year period. They show that in pay as you earn tax the Commonwealth has collected an additional $7,500m. 
If we examine the history of income tax in Australia we find that it was not until the latter part of the last century that income tax was levied by the States. Tasmania in fact was the first State to institute company tax. Four years later South Australia introduced a tax on incomes. By 1900 all States were taxing incomes. It is very interesting to note that in 1913 and 1914 all States raised half their revenue from income tax and company tax. It was not until the middle of World War I that the Commonwealth entered the income tax field. By the end of that war one-third of Commonwealth revenue came from income and company tax. I think all honourable senators would be aware that under the uniform tax legislation of 1942 the Commonwealth assumed full responsibility for levying and collecting income tax. In the years in which we were fighting a war, after the Commonwealth had taken over the total tax responsibility, income tax and company tax accounted for 57 per cent of the Commonwealth's total revenue. In 1949, which was the last year in which we had a Federal Labor government, that figure of 57 per cent had fallen to 54 per cent. It was to rise to 58 per cent in the early years of the Menzies Administration, in 1969 it dropped to 54 per cent, and this year, 1972 the year in which the Commonwealth is supposed to be giving bonuses from taxation revenue - it is up to 58 per cent. This is the highest amount that has ever been collected by the Commonwealth in the income tax field, yet this is the year in which we are told that income tax has been reduced. 
I think that there is sufficient evidence in the Budget Papers to support what I am saying. I refer to the document entitled Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure', and to pages 6 and 7 which deal with receipts and expenditure at the Commonwealth level. As some of my colleagues in the other place have pointed out, despite the overall 10 per cent decrease in taxation, which is a feature of the Budget and which is the subject of the Bills now before us, the Commonwealth will receive in income tax from individuals, that is from those who pay as you earn, $439m more this year than it collected last year. So the Government is not giving away anything at all. In fact, it is still on the inflation bonanza which has characterised Commonwealth revenue in the whole of the post-war period, and particularly in the years from 1949 to 1972. 
If we turn to Table 6 in the document entitled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure', which deals with the Consolidated Revenue Fund and with the expenditure and receipts per head of population, we are confronted with an increase in taxation. This is set out in the Budget and in the 2 Bills that are before the Senate. There will be an increase in taxation of $38 per head of population, according to the current estimates for 1972-73. It is interesting to go back into time to see the incidence of income tax increases. For instance, in 1949, when the Chifley Labor Government was in power, taxpayers were paying tax of $129 per head of population. That was to rise, in 4 years, to $202 per head of population, then in 16 years to $412 per head of population and in the current year, as I have indicated, to $709, which will be an increase of $38 over the previous year. So this legislation which we are supporting does give some minor relief to the Aus tralian taxpayers, but in no way will it result in any substantial saving to the average taxpayer. 
A somewhat anomalous situation arises when we examine the concessional allowances which the Government has been gracious enough to increase in the Budget and which are the subject of the second Bill before the Senate. In 1949 - 23 years ago - the concessional allowance for a wife was $208. It was increased to $260 in 1953-54, to $286 in 1957-58, to $312 in 1967-68 and now to $364 in 1972-73- an increase of less than 100 per cent since 1949. Increases of the same ratio have been granted in concessional allowances for children. I think that the attention of the Senate and of the Australian people should be drawn to the fact that in the period from 1950-51 to 1972-73, concessional deductions for life assurance and superannuation payments have, increased from $400 to $.1,200. 
So if there was any equity at all in providing such substantial relief from taxation in concessional allowances for superannuation and life assurance payments, from $400 to $1,200, I think there Ls a very excellent case for increasing the concessional allowances for wives and children to $700 or $800. Although we welcome the increases in concessional allowances which have been granted in the Budget, the Commonwealth has made really no appreciable attempt to give any equity in these fields. 
Let us examine also the propositions which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has placed before the House of Representatives and which his representative in this chamber,  Senator Cotton,  has placed before, the Senate in respect of taxable income. The minimum income on which tax was paid in 1949 was $208. It took 14 years - until the 1963-64 Budget - before that figure was increased by 100 per cent, to $416. It has taken another 9 years to increase the figure commensurate with the inflationary situation. So we have had the situation in which students, part time workers - particularly women who are working to supplement the family income - and young people have been paying tax on their wages which is out of all proportion to their ability to pay, which should be the basis of taxation. 
In the period during which I have been a member of the Senate I have heard many references made to the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I should like to refer to the policies of the Liberal Party of Australia in regard to taxation. 1 am indebted to the Parliamentary Library for providing me, with a copy of the official platform of the Liberal Party because it details that Party's policy on taxation. In 1946, which I would imagine would have been one of the early years in the formation of the Liberal Party, the Party adopted a policy- I am referring here to page 7 of the Party's platform - which provided for the adoption of a 3-year programme of progressive tax reduction aimed at a total ultimate reduction of 40 per cent in all income tax rates. I think that I have been able to show by what I said previously that income tax represents some 54 per cent of all Commonwealth revenue collected. The proportion continued to rise in the years in which we had a Liberal Government. At page 13 of the 'Liberal Platform' issued by the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party in November 1948 its policy had been amended to read that the adoption of a programme of progressive tax reduction was part of its platform, with special help for the family taxpayer, particularly with reference to allowances for dependent children, medical and like expenses, and education. The maximum deduction allowed for insurances, medical expenses, etc., was to be increased. 
Certainly that policy was carried out in respect of the maximum deductions for insurance, medical expenses, etc., but I do not think that on any liberal interpretation of its platform one could say that there has been a progressive tax reduction or any marked improvement in the allowances for dependent children and wives. As I have indicated to the Senate, it took the Liberal Government until 1963-64 to raise those concessional allowances. 
It is interesting to try to understand the philosophy behind the Government and to attempt to analyse the Liberal Party's subsequent documents. I refer to the. Liberal Party Federal Council's 'Official Federal Platform' of 15th November 1960 and 31st May 1971 where we see that the original philosophy behind the taxation proposals had been altered to accommodate the 
Government's policy rather than to accommodate the taxpayers. At page 6 of both these booklets we find: 
Tax reductions wherever practicable, consistent with the essential needs of defence, social and public services and of the economy and to preserve equity as between taxpayers. 
I think it can be shown, therefore, that the policy was altered to accommodate the Government's refusal to give any equity in the field of taxation and to place the total burden of taxation on the low and middle income groups. We have the views of the Treasurer on this subject in the documents that are before the Parliament. He said: 
The Government views with concern the considerable increase in the relative burden of personal income taxation in recent years and the effects which that is having upon our economy and, indeed, our society. In particular, the single income family, the typical suburban family man, is being hit hard. 
As we have indicated, we are prepared to support the Government on this legislation because it will grant some concessions, but in terms of reality and in terms of the responsibility of people to pay taxation the legislation which is before the Senate for its ratification is totally inadequate to meet the real needs of the taxpaying community. 
Not only has there been this tremendous increase in taxation by the Commonwealth, but also in the same period the States, because of the economic policies pursued in Canberra, have had to increase their taxation drastically, to such an extent that in 1949 taxpayers were paying $10.45 per head to State governments throughout Australia whereas on the last figures available - for 1970 - they were paying $75.64 per head of population. I think we are entitled to say, therefore, that the Government has acted as somewhat of a charlatan in this matter. It has read the gallup polls and other public opinion polls, it has panicked and has sought in some way to create the impression that the taxation concessions, both in concessional allowances and in the overall across-the-board 10 per cent reduction, will find favour with the electorate. 
We are grateful that the Government has lifted the base income which attracts taxation from $416 to $1,041. The Labor Party will increase the minimum to about $2,500 because we can see that persons who have several children and who are earning about $55 a week should not be paying any tax in direct form and that they should be relieved to the maximum extent of the responsibilities which have been placed upon them. We will be acting substantially in accord with the policies of the Liberal Party when it was formed in 1946 and as they were expressed in their Federal Platform' in the earlier years of that Party. We recognise that the Governmentis aware that income tax has become out of proportion to Commonwealth revenue, and that is why the Commonwealth has seen fit to appoint a committee of inquiry into the taxation system. One would have expected that to be one of the first things that a Liberal Government would have done when it was elected to office in 1949, not that it would do it at the end of its term of office, after 23 long weary years. 1 do not know the personnel who will compose the committee and therefore I would not reflect on their capacity, ability or integrity. One can only assume that they are men of worth who are capable of carrying out this taxation review. It was on 11th April 1972 that the Treasurer announced that the Government had decided to institute a full-scale public inquiry into the taxation system, but it took him almost another 5 months to appoint the committee. It was only last week that he announced that the committee had been appointed. One must comment upon the composition of the committee. There will be several academic persons from the universities who, I should imagine, can be expected to look at the problem in a wide and tolerant way. In addition there are to be 2 representatives of industry. However, there is no representative of the general taxpayer or of the trade unions - no representative of  the  people who are carrying the substantial burden of taxation in this country. 
I am not suggesting that  Sir Peter  Lloyd or  Mr Kenneth  Wood would not look al the problem from the point of view of the low or middle income earner but, as 1 have indicated in respect of the documents which were presented with the Budget this year, of the $3,250m which the Commonwealth collects in taxation, people earning less than $5,000 per annum - that is, ho. e who are earning the average weekly wage or less - are contributing about 63 per cent. Where is their representation on this committee of inquiry? 1 think we are entitled to regard the Government as acting too late in carrying out a proper evaluation of taxation and of acting in such a way as to cast very considerable doubts upon its integrity in this matter. Notwithstanding that, the Labor Party will be prepared to support the legislation because it recognises that it goes some part of the way along the path to providing substantial relief to the taxpaying community. 
On behalf of the Opposition  1  move: 
At  the end  of  motion  add - but the Senate is of the opinion that the  only satisfactory  way to  provide social services benefits is through a comprehensive national system of social security where benefits are above the poverty  level  and tied to an index adjusted at least annually. 
The Opposition moves this amendment not in any formal fashion but because we believe that while the Senate will undoubtedly give its assent to this Bill there is a need for the Senate to express both in debate and in amendment form its attitude to the whole problem of social services  in  Australia. We commend the legislation because it is part of a move forward in respect to social services benefits for large numbers of the Australian people. It is, however, only one step in a mile which needs to be covered by the Parliament in order to have a share of the benefits of the prosperity and growth which have been part of Australia's development in post war years, made available to every citizen of this country. This is not the first occasion on which the Parliament has been presented with proposals for improvements in social service benefits. Improvements are invariably part of the Budget proposals, although analysis will show that on many occasions this Government has not made any substantial increase in social services payments. However, in respect of the general problems of social service benefits, this Government and its predecessors - under whatever names they have traded in the past years - sought on 4 separate occasions to improve considerably the lot of pensioners of all categories, and both Houses of Parliament have seen fit to pass legislation to that end. 
It was the conservative government led in 1913 by Prime Minister Cook which made the first endeavour to put social services on a much better basis than existed at that time. That attempt did not proceed because of the advent of World War I. The Earle Page administration made a further endeavour in 1927-28 to accept its public responsibility to put social services on a firm foundation. However Australia had to wait until 1938, in the time of the Lyons administration, for legislation actually to pass through both the House of Representatives and the Sentate. The National Insurance Bill was passed in that period. 
It is interesting to recall the political crisis that took place in that period. The Government, having had that legislation passed through the Parliament, failed to proclaim it and this brought about the resignation of the Attorney-General of that day. I am not suggesting thai the present Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  would take such precipitate action if the Senate were to amend the legislation on this occassion. The then Attorney-General,  Mr Menzies,  was quite concerned at the failure of the Government of that day to implement the National Insurance Act. That was 34 years ago and the National Insurance Act has never been proclaimed and its benefits have not been passed on to the Australian people. The Chifley administration of 1948-49 certainly intended to place social service benefits on a firm foundation when it introduced the National Welfare Bill but again events intervened to prevent the enactment of legislation to give substantial benefits to the Australian people. 
The 1949 election was fought on a number of issues. The leader of the newly formed Liberal Party that was successful in that election,  Mr Menzies,  obviously still had a social conscience because he promised on that occasion that his Government would abolish the means test. 1 refer the Senate to his policy speech of 23 years ago in which he said: 
Australia still needs a contributory system of national insurance against sickness, widowhood, unemployment, and old age. It is only under such a system that we can make all benefits a matter of right, and so gel completely rid of  the  means test. 
As that was part of the social services policy of the Government elected at that election one would have thought that there would have been considerable movement towards abolition of the means test or towards establishing a national superannuation .scheme by the enactment of a national insurance bill as a matter of conscience. In recent years a matter of conscience has been the subject of considerable debate in the Parliament. The Attorney-Gener.il of 1938. who was later to become Prime Minister, saw fit to resign the important position of Attorney-General in the Lyons Government. However, I want to go back, as 1 did recently when discussing the Income Tax Assessment Bill, and refer to the policy espoused by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because being a good Party man he was, in fact, putting forward the policy of his Party. I wish to refer to the documents of the Liberal platform of 1946 which were similar to the corresponding documents of the Liberal Party of Australia in 1948. 1 want to draw to the attention of the Senate the terminology used by the Liberal Party and show its likeness to the amendment that I have moved. This is what it says: 
Generous provision by means of an effective social insurance scheme for superannuation, incapacity, sick pay, medical and the like expenses, unemployment, widowhood and family endowment. All children to be provided for by child endowment. No means test. The means test is the inevitable consequence of non-contributory social services and is a deterrent to thrift. Adequate and permanent social services will necessarily require contributions by all persons in receipt of income  supplemented  by grants from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The encouragement of supplementary voluntary schemes in addition to Government schemes. 
It is rather interesting to refer to the current criticisms that have been made by Government spokesmen against the shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Oxley,  Mr Hayden,  who is the Labor Party spokesman on these mailers when he has indicated his proposition, which has been endorsed by the Labor Party and which will be part of its policy and to see the similarity with the thinking in the early years of the Liberal Party. We see that breath of spring that Menzies was to speak about in the formative years of the Liberal Party incorporated in this and many other of its earlier policy statements which have been bypassed in time. If we go back to 1960 and to 1971 we see that all references to the abolition of the means test have been removed from the policy of the Liberal Parly. Somewhere in the effluxion of time the message was passed down the line.  Sir Robert  lost his conscientious attitude to social services. The members of the Liberal Party came to favour not the abolition of the means test, but its progressive liberalisation both in regard to property and income. 
Of course, we are aware that subsequent elections were fought on the issue of the abolition of the means test.  Dr Evatt  almost became the Prime Minister of this country on the basis of his proposals in 1954 to the electorate of Australia for the abolition of the means test within 3 &gt;ears. Then the apostles of doom came on the scene and have been on the scene at every election subsequently when the Labor Party has endeavoured to do what the Liberal Party said it would do when it stated its platform in 1946, 1947, 1948 and those early years. We hear such statements as: Where is the money to come from? The country cannot afford it. This will mean increased taxation. We heard the same calamity howling in recent times.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and the Prime Minister have both seen fit to criticise the Labor Party in some of its election policy matters which it is already prepared to place before the electorate within the next month or two. Of course one can analyse what  Dr Evatt  was seeking to do and refer to attempts by succeeding Labor leaders over the years right up until  1969  when  Mr Whitlam  presented his policy speech. He sought to place social service benefits in such a position that they would give the maximum benefit to those in need wherever they may be throughout Australia. Again we were informed that Australia did not have the resources, that the Australian Labor Party was immature and that it was unable to say where the money was coming from. Then of the eve of an election when, it must surely be admitted by Government spokesmen and defenders of Government policy, the tide is running very heavily against the Government - if we are to take cognisance of public opinion polls - a rabbit is pulled out of the hat. It is not a Petrov Commission; this time it is the abolition of the means test within  3  years. So after  23  years and after the Liberal Party has taken the policy out of its platform, we find that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has been able to prevail upon his colleagues in respect of the need to abolish the means test The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services, went to great lengths in his second reading speech on Thursday to draw attention to the effect of the means test. He stated: 
The present proposal will, of course, lose a great deal of its significance within the next 3 years, when the  abolition  of the means test for persons over 65 years of age become effective. 
The Attorney-General went on to state that this was essential because of the effect of inflation. I am sure that the AttorneyGeneral cannot disagree with me when  1  say that in  1969  Australia was suffering just as much from inflation, as now. Yet he and his colleagues, encouraged to some extent by the mass circulation newspapers, endeavoured to make the Australian people believe that Australia could not afford to abolish the means test. We live in an entirely new era. We are one of the wealthiest countries of the world.  In  the post-war years we have had a tremendous increase in wealth and technology has moved very fast, particularly over the last decade or so. There is no question but that the country has the capacity to pay increased benefits to those who are needy. Our standard of living should be constantly rising if every person who contributes to this wealth is to enjoy the benefits of his labour or of increased technology. Therefore one finds it very difficult to accept the premise of the Government that these latest increases represent any substantial improvement in the standard of living. The Minister for Social Services in presenting this Bill in the other place went to great lengths to produce graphs and figures the like of which I have not seen before in Hansard - but then I am relatively new.  i  suppose they have appeared before. The Prime Minister went on record only a few weeks earlier to talk about the need for an inquiry into poverty. Such is the state of the nation that there is a need for the Government to inquire into the areas of poverty which exist in our community. Clearly the Minister had this in mind when he convinced his colleagues in the Party room of the need to increase pensions. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was commenting on the policy speech of  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, when he was contesting the general election of  1949. 1  want to go on and quote several more sentences from that speech because I think they are relative to the amendment on which the Opposition is seeking the support of the Senate. Speaking of the means lest,  Mr Menzies  said: 
There are also grave anomalies associated with the position of persons who have contributed for their own superannuation benefits.  lt is true that in this piece of legislation there has been some recognition of that view, which I repeat was expressed in  1949,  but, coming  23  years later, I think it could be said that it is belated recognition.  Mr Menzies  went on to say, referring to the means test: 
This great human problem will have our urgent attention as matter of priority. 
I think the record speaks for itself. It has not been until the Government has been hard pressed in respect to contesting the 1972 general election that it has seen fit to take any meaningful steps towards recognising the unfairness of the means test to aged and invalid persons. How many millions of people have failed to benefit from the act of conscience of  Mr Menzies  in 1938 and his policy speech of 1949? Many people have died without being able to avail themselves of these very important benefits. At the moment 971,511 persons in Australia are in receipt of age and invalid pensions and 92,784 are in receipt of the widow's pension. So, in excess of a million people are entitled to benefits under the social service legislation. Undoubtedly most of them will continue to benefit from this piece of legislation. 
It is interesting to note that the Commonwealth has taken the step in the Budget documents of increasing the total amount for social service payments provided through the National Welfare Fund by $325m, which represents an increase of in excess of 18 per cent on the amount for the previous year. I want to draw the attention of honourable senators to the relativity involved in this matter of social service payments. I shall be relying upon documents supplied to me by the Statistical Service of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library to support my argument. In 1949-50 social service payments amounted to 17.2 per cent of the national expenditure. Let us compare that figure with the propositions which were incorporated in the Budget and which are the substance of the Bill that is before this Senate. It is interesting to note that the comparative figure has fallen to 14.49 per cent. It is also interesting to note that there have been lower figures than that in some of the intervening 23 years. The worst figure was in 1970-71, when social service payments amounted to 12.77 per cent of the national expenditure. 
It is true that honourable senators have argued and will continue to argue that figures can tell all sorts of stories and that all sorts of results can be read into statistics. However, I do want to draw the attention of the Senate to another group of statistics which were supplied by a similar source. In 1947, just 2 years after the ces sation of hostilities, when the average weekly earnings were $15.60 the Labor Government, which was in office was able to contribute $3.75 a week in pensions, which represented 24 per cent of the average weekly earnings. As can be seen, I have moved from a comparison between social service payments and the national expenditure to a comparison between social service payments and average weekly earnings. The percentage was to drop somewhat in 1949. When the average weekly earnings were $19.40, the pension was $4.25, which represented only 21.9 per cent of the average weekly earnings. Let us compare those figures with the figures as expressed in the Budget and in the Bill which is before the Senate. In doing so I am anticipating that the Government's estimation is correct in respect to average weekly earnings, that is, that they will continue to rise at 9 per cent per annum. I am guided in this respect by the Government's own assessments. The increased rate of pension of $20 a week represents only 19.7 per cent of the average weekly earnings. So, whilst superficially the Government is able to point to a rise in pension rates, when related either to national expenditure or average weekly earnings the pension rate fails to meet the bill. 
Let us examine some of the black pages in the average weekly earnings,  Senator Greenwood.  In 1955, when the average weekly earnings were $36.70, the pension rate was $8, which represented 21.8 per cent of the average weekly earnings. I am prepared to accept that as being comparative to the figure in 1949 when the Menzies administration came to office. In the following year the average weekly earnings increased but the pension rate remained the same. The average weekly earnings increased to $38.40 but the pension rate remained the same, which meant a percentage drop. I am now relying on some figures that were supplied to me by the Treasury. The supplying of these figures is an example of the open form of government which we can anticipate coming into effect in the future. In the same period - 1955, 1956 and 1957 - the Commonwealth in its Budget assessments and estimates put the sum of S373m aside in the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Fund. But the Government did not have regard for either the average weekly earnings or the comparisons in respect to Government expenditure at that time. It allowed the pension rate to slip behind. The same sort of story can be told about the period between 1961 and 1963. I am relying again on the same documents. The pension remained static at SI 0.50 for a period of 2 years, despite the fact that average weekly earnings increased by $3.90 in that period. As a consequence, pensioners were denied a very substantial increase to which they were entitled. In the same period the Commonwealth put $ 126.9m into the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve. 
To make matters worse, an analysis has been made of the increased taxation revenue that the Commonwealth has collected over the 20-year period from 1952 to 1972. I referred to this matter in my speech on the Income Tax Bill last week. During that period $7, 685m has been collected. But in many of the years in that period the pension rate remained static and no regard was had to the increase in average weekly earnings - in other words, to increased income through improved productivity or technology, or the effects of inflation which were beginning to express themselves. In 1955 the Commonwealth collected SI 37m in additional taxation revenue. During the period to which I referred earlier - from 1961 to 1963 - about $223m was collected in additional taxation revenue. So surely we are entitled to say that, whilst a little has been given, it has not caught up in any way with the requirements and has not had regard for the needs of the people who are entitled to receive reasonable pensions. 
It is true, as the Minister has said, that a great number of people will benefit from the increases embodied in the Bill. But I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that a number of benefits are not readily available and no increases have been granted in a number of areas of social services. For instance, in this Budget there is no increase in the unemployment benefit, despite the fact that at this time about 120,000 are unemployed. In the field of child endowment, no increases have been granted in the social services section of the Budget. From 1949, the last year in which the Labor Party was in government, right down to the present day there has been no increase in the Si a week paid in respect of the second child. Certainly, the Menzies Administration, shortly after it came to office, in its 1950 Budget provided for a new payment of 50c a week for the first child. But can any honourable senator tell me of any item, any expenditure anywhere in Australia that has not risen in that period of 23 years? Since 1949 the child endowment payments for the first and second children have remained static. That is not to the credit of the country or of the Government. It took the Government from 1949 until the 1964 Budget to increase the payment for the third child to $1.50 a week and until the 1971 Budget - 7 budgets later - to increase it to $2 a week. The maternity allowance has remained static. It was $30 in 1947, and in 1972 - 25 years later- it is still $30. The Government has retained the funeral benefit at $20 in certain circumstances, although in 1965 it increased it to $40 in other circumstances. 
Therefore, I believe that we are entitled to expect honourable senators to debate our proposition seriously. Whilst we will not delay the passage of this Bill, I believe that we are entitled to say that too little has been given and it has been too late. I believe that we are entitled to relate the $1.75 a week increase, which represents the substantial proportion of the increases provided for in this Bill, to the tax concessions which are also provided in this Budget. We as a Parliament have not had regard to equity in these matters. I find it difficult to understand the Government's justification for increasing pensions by $1.75 a week whereas in order to maintain the 1949 ratio the increase should be $4.50 a week. Also, the $1.75 a week increase is rather difficult to accept as any sort of a tangible benefit when in the same Budget the Government has taken steps to provide for the wealthier groups in the community very substantial decreases in their weekly taxation bill. For instance, people with an income of $10,000 will receive a taxation saving of $5 a week; people with an income of $15,000 will receive a taxation saving of $8.50; and people with an income of $20,000 will receive a taxation saving of $14 a week. 
Surely it cannot be argued that such people are entitled to that sort of benefit while the really needy people - those who are subjected to a rigorous means test and those who receive the full pension but none of the benefits of the easing of the means test that has occurred in recent years - are entitled to an increase of only $1.75 a week. If the Government really wanted to get the economy moving the reverse should have happened. The money given in the form of taxation savings should have been made available to the pensioners; it should not have been put in the hands of those whose incomes are sufficient to meet all their needs. It is a matter of the rich looking after the rich and of the poor not being looked after. I include the pensioners in the latter category. I wonder how many times members of the Government parties talk to pensioners, particularly those who live in rented premises, about their difficulties of living, and their inability to do more than live from one pension cheque to the next. 
We commend the initiative that has been taken to abolish the means test, but we do not think it comes near to solving the problem. Therefore, we propose that there should be an examination of the very principles and policies that the Liberal Party put forward in its documents in the mid- 1940s. Contributions should be levied on all taxable income in order to finance a total scheme. The idea of  Mr Menzies,  as he was in those days, was that sickness, widowhood, unemployment, age and invalid pensions and all the other areas of social services would come within one scheme. The Labor Party's proposition is that persons earning less than $1,890 a year and every person in the pensioner category will be covered automatically and will receive the benefits of the superannuation scheme that Labor proposes to introduce. In other words, members of the community will be asked to accept their full responsibility and to bear the full financial cost. This is not a revolutionary scheme. Numbers of countries which are recognised on the world scene as being in the forefront in the provision of welfare benefits have already adopted schemes similar to that to which the Labor Party is committed. Those schemes have as their objective the establishment of a ratio related to average weekly earnings. I think we are entitled to say that pensions should be tied in an automatic way to average weekly earnings which should reflect the prosperity and growth of a nation. 
In the event of there being a Labor government and the Senate agreeing to take the first steps in this direction, at the outset our scheme would result in an increase of more than $5 a week in the age and invalid pensions. We believe also that the means test should be abolished. We have been assailed by Government spokesmen because we suggest that the means test should be abolished over a period of 6 years. 1 remind the Senate that if only a handful more people had voted for Labor in 1961 the means test already would have been well on the way towards being abolished and we would have been able to beat the timetable which the Government has set for itself. If it is re-elected it proposes to abolish the means test by 1975. 
The Labor Party has been criticised many times in this place on policy considerations. It should be stated that difficulties accrue to all political parties if they do not carry out the policies which they espouse and on which they are elected and they will face crises of the kind which have plagued many political movements in Australia and currently are plaguing the Liberal Party. It is no wonder that  Mr Gorton, Mr MoMahon, Mr Steele  Hall and other leading figures in the Liberal Party organisation have been talking about a crisis in philosophy and a crisis in the policy considerations of this Government. It is no wonder that the Prime Minister at various gatherings has been talking about the need to re-think and re-shape policies having regard to the great changes that have come over Australia and the world in recent years. We suggest that the Government is now reaping the whirlwind from its own inactivity on these matters. No longer can we fight political campaigns on the basis that there is never enough money to carry out the programmes on which political parties seek election. 
As I have mentioned previously, close to $4,000m has been milked out of the national revenue since the establishment of the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Fund in 1955. That amount of money could have paid for all the social service benefits which the Government now claims need to be met from the current Budget. Child endowment could have been raised, the States could have been adequately protected from economic difficulties, there would have been no crisis in urban affairs and there would have been no need now for governments to talk about setting up committees of inquiry. Currently we have in progress 7 or 8 committees of inquiry into matters such as poverty, repatriation, urban affairs and other areas of Government policy, if governments had reflected the real needs of the people, as is their responsibility, we would not have these crises within the political Liberal movement and the people of Australia would have been enjoying a very much higher standard of living than they have at present. We commend the amendment to the Senate, lt is a genuine attempt by the Opposition to draw to the attention of the Government the need to establish a national superannuation scheme to bring Australia into line with the advanced countries of the world in this field of national welfare which is the responsibility of government in this area. We suggest that the time has arrived for the Senate to express that. view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are large numbers of private motor vehicles being parked on nature strips and open space areas surrounding Parliament House; if so, is this practice a breach of section 3, paragraph 3, of the Australian Capital Territory Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, why have the Australian Capital Territory Police not acted with the same alacrity against these offenders as they did against those persons who were associated with the Aboriginal Embassy. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The only area in the vicinity of Parliament House on which parking is made an offence under the provisions of section 3, sub-section. (3.) of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance is that area notified in Gazette No. 64 of 1972. 
The area notified in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3.) of section 3 of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance has not been used for parking. 
I direct my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. Is the Minister aware of the accelerated practice of companies purchasing luxury homes for top executives? Are not these capital purchases, annual rates and taxes and depreciation of such assets recognised as a legitimate tax deduction? Would the Minister raise with the Acting Treasurer the desirability of preventing such fringe benefits being tax deductible, and of stopping companies avoiding tax responsibility by dispersing their profits through these means? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. Is it a fact that the statistical research section of the Parliamentary Library is to be shifted from this building to another publicly owned building because of space considerations? If that is so, could the matter be reconsidered having regard to to the fact that this section of the Library is used extensively by members of both Houses of the Parliament and this would be a very detrimental step to take in regard to the use of the facilities of the Library? 
The Senate and the Australian people are indebted to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for providing the Senate with an opportunity to debate not a question of components parts, as  Senator Laucke  put it in simplistic terms, but the important question of the future of a great Australian industry which undoubtedly will play a major part in the development of this country in the years ahead. I refer, of course, to the natural gas industry. We are concerned about the first step in developing a new resource which Australia is blessed to have in large quantities and which will augment the power and fuel potential of this country. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  criticised the Opposition for taking the steps that it has taken to have this matter debated in the Senate. What other avenue is available to the Parliament to debate the importance of natural gas and the ancillary problems that go with the development of this resource? I refer of course to the provision of pipes to enable our first major development in this field. 
It is interesting to note that both  Senator Webster  and  Senator Laucke  were sufficiently aware of the criticism by the Australian Labor Party in relation to this matter to conclude that Australian industry has not been given a fair go in connection with the provision of pipes for this project. The Senate has been given an opportunity to record its displeasure at the failure of the Government to do any pre-planning in respect of natural gas. 
From the layman's point of view it has become clear over the last 3 or 4 years that natural gas is going to become a major source of fuel in Australia. Any government worth its salt, any government concerned with the economy, with employment or with industry would have had its officers working to establish the requirements associated with this new industry. The Government should have recognised the potential of natural gas and realised that it was going to become a major source of fuel supply in this country. It should have taken the necessary initiatives and steps to alert Australian industry to its responsibility of providing all the component parts to put this industry on its feet. In other words,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the Government should have been carving out its leadership role. It should have been pre-planning and preparing for the future. 
However, as has been the case so often in recent years, we have an ad hoc Government, a Government that moves after the event, a Government that never looks to the future, a Government that steals policies from the Australian Labor Party when it is caught flat-footed, as has been the case on so many questions in recent times. This 
Government has been acting in absentia and has not been applying business principles to the affairs of this nation. 
Australia has extensive gas reserves and this particular pipeline project is only the start, a very minor start, to a major development which undoubtedly will be with us for the next 30 or 40 years. At the moment we are concerned about the provision of pipes for a pipeline 780 miles long. However it is anticipated by people who have applied themselves to an investigation of these matters that within the next 10 or 15 years Australia will require something like 20,000 miles of pipe. The Australian industry has taken certain initiatives. What we are debating in this case is a struggle between rival monopoly groups, the Australian Gas Light Co. and Esso-BHP. Clearly, so far as the Australian Gas Light Co. is concerned, it is a matter of sour grapes because it missed out on some of the earlier exploratory rights in the natural gas field. However, we have unlimited supplies and a tremendous potential and these facts have been within the knowledge of the Government for a considerable number of years. Whilst it is conceded that there may be limited experience and knowledge in certain industrial undertakings in Australia about making pipes to the proper specifications, surely it was within the competence and responsibility of the Government to take the initiative to pre-plan for the sort of eventuality that we are faced with on this occasion. 
I find it inconceivable that the Government should attempt to defend its position. I want to refer the Senate to a series of questions which the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  was forced to answer in the other place and the comments that he made when pressed time and time again by one of the shadow Ministers, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
The second consideration is that we do not infringe basic principles- 
I gather that he was referring to tha Government.  - that is, we went to see commercial decisions being made by commercial firms themselves without too much intrusion by the Government. 
How much double talk and hypocrisy do we have to put up with from this Government? If in fact commercial organisations are to make commercial decisions why is it that in the Budget documents which are before the Senate the Government refers to Commonwealth payments to industry? I refer honourable senators to page 74 of the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  where there is a statement setting out Commonwealth payments to industry. That statement is as follows: 
These payments are estimated to amount to $367m in 1972-73, compared with payments of . . . about $73m 10 years ago. . . . 
The Government accepts responsibilities in the fields of exports, industry, investment allowances and other incentives in order to get industry moving along certain lines and so, according to its limited ideas, get industrial development which will be of some advantage to this nation. On the other hand, when it comes to a question of conflict we see the Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry, taking quite a contrary stand to that of his colleague,  Senator Webster,  this evening. 
It is clear that the Australian pipe manufacturing industry was not given any real opportunity to participate in tendering for this very important first stage of a mammoth development in this country. The Government is prepared to subsidise the shipbuilding industry and many other industries; so why does it not take the initiative and attempt to get an Australian industry retooled so that it can carry out its responsibility to provide components for the natural gas industry? I want to refer to numerous statements that have been made in the Press. This statement appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' only a few days ago: 
Workers in the Australian pipe industry could lose their jobs as a result of the $54-million gas pipeline contract given to Japanese manufacturers,  a  BHP spokesman said last night. 
I am sure that the Senate would agree that it is the responsibility of responsible union officials to fight for the rights of their members in any given industry. The representative of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia particularly has already indicated to me that the industry in which most of its members arc employed is facing a recession. About 450 employees have been retrenched in the 
Newcastle area during 1972 and the Port Kembla plant is not working to capacity. This has led the National Secretary of that organisation  Mr Short  to stand up and fight for the rights of his members, including their right to work. He is to be congratulated for this - not condemned as he was by the Minister for Works during his contribution this evening. 
I am led to believe that officials in the industries covered by this development were led up the garden path by the Australian Gas Light Co. They were led to believe -  Senator Laucke  has agreed in principle with this - that about 50 per cent of the contract would be available to Australian industry. But when the chips were down the Australian Gas Light Co. was prepared to abdicate and to place its complete order overseas. It is only natural that there would be a reaction to this right across Australia. It is interesting that of all people in Australia only Government supporters and their little  Sir Echo  in this place - the Democratic Labor Party - have been prepared to defend the actions of the company in these matters. The Australian Gas Light Co. enjoys a particularly privileged position. It is virtually a State nationalised industry in New South Wales. It is constituted under a New South Wales Act of Parliament. Surely it is a responsibility of the State government to see that the Australian Gas Light Co. plays a better role in this than it is playing at the moment. It is the responsibility of ';he Commonwealth to apply its tariff laws to enable the Australian work force to be gainfully employed and for Australian industry to play a part in this important project. The retooling of our tubemaking industry is of vital necessity because there is an unlimited market in the future. 
I urge the Senate to give serious consideration to this matter this evening because of its wider implications. The Government cannot afford to apply a laissez-faire approach to this. It must start to plan the Australian economy. That is what the Australian people are looking for and that is why they will turn to the Australian Labor Party at the election in November. 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: Is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Robert  Madgwick, is soon to leave Australia for overseas and that the Acting  Chairman  of the Commission will be  Mr Arthur  Lowndes? Is it a fact also that  Mr Lowndes'  wife is a member of the campaign committee working for the return of the Prime Minister in the seat of Lowe? If this is so, would it not be wiser, in view of the current controversy concerning the 
ABC programme 'This Day Tonight', for some other commissioner to act for  Sir Robert  in his absence? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that more than 4,000 important Government publications are printed annually and that approximately 1,000 of these are given to members of both Houses of the Parliament? Does he agree that these publications are of vital concern to honourable senators amd members of the other place as well as to the Australian people but that because of reading time limitations many reports are not read and not publicised? Has the Government given any consideration to making research assistance available to each member so that documents of the Parliament may have the serious consideration of members of Parliament? 
Is the Minister for Air able to say whether any Royal Australian Air Force personnel from Richmond in New South Wales were involved in refurbishing aircraft purchased from Trans-Australia Airlines by the Jetair organisation subsequent to the purchase of those aircraft? Will the Minister make inquiries to ascertain whether any Service personnel were engaged at any time on such TAA aircraft? 
My question also is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that figures gathered by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics indicate that up to 15 per cent of unemployed people do not register for unemployment relief, thereby creating a falsely optimistic picture in the figures released by the Department of Labour and National Service? If this is so, can the Minister explore ways and means of including this factor when presenting an accurate picture of unemployment figures and trends each month? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the 
Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts been drawn to proposals by the Australian Gas Light Co. to pipe natural gas from Moomba to Sydney? Is the Minister aware that the shortest route proposed for the pipeline envisages an easement of probably 80 feet through the Blue Mountains National Park and the important Wollangambe wilderness area? For the information of the Senate, the declaration of an area as a wilderness area is supposed to preclude any construction whatsoever. In view of the Commonwealth Government's new found concern for environmental matters, will the Minister ask his colleague to use his good offices with the New South Wales Government to ensure that no park lands, least of all wilderness areas, are in any way affected by natural gas activities? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, relates to the controversy over the television programme This Day Tonight'. Is it a fact that the Postmaster-General's Department decided that only  Mr Lane  was to answer the allegations made by  Mr Baker  of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists over excess STD charges? Is the Minister able to tell the Senate whether it is true that during August the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff made at least 5 attempts to interview  Mr Lane,  the DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs, to provide the balance which the Commission management requires in ABC current affairs programmes? Is this technique of refusing to debate matters of public interest Government policy as far as public servants are concerned and is it designed to avoid public discussion of important public issues? 
 I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator O'Byrne  because in the view of the Opposition it follows logically from the debate in this chamber on 27th September which I am sure prompted the Democratic Labor Party to put its notice of motion on the notice paper and to have it debated today. We believe that the amendment is more relevant because the motion restricts the investigation by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade to the immediate decision by the Australian Gas Light Co. to conclude a contract wah a Japanese corporation to manufacture and supply steel pipes for the Moomba to Sydney pipeline. That is but the tip of the iceberg. It is the first stage of what everybody must concede will be the establishment of a national development of great significance to the economy of Australia and te the Government's more recent involvement in the affairs of decentralisation and urban matters. 
One has only to examine the report on Australia's Natural Resources - Minerals, Forests, Water and Energy', presented to the House of Representatives recently by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  to appreciate the tremendous potential of natural gas. As indicated in that report, until recently half of our total energy requirements were met by petroleum products other than natural gas. The report went on to draw attention to the fact that in the next decade or so that position will change radically. It is not of much use for the Standing Committee to examine the immediate consequences of the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline. Rather it should examine the total problem. 
Many journalists have written about this subject for our financial newspapers in recent times and have pointed to the great value that this industry will be to Australia and the great value that will flow to the steel industry from the provision of steel pipes. So we are not dealing only with the first problem, relating to the Australian Gas Light Company's moves in this area. We must view the total position. It is true that the Australian Gas Light Co. has accepted certain tenders and that it did not provide for public examination by Australian industry the specifications of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline. In this respect I am in good company because many Government supporters already have drawn attention to this fact. When this matter was before the Senate previously  Senator Webster  admitted in his speech that Australia had the potential to manufacture this pipe. Quite clearly, if it is a matter of re-tooling by our major steel companies and their subsidiaries, the sooner that re-tooling takes place and we are able to realise the potential of this industry the better it will be for the economy of this country. Therefore it is important that the Senate Standing Committee examine the consequences of the Australian Gas Light Company's activities, but from the point of view of the Opposition that is only part of the problem. That is why the amendment was specifically prepared. We are concerned about the legislative and administrative action which should be taken by the Government. 
It is not just a matter of providing steel tubing; it is not just a matter of providing component parts for 780 miles of pipeline to handle 0.04 per cent, according to the estimates presented by  Sir Reginal  Swartz, of the natural gas resources of Australia. Surely what is involved is not just the component parts of the first pipeline but its effect upon the total picture in Australia. For instance, how can the Government concern itself with questions of decentralisation, as its supporters in the House of Representatives are doing currently, if it does not consider fuel as part of that policy of decentralisation. Are we to leave it to the Australian Gas Light Co. to determine where the pipeline will be placed? Is the pipeline to take the shortest and most economical route from the point of view of that Company and its shareholders, or is the route to have relationship to the new-found interest of the Government and to the clear long term public interest of the Austraiian people in relating any source of fuel of this magnitude to the total economic planning requirements of the community? Surely, if it is to go in a straight line, for example, and perhaps bypass the Hunter Valley area, which has a great industrial potential, this is shortsighted planning. Therefore, are we to leave it to the Australian Gas Light Co. to determine the route of the pipeline or are we to say that in terms of our decentralisation policy it should go not from A to B but from A to D and be routed in such a way as to provide fuel reserves to a town which in 1985 will have a population and an industrial potential of some magnitude? 
We are indebted to  Senator Cotton  for telling us that in excess of $200m will be invested by the Australian Gas Light Co. Ultimately this cost will be borne by the consumer. We cannot afford to spend this sort of money without having regard to !he beneficial effects it could have on the Australian economy if in fact there was a national plan. The Australian Labor Party is not prepared to take the view that private enterprise should make determinations affecting this very great resource without regard to national planning. One does not have to go far back into history to appreciate that the development of the railway industry played a very big part in the stimulation and development of our economy in the 19th century. In fact, without the railway system, Australia probably would have been in a very much less advantageous position than it is in the world economic scene. Clearly the railways gave impetus to our economic development. We in the Labor Party believe that natural gas will afford the same stimulation; that it will play a very important part in the future development of Australia. 
There is no party political advantage to be gained in recognising these facts.  Sir 
Reginald Swartz has recognised these facts and drawn attention to the great value of our natural gas supplies. The point on which we join issue with the Government is that we believe there is a need to look at the social consequences as well as the economic consequences of natural gas. That means that we examine what Austraiian industry is able to do in providing the component parts for the gas pipeline. It means that we have regard for the planning of new cities and what part in that scheme of things natural gas will play, lt means that surely we will have regard for the environment. Everybody seems to pay lip-service to the importance of the environment in the scheme of things today. Let us examine what the Australian Gas Light Co. is doing in this area. I am Icd to believe that so far it has examined 3 routes in respect of the provision of this pipeline. It has not been established clearly which areas it will traverse. The company has had preliminary negotiations with certain land owners because so much of the pipeline will be coming over privately owned land. The New South Wales Government has had to bring down enacting legislation to permit the laying of pipes over private property. 
There are numerous difficulties in the way of the Australian Gas Light Co. There is evidence that the route which the company is proposing to follow goes through some important national parks in New South Wales. Clearly, as this industry develops, this sort of project will be repeated in other States. During question time yesterday I said that as a result of a survey the company has selected a route which will take the pipeline through one of the most unique wilderness areas in the northern sector of the Blue Mountains National Park. Surely these are matters of importance from the Government's point of view. Surely it comes within the competence of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  as well as the Minister for National Development to act in relation to these matters, and surely these are matters which the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade should examine. It is not just a matter of whether the Broken Hill Ply Co. Ltd was bypassed or whether it was not able to get the full specifications for the supply of pipes. We believe that the concept of the natural gas pipeline ignores the Commonwealth's interest in decentralisation and does not take into account any of the long term plans for regional development. We believe therefore that it is within the competence of the Senate to say that the Commonwealth should take some initiative to link the private development that is associated with natural gas with the long term planning for the public sector. 
We can understand that, because it is the concern of private enterprise to make the best return on its investment, the company would use the shortest and most economical route for the pipeline. But I am led to believe that the path it has chosen will pass the Newnes Afforestation camp, cross the Wollongambe wilderness area in the northern section of the Blue Mountains National Park, bridge the Wollongambe Gorge to reach Mount Irvine, go across Bowens Creek, reach Grose Vale via Bilpin and ultimately come into Sydney. We believe that it is within the competence of the Senate Standing Committee to examine these matters, and this is why we talk of the legislative and administrative action which should be taken by the Commonwealth in co-operation with the States. Clearly the Senate is aware that the States determine the areas which are designated national parks and are responsible for the control and management of the parks. We believe, as do many of the conservation groups, that the environmental factors have to be considered very seriously. We are lead to believe that the Democratic Labor Party is concerned about these matters. In point of fact, I recall that not so long ago  Senator Byrne  and some of his colleagues were quite vocal on the matter of the environment and the natural habitat, and with the assistance of the Australian Labor Party they were successful in carrying a resolution that the Senate request the Government to have another look at its softwoods legislation because the environment was very much affected by it. 
The topography of the area I have mentioned is unique. There are unusual sandstone bridges and gorges and prolific wildflowers and other flora, including waratahs angophoras and eucalypti, many of which take hundreds of years to grow. It is easy for man to take the easy way out and just move into these areas, but as far as we have been able to determine there has been no examination of the environmental factors. For instance, has any consideration been given to using railway reserves on either side of railway lines, electricity easements or main road reserves which in many cases exceed 150 feet, having regard to the fact that invariably these are public easements? Surely these are matters which ought to be examined by some responsible authority rather than hacking into the important national parks for which the constructors of the pipeline should have regard. Already, publicly owned areas abound right across our nation which would provide an opportunity to be used for the pipeline without raising the very many important environmental factors. 
Of course, the value of using existing public easements would be that in many cases they are close to the economic sinews of our nation. In other words, they invariably lead to towns, people and industry - the places where the markets are which will be of great value to the natural gas industry. The Australian Labor Party has made it clear and makes no secret of the fact that we will be establishing a public corporation to market natural gas. We wil) take into consideration the matters of the environment, decentralisation, the economy and the public interest. We will utilise the existing legislation which the Government proposes to pass in the dying stages of this Parliament and the proposed department of urban affairs will ensure that gas plays a vital part in the development of the new cities to which even this Government is now committed, having recognised belatedly the great problems in the cities and the need for an active policy of decentralisation. We will work in concert with the Stales because in the main they provide the public corridors that would enable natural gas to be brought from the fields where it abounds in great quantities into the areas where it will be able to play, as it has played in many countries, a very significant part in reducing production costs and providing cheaper fuel for the consumer. 
We are not adopting a revolutionary position on this matter. It will be recalled that when it was being debated on a previous occasion evidence given before the 
Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources was quoted. It suggested that Australia was in a somewhat unique position in not taking a lead from many countries overseas. I draw the Senate's attention to the evidence given by the General Manager of the Brisbane Gas Co. to that Committee. He said:   . . Australia is leaving herself in a somewhat unique position at this stage in not having a federal authority whereby transmission and distribution can be controlled. 
One finds it hard to understand the reluctance of the Government to give any serious consideration to how it will best use this new-found resource. The Government said in the document presented by  Sir Reginald  Swartz to which I referred previously that it will not permit, except in the most exceptional circumstances, the export of natural gas. It is prepared to exercise some controls in these matters but when it comes down to fitting this into a national plan, the Government seems reluctant to take even the first step of planning. At question time this morning the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  decried worker participation and the role of the trade unions in matters of political concern. It was pleasing to hear  Senator Little  draw attention to the fact that the trade unions, whose members' livelihoods are affected by the inability of the Government to play any meaningful role in the matter of the pipeline, have had to move themselves into somewhat of a vanguard position. Men of such eminence in the trade union movement as  Mr Short  of the Federated Ironworkers' Association of Australia,  Mr Garland,  one of the joint secretaries of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and  Mr Bevin,  the federal secretary of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society of Australia which has now amalgamated with other unions and formed the Amalgamated Metal Works Union have been active in drawing the attention of the Government to the grave consequences of its failure to recognise, failure to prepare and failure to plan for the needs of Australian industry in this matter of providing component parts for this very important new industry. 
There should be Government intervention in this field. Nothing I have heard from the Government speakers has shown me that there is any substance in their view that we have to leave the position willy-nilly to private enterprise to make all of the major decisions in this matter. The Government is now belatedly prepared to recognise the merit of the motion moved by  Senator Little.  This is somewhat of a somersault to its attitude of 3 weeks ago. I think it has been able to pick up the thread of public opinion which has been expressed in editorial comment and which has found its best expression in the Australian 'Financial Review' which stated that the basic question was the entire absence of a Federal Government policy and, for that matter, a State government policy. The costs of acquiring the private property and the public property which must be traversed by the pipeline, the economic consequences of natural gas, the effects upon the environment, the effects upon the future development of new cities and an active policy of decentralisation are surely all matters which come within the province of the Commonwealth. For example, we would say that any pipeline route that ignores the possibilities in the Hunter Valley area of New South Wales - I am sure that there will be similar areas in Victoria and other parts of Australia as this industry gets under way - is a short-sighted policy. It is short-sighted because the Commonwealth has not been prepared to recognise its responsibility in this matter.  Senator Little's  motion deals with this limited problem that has hit the Australian scene - the Moomba-Sydney pipeline - and restricts the Committee to an examination of that limited project, important as it is. The matter goes far beyond that. Therefore, the Australian Labor Party's amendment which looks at the real picture as it presents itself to Australia should be the one adopted by the Senate. 
 The Committee is debating the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1972 and any member of the Committee is entitled to move amendments to that Bill.  Senator Negus  has availed himself of the opportunity to draw the attention of the Committe to the areas of hardship that result from the provisions of this legislation which has been on the statute book since 1914. The Senate had an opportunity a week or so ago to determine a policy in respect of estate duty and it did so. But I put it to the Committee that the decision reached in the Senate was a pious, sanctimonious decision of little relevance to the problems of estate duty. The Senate was expressing an opinion. 
The legislation now before the Senate can be returned to the House of Representatives with a request from the Senate, and it can become law provided it receives majority support. The Government is endeavouring together with its allies, the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, to make this issue a political football. Clearly the issue of death duties has become a political football. This is not the motivation behind the amendment moved by  Senator Negus  or of those of us who are availing themselves of this opportunity to vote for a sectional approach to the problems associated with death duties. 
A year ago, the Senate recognised that this was an area of government finance which required examination, lt referred the matter of estate and like duties and their consequences to a Senate Standing Committee. The members of that Committee have toiled assiduously in undertaking that task in the succeeding 12 months. We are not in a position to make firm recommendations to the Parliament because we have not been able to complete our inquiries or our investigations and to come to any conclusions. 1 refrained from entering the debate because I believed that it was the responsibility of members of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations to adopt a non-partisan attitude in respect of the matters before it, as it had not completed its inquiries. In the Party room I succeeded in prevailing upon my colleagues not to make a determination in respect of estate duties until such time as the matter had been examined properly. 1 find the attitude of Government speakers hypocritical and sanctimonious. For the last 23 years they have had the opportunity to rectify the problems associated with estate duty. As late as the 1972-73 Budget they had the opportunity to rectify this matter in the Party room. If the 26 members of the Government parties in this place were not able to convince the other 60 members of their Party in the Party room then they lacked the logic and the argument to convince the Government that in the current Budget it should have abolished estate duties. 
The Government reacted to the unfavourable political climate that it is now experiencing and increased the maximum rate of exemption from $20,000 to $40,000 in order to take a small step along the path of reform of this legislation. It has become abundantly clear to anybody who has been studying this subject that it was not the intention of the framers of the legislation in 1914 that the kind of people who have been paying the bulk of estate duty should be the people who have been called upon to make the contributions that they make. I am sure that that position is so in respect to the State governments. The very wealthy have had resort to company lawyers and accountants and to the legal brains of this community, who have waxed fat during the past 20 to 30 years and who have advised their clients how to avoid their responsibility, while the Government sat stil] and took advantage of the inflationary period in order to bring in, from those sections of the community, which hitherto had not been involved in the payment of the duty, the extra money that it wanted. 
Because I am a member of a committee that is examining the matter. Until it makes its recommendations we will not be party to the blatant political opportunism that has been characteristic of the attitude of the honourable senator and his Party during the past month or so in relation to the Budget and all associated matters. If honourable senators opposite had convictions about the problems associated with estate duty their job was to rectify the problems in the Party room, and not in the Senate at this late stage. Being associated with a motion expressing an opinion does not influence me in any way, and I am sure that it does not influence the Government. The evidence that has been given before the Standing Committee does not endorse the decision made by the Senate in relation to the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
We are concerned with an abundance of attitudes and an abundance of evidence which shows that large numbers of people, particularly those in the rural areas, are affected by the inflationary situation and the problems of inflated valuations to which  Senator Withers  drew attention. Obviously these matters would cause the Standing Committee a great amount of concern and receive much consideration before the Committee made a determination. The Committee should be aware that if the Commonwealth should opt out of the field in the process of time, that will not solve the problems of the people to whom  Senator Negus's  amendment refers, because the States, which collect the greatest proportion of death duties, will still be in the field. The $70m annually that the Commonwealth collects is a very small sum when compared with the large and important sums that death duties under the various State Acts bring to State revenues. About 25 per cent of State revenues comes from that field. Unless there is an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States about this matter, clearly, if the Commonwealth opted out of the field and left it to the States, the States could increase the amount of duty which they impose, and the people about whom we are concerned - the people suffering hardship - would have little or no relief. 
The position of the Labor Party is clearly defined, lt is not prepared to act until the evidence that has been given to the Standing Committee has been evaluated and the Committee is able to make recommendations to the Senate. That Committee was set up unanimously a year or so ago by the Senate. It has heard evidence from accountants, lawyers, economists, university specialists in this field and ordinary people. It has not yet been able to make a recommendation. Therefore the Labor Party has not been prepared to make a determination on this matter, having regard to the fact that both the Commonwealth and the States are important ingredients in the solution to the whole problem of estate duty. We make no apologies for supporting the amendment moved by  Senator Negus.  We suggest that those honourable senators opposite who have spoken in the debate have had their opportunity over the years to solve the problems. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in making the Budget Speech in the House of Representatives, drew attention to the area of grave taxation anomalies. Because of those anomalies, 600,000 people were taken outside the taxation schedules. According to honourable senators opposite who have spoken in the debate, he could have taken the next step and recommended the complete abolition of death duties if the Government were sincere in this matter. I suggest that there is no sincerity on the part of the Government. There is certainly no sincerity on the part of the DLP members in relation to this matter. They have had opportunities to submit motions for the abolition of death duties in the years that they have been members of the Senate. The Labor Party's attitude is that it will examine the evidence that will be placed before the Standing Committee in 1973, and it will reach a determination which will be in the interests of the Australian people. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland) (9.18&gt;- I speak again in this debate because it is obvious that on this issue the Australian Labor Party Opposition has to stand and be counted. So far we have had the presentation of one alibi from the Labor Party. That alibi is that this matter has been referred to a standing committee of the Senate. The justification for opposing the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the. Bill and for opposing similar amendments that have been moved in the Senate is that the matter stands referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. That is the case of the Opposition. Let us take part of the. chronology of the matter. The matter which is before the Standing Committee is: 
The effects of estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties. 
That matter was referred to the Standing Committee by resolution of the Senate on 7th October 1971. The notice of motion seeking to refer that matter to the Standing Committee was moved in the Senate on 18th August 1971. That was the first time that the matter of referral to a committee was raised in the Senate. In 1970 I moved a specific amendment. 
that these matters should be fully examined with a view toearly relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act. 
Obviously, what the Australian Labor Party had in mind was merely the ameloration of the Act and not its repeal. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister noted that the United States Government has ordered a full scale inquiry into the loss of 2 Fill aircraft shot down in Vietnam, thus destroying the myth that these aircraft are invulnerable? In view of the hundreds of millions of dollars of public funds at stake, has the recent failure of these 2 FI 1 1 aircraft over North Vietnam led the Government to reconsider its order for 24 of them? Does the Minister now concede that the purchase of the planes does not appear to be as wise as the Government originally thought? 
I do not think anybody in the world, other than  Senator Gietzelt,  would suggest that an aircraft is invulnerable, particularly a military aircraft. The honourable senator is putting words into someone else's mouth when he suggests that the Government believed the Fill to be invulnerable. With respect, 'invulnerable' is the wrong word. This aircraft is a strike weapon. It is the most magnificent military aircraft ever created. One cannot base a question on a hypothetical situation. No-one on this side of the House and no-one in any defence force or any air force in the world believes that an aircraft is invulnerable. We believe that the Fill is a magnificent aircraft which will play a tremendously important part in the defence of this nation. Of course, that does not ignore the fact that certain situations have arisen with regard to them. Whilst we all deplore the tragedy of the loss of an aircraft, that of course provides lessons for us which should lead to a further examination of any aircraft that we have in mind, whether it be an Fill or a jet aircraft in the civil aviation field. 1 will put the question on notice to the Minister for Defence if the honourable senator wants me to do so but I do not think the question is appropriate for that course. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that of the numbers of students throughout Australia who commenced their secondary education in 1966 or 1967 only 26 per cent attending government schools enrolled for their final  year in 1971 while the corresponding figure for non-Catholic, non-government schools was 81.7 per cent? Does the Minister acknowledge that those figures highlight the inequalities existing in Australian education today? If not, how does the Minister explain the marked differences shown by the figures? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, relates to the 2 recent Sydney court cases concerning Yugoslav terrorists and statements made by the New South Wales Police and the victim of a bomb blast in Sydney. Did the Attorney-General note the police allegations that the 4 men who had been charged were members of the Croatian terrorist movement called the United Croats of West Germany and that one of the men was president of the movement in Sydney and Australia? Is he aware that all 4 men had been before courts on other occasions on charges of extreme violence? Can the Attorney-General tell the Senate the extent to which the involvement of Commonwealth policy has included investigations of possible breaches of the Commonwealth Crimes Act by Croatian terrorists? 
A few moments ago I asked the Attorney-General a question. I claim to have been misrepresented. I would like to set the record straight because I was quoting from a newspaper report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' headed 'Croats terrorists, police say'. Under the dateline of Thursday it states: 
Police alleged that 4 men charged in Redfern Court today were members of the Croatian terrorist movement United Croats of West Germany. 
I should like the Attorney-General to appreciate that it was not my terminology; it was the terminology of the New South Wales Police. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. How can the Government describe the slight fall in the September unemployment figures as significant when the seasonally adjusted figure fell only from 120,053 to 118,288 - a total reduction of 1,765 or a percentage reduction of 0.04? Does this mean that the Government regards this  level of unemployment as acceptable, when in fact there are now 24,640 more people out of work than there were last September - the highest level for September in 10 years? Also, how can the Government radiate optimism when the number of Australians on unemployment relief- 47,153 - is nearly twice that at the same time last year? 
On behalf of the Australian Labor Party I move, the following amendment to the motion for the second reading: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because, in its present form, it creates a mere investigating and advisory body which will have no authority - 
to cope with the problems of urban and regional development; 
to deal with the continuing growth  of  capital cities and regional  centres  and to integrate plans for transportation and .'and use; 
to co-ordinate the allocation of resources which affect urban and regional development; and 
to implement positive policies to ecafe new forms of urban living to overcome the chaos of our cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne'. 
It is clear that this legislation, which was the subject of a question a few moments ago, is a piece of post-Budget legislation in the sense that it was not provided for in the Budget allocation of funds. Clearly it is another example of indecent haste by an indecisive leader of an insecure government which is seeking to create in the dying stages of this Parliament an authority for the purpose of attempting to indicate to the people of Australia that there is a crisis of some description in urban affairs. This is the cutest piece of window dressing that has been before the Parliament in the last week or so. I am sure it will be seen as such by the people of Australia. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  interrupted the proceedings of the House of Representatives several weeks ago to make a statement on urban affairs. I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to a statement he made on television Channel 7 in Melbourne on 5th March this year. He said: 'Why commit yourself when it isn't necessary?' It is clear that he is committing himself in the establishment of this authority under this legislation because it is necessary. For proof of the insincerity of the Government and its principal spokesman, the Prime Minister, I would like to refer the Senate to a statement that the Prime Minister made at a civic reception in Springvale Town Hall, Melbourne, Victoria, on 19th May 1972. Among other things he said: 
There are some people in public life who find it fashionable these days to say that we have a crisis' in our cities, and that our problems are similar to those of comparable cities overseas. Such claims are, of course, wildly inaccurate. 
He went on to describe the aim of the Government as follows: 
We have, within this area of national economic policy, continually increased and improved our allocations to State and local governments. Before people become carried away with labels like 'urbanisation' or 'urban affairs' or the 'challenge of the cities', they should stop for a moment to consider the billions for schools, for housing, for roads, for hospitals that has come out of the many years of practical co-operation between the Commonwealth and State Governments under a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
It is clear that the Prime Minister is probably the last person in Australia to accept the realisation that Australia suffers from an urban crisis. The Prime Minister has finally seen the light, but it is the light which is coming out of the, end of the tunnel - because the Government is coming to the end of the line. Many words have been written over the last decade about our urban scene and about our dirty polluted sprawling cities being the result of our past indifference. So many words have 'been written about a Jack of co-ordination, a lack of foresight, hindsight and planning that I am sure many people have come to recognise that our environment is not planned despite the efforts of many wellmeaning public officials in the State and local spheres. Part of the cause is that there has been no Federal interest in these matters and responsibilities for our cities are divided among far too many public authorities. The Commonwealth has never considered the consequences of its own economic and social policies. 
The Commonwealth is now beginning - at the end of a 23-year term of office - to say: 'Well, we recognise now that with so many of our people living in the cities Australia has become the most highly urbanised country in the world, so we have to try to do something about the problem'. Speaking in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister said that 'lt is most important that the Government take responsible action which will influence the distribution of population and economic activity. It is rather strange, having regard to statements that he made only 5 months ago, that he should come to that conclusion. The last 23 years of Liberal-Country Party indifference will be characterised as the middle ages of Australian polities'. 
Our social services, our living standards and our environment have all been pushed aside by this Government and by its predecessors. Undoubtedly when the history of our country is written it will be recalled that the 1949 election was a disaster so far as Australia was concerned. 1 would like the Senate to have regard to what the Minister for Post-War Reconstruction,  Mr Dedman,  had to say in 1949 on regional development. He is recorded in Hansard as having said: 
If we are to develop to the full a country the size of Australia there should be the greatest possible balance in the distribution of population. We are looking to increase our population by large scale immigration. This will require new secondary industries to provide employment opportunities. These should be provided by developing the relatively smaller industrial centres rather than by the continual  development  of Sydney and Melbourne. 
It is pretty clear that this Government has stood on the sidelines in the 23 years since it assumed office in 1949. Whilst it adopted and carried forward the immigration policies of the Federal Labor Government ot the preceding period it rejected that Government's propositions relating to decentralisation and regional development. In the past 23 years the population in our rural areas in relation to our total population has, according to figures which are freely available from the Parliamentary Library, shown a decline from 31 per cent to 14 per cent. The Australian population has grown very considerably. In the post-war years - the period in which the Commonwealth Government was a Liberal-Country Party coalition - the Australian population increased by something in excess of 40 per cent. A very big proportion of that growth came about as a result of the immigration policy. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that of the  H  million people who have come to our shores in the period from 1950 to 1972 the statistics show that threequarters have settled in the major capital cities throughout Australia. 1 think the people of Australia will see this as another case of policy stealing. This Government is notorious as a policy scavenger. We have in recent times had introduced legislation on foreign investment, a matter which has been constantly put before the Parliament by the Australian Labor Party. We have seen legislation placed before the Parliament on restrictive trade practices, child care centres and monopolies. The Government has ordered an inquiry into poverty, whereas earlier this year the Prime Minister said that it was not necessary. The Government now proposes to abolish the means test. Tn 1961, 1964, 1966 and 1969, when the Australian Labor Party included this as part of its policy, the Government said that the nation could not afford it. As soon as peace is achieved in Vietnam, probably we will see the Liberal-Country Party Government pinching the foreign policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
These policies are plain imitations of the Labor Party's policies because this Government is incapable of producing the real thing. 1 think that the Government generally can be described as a hyena government, lt sits on the sideline picking the bones of its opposition. The Oxford Dictionary describes the hyena as an animal with powerful jaws but poor hindquarters. Certainly, this Government has powerful jaws, because over the last 6 or 7 weeks we have seen so much legislation forced through the House of Representatives and the .Senate in an attempt to make up the ground which the public opinion polls clearly show the. Government has lost in the community, lt is interesting to note that some 11 days before the Prime Minister made his first statement on this matter in the House of Representatives, which was on Tuesday, 19th September .1972, we received in the Parliamentary Library a copy of 'Focus' which is the official journal of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. In that journal there was an article calling for the Government to establish a policy in regard to cities. It stated: 
One of the most significant things the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  could do to ensure his re-election later this year would be to make it clear he appreciates the problem of the 'cities'. 
Nothing is included in the policies of either the Liberal Party or the Country Party from 1949 to 1969 to indicate that they have any realisation of the problems in the cities. Of course, the Country Party suddenly has seen the need to become fashionable and to talk about the quality of life and decentralisation. It has placed big advertisements in the Sydney newspapers. But it has had opportunities to do something about these problems in the years during which it has been the junior partner in the coalition Government. It is a rather ludicrous and irresponsible action on the part of the Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  to be talking about the need for decentralisation. That Party has had the opportunity to do something in this field and clearly has not accepted any responsibilities until the last few weeks before the 1972 elections. 
The rural community is represented in the Houses of Parliament by the powerful Country Party, whose influence generally is exerted on behalf of the graziers rather than the people who live in the provincial towns and cities. As a consequence, there are many Federal government departments and State government departments, marketing boards, research bodies such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and other organisations and many subsidies for farmers that all carry out the policies enunciated by the Country Party. Yet we have never seen any meaningful attempt on its part, to establish policies associated with life in the cities. So the Country Party's new-found interest in decentralisation has to be seen as plain political opportunism. Of course, the present New South Wales Government in the 6 years it has been in office has spent a great deal of money in endeavouring to arrest the decline in population in rural areas and to have industry established in a great number of country centres. But it has failed. It has baulked at the responsibility of establishing regional growth centres because of the. obvious political disadvantages which would accrue to the Country Parly. The efforts of the State LiberalCountry Party Government in New South Wales largely have been dissipated by not having an association with long term regional planning. Everyone concerned with decentralisation recognises that it is essential to establish centres with a population of about 100,000. They then become self-generating bodies capable of attracting population and industry and of standing on their own feet in relation to urban matters. 
Since 1955 the Commonwealth has appropriated $4,000m in excess taxation. Probably a better term would be that it has misappropriated this amount, because it has put it in trust funds and has failed to make any of it available for improving the quality of life in the urban areas or for carrying out any meaningful policy of decentralisation. In terms of population, the people of Sydney have paid $825n and the people of Melbourne have paid $7 16m in excess taxation. This works out at about §300 per head of population. For New South Wales the figure would be SI, 377m and for Victoria the figure would be SI, 034m. If properly applied, this money would have enabled the quality of life in our cities to be improved and would have arrested the decline in population in our rural areas. 
The Government is on record as refusing time and time again to accept any responsibility for these matters. I have said before - 1 repeat it in the terms of our amendment - that the Government makes no financial assistance available for this purpose. It proposes to establish an authority which will pontificate and seek to plan some policies associated with regional development, but it will do nothing that would enable the State governments and the semi-government and local government authorities to carry out the improvement of the quality of life which, in the thinking of the Prime Minister in his newfound conversion to a policy of decentralisation, is so much needed. 
Official documents from the Commonwealth Auditor-General show that in 1962- 63 the Commonwealth gave 25.1 per cent of its national revenue to the States in capital grants and reimbursements. In 1971-72 the level dropped to 24.8 per cent. I hope that time will be available to me to draw to the attention of the Senate and the Australian people the hypocrisy of the Government in talking about establishing an authority which will change the whole fabric of our society, which will arrest the decline of the quality of life in the cities, and which will bring about a regeneration of life in our rural areas. The problem is not only a philosophical one. Of course, we will challenge the Government that it is on that point that it is in error. The problem ako has its basis in the evolution of the structure of governments in Australia. The major services which are essential to the quality of life fall within the province of the State governments and their various instrumentalities which obviously are very jealous of their sovereign rights. The responsibilities are handed down to a myriad of government departments and agencies and ad hoc bodies. Clearly these bodies have to compete in the financial queue every year for sufficient, or insufficient, funds to carry out their responsibilities. 
We have local government authorities. No Federal government can talk about urban matters or regional development without relating them to the problems of State finance, semi-government finance and local government finance. To take but one example, about 140 bodies have a say in the provision of services and in the planning of the Sydney metropolitan area. In most of the other States, with the exception of Queensland, the picture is the same. The Commonwealth accepts its responsibility to raise the bulk of taxation but until now it has washed its hands of urban affairs. If we are really to interest ourselves in these matters we will be required to make heavy investments of public funds and to carry out this plan in consultation with the States. How can we talk about the quality of life and urban affairs if we do not have some regard for the fact that more than  i  million people of Australia in the major cities are still awaiting sewerage services? 
Let me quote from a document published on 9th May 1972 following the Conference of Australian Water and Sewerage Authorities in Sydney. It was estimated that about $2, 500m would need to be spent in the next decade if the authorities are to keep pace with development and to make a reasonable impact on the backlog of works. The Commonwealth has been asked time and lime again to make funds available to these ad hoc bodies to carry out their responsibilities, but it has refused. In 1970  Mr Whitlam  tried to draw the attention of Parliament to this need by moving the following motion: 
The need for the Commonwealth to assist the finances and functions of semi-government and local government authorities. 
On purely Party lines, including the Country Party and its Leader,  Mr Anthony,  the House of Representatives rejected that proposition. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' had this to say at the time: 
The Federal Treasurer is making a serious mistake in casting aside the financial problems of local government as readily as he did in replying to the Opposition "s urgency motion in Parliament this week. Washing his hands of a grass-roots  problem which is bedevillingthe large urban populations of Australia will not win the Government friends. 
Some 6 months later the 'Sydney Morning Herald' had this to say: 
Australian politicians spend a great deal of time these days talking about the 'quality of life' issue. Yet local government, which exercises fundamental control over this field, is continually spurned by superior governments. 
I wish to refer to recent occasionsI am talking of the period from 1950 to 1972 on which requests have been made of the Government in this regard. A public convention of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations was held in Melbourne in 1950.  Mr Menzies  was the first Prime Minister to be invited and to attend such a convention. Recently the present Prime Minister attended such a convention here in Canberra. The official record of the 1950 convention states: 

 Mr Menzies demonstrated his keen appreciation of the need for placing Local Government on a sounder basis when he advocated the calling together of representatives of Commonwealth, State and Local Government not for a day or two but for a prolonged examination of responsibilities and resources andthe steps necessary for readjustment. 
Time will not permit me to read more than a few extracts from the record of the  proceedings  of the 1965 conference of the  Australian  Council of Local Government Associations. The Prime Minister of the day, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, said: 
You wrote to me on 21st January, forwarding two resolutions in regard to local government finance which your Council adopted at its Conference in November 1964. 
As I note that the first resolution is substantially similar to that which was conveyed to me early last year I can do no more than restate and confirm the Commonwealth's attitude to the proposal as previously explained to your Council. Under the established constitutional division of responsibilities and financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States, it is for the Stale Governments to evaluate the needs of local authorities and to meet those needs from within their own resources. 
Lest anyone should imagine that the Prime Minister has had a change of heart, let me read what he had to say on 10th August 1971 in reply to a letter from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations: 
The Commonwealth is, of course, very much aware of the difficulties faced by local government authorities throughout Australia and we will certainly examine closely any report that might be submitted to us on local government finances. 
Incidentally, such a report subsequently was submitted. The Prime Minister went on to state: 
However,I emphasise that the Commonwealth's basic attitude remains that it is a matter for State Governments to decide on the revenue resources that should be available to local authorities to enable them to provide the various community services for which they have been made responsible under State laws. 
On 20th July this year the Prime Minister condescended and finally agreed to meet representatives from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations having declined previously but having felt the cold winds of change blowing. The official report of that meeting states: 
<para pgwide="yes">The Prime Minister recalled that at the recent Loan Council meeting, the limit of local government borrowings without the approval of the Loan Council had been raised from $300,000 to $400,000. 
This was a clear indication of the Federal Government's concern for local government and it was hoped that this liberalisation would improve the range of local government activities. 
Since 1964 local government authorities throughout Australia have been restricted to borrowings of $300,000 and, with the effluxion of time and inflation, the additional $100,000 does no more than make up for the loss in the value of money. 
The Prime Minister finally was prevailed upon to attend the 1972 Conference of the Local Government Association which was held in Canberra. Of course, he used the opportunity to attack the policies of the Australian Labor Party. He offended most of the delegates by adopting a party political attitude. He attempted to indicate to that conference that the Labor Party would adopt a very dramatic approach to local government; that it intended drastically to alter the whole structure of local government. I refer now to the official policy statement of the New South Wales Branch of the Local Government Association which was presented to  Mr Whitlam  and to all members of the Government parties. On page 6 it states: 
It has long been the view of local government in New South Wales that there are areas or administration which call for attention at a level between that of the State Government and that of the local council. . . . 
It is in the urban situation, however, that the role of a regional council or as it would more appropriately be termed, a metropolitan governmentcan be more clearly seen and is certainly more urgent. 
I quote that because the Prime Minister said that it was the Australian Labor Party's policy to abolish many local councils and to establish regional bureaucratic organisations. The document continues: 
If we take the Sydney region as an example, we have the situation of the nation's largest concentration of population, being without any politically responsible body to act as its spokesman. Sydney, in fact, is a classic example of the 'fragmented' governmental structure. At local level there are some 40 municipalities and shires, and at regional level there are a score or more of semi-government or other statutory bodies, dealing in each case wilh only one type of service, and covering most or all of the Sydney region, but lacking any type of common boundary. Ultimate responsibility for the metropolitan region rests wilh the State government, which is necessarily responsible to the whole State, not the metropolis. 
So the views of the Leader of the Australian Labor Party, who is attempting to get a better rationalisation of local and semi-government authorities, represent part of the change in the whole urban scene. Accordingly, we drafted the amendment in order to bring to the Senate's attention the need to adopt a much bolder attitude to the whole problem of urban affairs. The problem cannot be solved unless the Commonwealth becomes intimately involved.  Mr Whitlam  - a year ago - stated: 
It is an Australian paradox that the authority which accepts the greatest responsibility for raising and allocating funds for housing and roads should not accept a parallel responsibility for planning the use to which these funds are put, or ensuring that other authorities adequately plan such use. 
Professor Winson, when referring to urban affairs and the question of State and semigovernment responsibilities, stated: 
The Commonwealth is planning major projects such as a new international airport, which vitally affect the city. 
He was referring to Sydney - 
Its defence areas around Sydney Harbour are outside the control of city planning. The Commonwealth is responsible for the role of immigration and for trade, for industry and for shipping. There is no doubt the Commonwealth has a large influence in the cities. But it does not acknowledge its responsibilities. The problem of the cities requires money and only the Commonwealth can provide the money on the scale required. 
That brings me back to the point I made earlier: The Commonwealth has not attempted in this legislation, nor did it in the Budget which was debated in this Senate less than a week ago, to provide a financial assistance so that the Authority, or the State, semi-government and local government bodies, will have the financial means to tackle the problems facing our nation, whether they be in the urban areas or in the rural communities. Under this legislation the Prime Minister seeks to establish an organisation based on himself and the 6 Premiers. What a rare dish - for these 7 gentlemen to sit at a table and expect to agree on national planning. It will be a septilateral monstrosity; it will be most unlikely to reach any agreement on the whole question of urban and regional development. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
On behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I move the following amendment: 
At the end of motion add, 'but the Senate is of the opinion - (a) that the Commonwealth Government should take the initiative to establish child care centres to meet the needs of working mothers, and should do this on a basis of priorities, to give maximum advantage to a maximum number of families, rather than leave the provision of this service to the chance interest of employers and local authorities, and (b) that child care centres should be within the province of the Department of Education and Science, and should be part of a pre-school system developed progressively throughout the nation'. 
Pre-school centres, or the lack of them, have been the subject of a great deal of concern in the community, not only to parents but also to psychiatrists and teachers. The community generally has been very critical of the Government's failure to provide these essential services for the very young members of our community. I am sure it was the realisation of this that prompted  Mr Gorton  in the 1970 Senate election campaign to say on 4th November - almost 2 years ago - at the Malvern Town Hall:  1 now announce  a  new objective to which we give very high priority. That is, the establishment of child care centres for children of pre-school agc. 
In Australia, as in other advanced countries overseas, married women - including those with children of pre-school age - are entering regular employment in increasing numbers. Thus, in the decade 1960-70 the number of married women in the work force almost doubled - from 9.3 per cent to 18.3 per cent. 
We wish to ensure that the children of these women have every opportunity for the fullest development in both the emotional and physical sense. Studies made by the Department of Labour and National Service show that existing facilities to ensure this are woefully inadequate. 
It is therefore somewhat surprising that at the end of the parliamentary session, in one of the last dozen Bills to be passed through this House - it was one of the last Bills to be passed through the House of Representatives - we should be seeking to bring into effect a promise that was made during the 1970 Senate election campaign. Subsequently the Federal Government changed its attitude and its Prime Minister, and the well made plans of Prime Minister Gorton were relegated when  Mr McMahon  became the Prime Minister. Soon after  Mr McMahon  became Prime Minister, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  in reply to a question in the House of Representatives, said: 
During the 1970 Senate campaign the Government announced as a new Commonwealth initiative a scheme to assist in the operation of childminding centres. . . . 
Then he we:. t on to say: 
These facts have not changed and neither has the Government. What has changed is the economic situation, which may be a matter of some surprise to the Opposition. It is because of this Government's appreciation of the importance of restraining inflationary pressures in the community that we determined a policy of curtailing Commonwealth expenditure. 
This has been the policy of the present Prime Minister for a considerable number of years. T had hoped to say something about this matter in the previous debate on urban affairs. I draw the Senate's attention to statements made in the 3 years in which  Mr McMahon  was the Federal Treasurer. I refer, in particular, to his Budget speech for 1967-68 in which he said: 
One reason why wc have drawn the reins on public spending more tightly than before is to provide room for balanced expansion of the private sector. For some years now the public sector has been setting the pace and doing so strongly. 
He said more or less the same thing the following year and the year after that. The Budget documents for the year ended 30th June 1972 show the Commonwealth expenditure and income in the years 1970-71 and 1971-72. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his second reading speech on Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1972- 73 drew attention to the fact that the child care scheme will cost the Commonwealth $4.8m. In 1970-71, which was the year immediately associated with the statements of ex-Prime Minister Gorton to which I have referred, the Commonwealth took $430m out of Federal revenue and put it into the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Fund, and the following year it took out another $543m. So the Commonwealth took almost $ 1, 000m out of circulation and put it aside in a trust fund, and something like $2, 750m of that amount still remains in that fund. 
In 1970 the Commonwealth expressed the view that there was an urgent need for child care centres, and  Mr Gorton  said that he would give the matter very high priority. Now we have the Government saying that it is prepared to allocate §4.8m in the current financial year for child care centres, that the expenditure will rise to $6.5m in a full year, and that in the first 3 years of the scheme approximately $23m will be made available for this purpose. I challenge the Government to prove that the expenditure of such a small amount of money as is involved here would have created any of the inflationary pressures for which the Commonwealth itself was responsible, because if one examines the Budget income from 1970-71 through to the current year one finds increases in every sector of Government expenditure. The Government was prepared to put aside this important question of child care centres. 
Let us look at the Bill itself. Child care must concern itself with mental health - an integral part of the problem - with the welfare of working mothers and with their pre-school children. But where we differ from the Government, as we have said in our amendment, is that the Government is making no attempt to provide for the educational or mental health aspects in the establishment of child care centres. The Government will place the responsibility for those matters largely on the people in the community who are prepared to activate themselves either at the industrial or the local level. The Government is placing the responsibility on any well meaning people in the community who are prepared to band together to assist in establishing child care centres. It has been established beyond any reasonable shadow of a doubt that there is a need for a loving and continuous relationship between any child under 3 years of age and its mother or, if the mother is dead or is not able to fill tha: role, some mother image. This is very important for the mental development and subsequently for the personality development of the child. When one considers that at the present time there are 1,261,610 children under 4 years of age in Australia, one can appreciate the great and urgent need to provide child care facilities. 
The Minister in his second reading speech drew attention to the fact that at the present time in Australia there are some 80 child care centres operating on a non-profit basis. What a great indictment it is of our society and of the Commonwealth which took 21 years, to 1970, to realise that there is a social need for child care centres and which has taken another 2 years - 23 years in total - to bring this legislation before the Parliament. At this rate, clearly millions of young children in our community will not have the advantages of a proper child care relationship with their mother and with other children. The principal objective of the Commonwealth is set out clearly in a pamphlet entitled 'Women in the Work Force' which was published by the Department of Labour and National Service. The pamphlet states: 
The Department - 
After all, this must be said to represent the Government's viewpoint -  is interested in the developing role of women in the work force and is concerned with encouraging the best possible use of the talents and abilities of Australian women. 
In introducing this legislation the Government was not concerned for the child or for the mental health of the child or the mother. Those who advocate an increase in the number of working mothers do so in order to increase national productivity. Those who permit an economic situation in which mothers are forced to work jeopardise the mental health not only of the mother but also of future generations. 
A great deal of research has been carried out into the area of children under 5 years of age. I have been surprised to find that the Government largely has ignored a great deal of the advice which is available. The Plowden report - this was a report in the United Kingdom; the British Government has made many surveys and has carried out a great deal of research in these areas - states:  lt is generally undesirable except to prevent  a  greater link to separate mother and child for  a  whole day in a nursery  5  days a week. 
It recommended that mothers of young children should be encouraged to spend as much time as possible with young children or, if there are economic pressures that require a mother to go to work, then governments need to give consideration to the provision of special allowances in the form of financial relief to a mother so that a mother is not separated from a child under  4  years of age. Most mothers go to work for economic reasons. It is true, and I think it can be established across the board, that some women find the need to work for their own mental stimulation. However, if a government were sincere it would give a substantial allowance to those mothers who would otherwise elect to go to work, to stay at home to care for their young children. It is recognised that some mothers want child care centres for their own self-fulfilment. It is true, having regard to the state of health of the mother or the state of home and tensions, that some children would benefit from the tensionfree environment which they would probably find in a child care centre. Nevertheless, experts say that the overriding consideration is that  3  to  5  years is the most desirable age for the child to have a mother relationship. We certainly agree that each individual varies. Therefore the legislation needs to be very flexible. 
If the Government really wanted to play its part in this area of child care and also give some recognition of the. economic pressures in our community on the low income groups it should set out to organise part time work rather than full time work generally. I am sure that the. Government would find and the community would find that this overall would be in the interests of the child. Differences exist about the centres themselves. It seems to me that the legislation which the Government has before this place seeks to give overemphasis on having these centres established at the place of work. It is true that a great number of people have differences of opinion in this area. Specialists who have studied the problem find that it is difficult to come to any conclusion but I think, largely speaking, that child care centres should be established in the community. They should be part of community life. They should be self acting organisations, probably under the care, control and management of the local authorities, with local committees seeking to operate them in the interests of self management. 
The Commonwealth should provide adequate subsidies so that the emphasis is on the educational side and not so much on the raising of finance, which is the principal factor in the activities of the existing child care centres in Australia. In his second reading speech  Senator Greenwood  drew attention to the fact that about 80 child care centres are operating on a nonprofit basis throughout Australia. There is abundant evidence to show that large numbers of privately run child care centres are conducted without adequate provision in a backyard fashion by untrained people giving no really detailed or fundamental attention to the development of the personality of the child. It is true that the legislation seeks to make a movement in the direction of improving this problem by giving some encouragement and initiative to those who are prepared on the industrial level or the local level to establish additional child care centres. 
Part (a) of the Labor Party's amendment is a move to provide for greater Government involvement in the setting up of centres throughout Australia. The Government's aversion to Commonwealth controls is again manifest in the legislation. Instead of taking the initiative in this proposal the Government proposes to encourage interested groups to do its work for it. The thought that immediately springs to mind here is: If there is no interested group to set up centres in an area even though there is an urgent need, no centres will be established. It will be just bad luck for mothers and children living in those areas. The Bill assumes that there will be no problem about it. Clearly if there were no problem there would be no need for the Government to take this belated step wilh this legislation. I ask the Minister: On what basis or on what research or information is this assumption founded? I believe there is none. This is a simple error in the drawing up of what can only be described as a piece of hastily drawn up legislation. Making available unmatched grants is no guarantee that centres will be supplied in all regions where they are necessary. 
It is clear that this Bill is but another piece of pre-election propaganda such as we have seen in recent times. It is a show piece for the Liberals' campaign. ] shall outline some of the facts which justify those remarks. The Bill makes provision for only 3,000 children in the first full year. In the Minister's second reading speech he stated a figure of 150,000 preschool age children whose mothers are working. At this rate it would be 50 years before the Government's plans could cater for the present needs, and that is not having regard to the increase in population. The Government shows its contempt for the intelligence of the people of Australia when it slates that this Government's initiative is a tangible expression of its very real and proper concern for the welfare of children. This Government's initiative - hardly the right word - is designed as nothing more than a vote catcher in the coming election. There is a vast difference between passing a Bill such as this and actually setting up a comprehensive policy and framework to achieve the desired objectives. 
In a feature article in the Sydney 'Sun' several months ago it was pointed out that at present only 40 pre-school teachers graduate from training colleges each year but facilities have improved and the intake next year will be doubled. So the question of providing trained teachers, which I know the Government has recognised as part of the problem, will be a major obstacle to giving every child whose mother has to work the right and facility to do so. Of course, that does not take into consideration those mothers who want to work for their own reasons - not necessarily economic reasons - and who want to avail themselves of the facilities of a child care centre. Clearly the priority question which we stress in our amendment is going to be of great significance. 
If the Commonwealth were in control it would be able to keep a low uniform fee for this service. Surely this is an important factor in the consideration of the whole matter. Fees should be low enough to enable everyone to avail themselves of the facilities. Of course, if the emphasis is to lend encouragement to working mothers the question of fees becomes a very important consideration. But there is nothing in the legislation to ensure that the fees will be minimal. The New South Wales Child Welfare Department has expressed concern at the number of unqualified and often indifferent housekeepers and nannies who are caring for children in their own homes. If charges are not removed altogether or kept to a minimum this undesirable situation which is now rampant in the developing areas of the major cities will be allowed :o continue. Sister Emms, the occupational health nurse at a small arms factory in Lithgow has made some relevant comments about this matter. In a report entitled 'Pre- school Centres in Industry', prepared by a sub-committee of the Industry Standing Committee of the New South Wales Association for Mental Health, a body subsidised by the New South Wales Department of Health, Sister Emms had this to say: 
I have seen and heard of sick children being bundled out of their homes to be handed over to untrained people to be minded. In my opinion a number of these children are not adequately fed or cared for. I think this makes the children feel unwanted and insecure and that they will be the problem children in the future. 
A number of cases from this report should be referred to because they give some indication of the sort of problem which exists in our community at the moment. Cases occur of children left unattended in cars. There are other children not being given any real consideration by the people whose responsibility it is to look after them. Sometimes children are left in their homes while a parent working at a nearby factory has an arrangement with the factory to go every so often to check whether they are alive and well. These sorts of abnormal situations which exist within our community are surely matters which must concern those of us who have responsibility in government. The Labor Party feels that the only way to put an end to these occurrences is to minimise the charges and establish more child care centres of a higher quality. The only way that this can be done is through a government run, government subsidised scheme. According to the New South Wales Department of Child Welfare existing child care centres cater for only 2.8 per cent of pre-school children and only 6 per cent of 3 to 5-year-olds. A subcommittee of the New South Wales Association for Mental Health expresses the opinion that in many areas the situation is even worse than the figures indicate. 
The sub-committee points out that privately run centres are usually concentrated in the middle income areas and that numerous low income areas with large populations are virtually without centres: examples include Villawood, Green Valley, Fairfield and Botany. It is interesting to note that about 50 child care centres are already operating in Canberra. If that same ratio applied right throughout Australia the resultant situation would be one that this Parliament could be much more happy about than it is at the moment. Sweden, a frontrunner in this field, aims at catering for 80 per cent of pre-school children. The Australian Capital Territory caters for 31 per cent of 3 to 5-year-olds. What is the figure the Government has in mind for the whole of Australia? I think we are entitled to compare the S23m which the Commonwealth says it will make available over the next 3 years with the $1,00Om that the Government has taken out of revenue in the last 2 years since  Mr Gorton  made his famous pledge in 1970 and say that the sort of money we are asking for is not beyond the financial resources of the Commonwealth. 
One of the few desirable features in the Bill is that the relocation should be according to need while the great shortage exists. We are pleased that some recognition has been given to this factor. I will take it one step further and say that placement should be on a part time basis where possible and while the shortage lasts. Judging by the provisions of the Bill the shortage will last for many years if this Government is returned at the election at the end of this year. I think we should also consider the granting of a special allowance to mothers of children under 3 years old, as is done now in some of the more advanced countries such as Hungary and Austria, so that the financial pressures which force women to work during this period are eased, if not removed altogether. That treatment brings into sharp relief the failure of the Government to pay decent allowances to young mothers to encourage them to stay with their children in the early formative years. 
I would like to now discuss where these centres should be situated - near the home or near the place of employment. There is considerable diversity of opinion about this point. Some authorities such as Professor Hugh Philip, Professor of Education at Macquarie University, have expressed doubt that such industrial centres are in the best interests of the child. Further matters should be considered when talking about locating centres in or around factories or in industrial areas, especially if they are to be set up and controlled by employers. It has been suggested that one drawback to these proposals is that the employer would gain a lien on the mother, who may tolerate adverse working conditions in return for care of her child.  Mr G.  W. Ford, a senior lecturer in industrial relations at the University of New South Wales, warns of the possibility of new industrial issues arising between management and unions if firms become involved in the establishment of such centres. He considers the possibility of some unions taking the view that firms would be tying people down and consequently reducing their bargaining position. He considers, and I and the Labor Party agree, that community centres are more desirable so that no complications would occur if there were lay-offs or strikes. 
I will use the rest of the time available to me to discuss a matter which I feel is directly related to a Bill such as this one. The issues of a Bill of this nature are not just those concerned with the caring of children. They are just as much concerned with the issue of women in society. It is a sad reflection on a western male-oriented society such as ours that this matter has received so little attention in the past, lt is contemptible that such an important matter is only now being brought forward. European, particularly Scandinavian, countries made advances in this field as long ago as 10 years. For too long men in legislatures such as this Parliament have been prepared to compel women to stay at home and occupy themselves with domestic duties. While most women who work are forced to do so for purely financial reasons, large numbers of them are seeking employment for other than financial reasons. They are seeking mental stimulation in an effort to break out of the kitchen, bedroom and vegetable bonds in which men of the past have kept them. Every assistance must be therefore given to women wishing to break out of the traditional housewife role. This Bill directly relates to their ability to do so. As I said earlier, it is disgraceful that the commencement of any initiative has not occurred until the end of 1972. lt may seem ridiculous to be talking about women's rights in 1972, but it is even more ridiculous that there is a need to do so in 1972. While there is a shortage of places in child care centres, we agree that priority should be given to the children of working mothers and that special arrangements should be made to enable the closest relationship between the working mother and the child. However, in the long term, when these shortages are overcome I feel that free child care centres should be available to all mothers so that those who wish to pursue careers and interests in the same manner as men may do so. The provisions of this Bill in our view are totally inadequate and display just how out of touch the Government is with trends and sociological changes occurring in Australia and all over the world. We suggest that the Senate consider the amendment that we have proposed because it will place the question of priorities rather than the needs of industry in the forefront. It will insist upon the emphasis on education being part of the overall consideration of the Bill. It should not be seen only in the limited concept of child care centres. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of this Government's long involvement with the Saigon regime in Vietnam, will it exert all its influence on President Thieu to persuade him to co-operate with the United States of America in that country's attempt to gain a ceasefire? Will the Government state firmly now that Australia will support American endeavours for peace in this tragic war and will not assist President Thieu in his efforts to frustrate and delay a just political solution to the conflict? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to reports that accredited journalists and leaders of the African National Liberation Movement have been arbitrarily arrested by the illegal regime operating in Rhodesia? Will the Government take steps to have these undemocratic moves aired in the United Nations so that citizens in that unhappy country may be protected against apprehension and indefinite detention? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that new regulations governing admission to private nursing homes were made by the defeated Liberal-Country Party Government? Is the Minister aware that a considerable number of doctors either own or have a financial interest in many of the 382 private nursing homes registered under the National Health Act? Is it not true that under the ethics of the Australia Medical Association doctors are required not to have a financial interest in pharmacies? In view of the controversy initiated by a noisy minority of doctors involved in nursing home businesses, will the Minister make representation to the AMA suggesting that . their ethical approach to pharmacies should be extended to nursing homes? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that last August the Yugoslav Ambassador,  Mr Vidovic,  officially complained to the Australian Government that Australia was being used by Croatian terrorists as a training ground? Has the Minister any comments to make on reports that since the federal election more than 200 terrorists have left Australia to carry on their activities elsewhere? Has the Government any plans to control the actions of hard core terrorists, including their departure from our shores? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the Paris Accords stipulate the release of all prisoners of war from North and South Vietnam and the release of political prisoners from detention in South Vietnam and that these releases should be completed within 60 days from the signing of the Vietnam Peace Agreement? Has it been brought to the notice of the Government that scores of thousands of political prisoners - some say 200,000 - are languishing in gaols in South Vietnam and that many of them have now been reclassified as common criminals? Would the Government consider making urgent representations to the Thieu regime suggesting that the return to normal conditions of national reconciliation and democratic government in South Vietnam will be impossible unless all such persons are given their freedom and an opportunity to participate in the rehabilitation of Vietnam? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer had an opportunity to examine the legislation establishing the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the body to which claimant States can apply for special Commonwealth grants? Does the Government propose to alter the franchise of the Grants Commission in order to permit all State governments, semi-government bodies and local government organisations to apply for special assistance to overcome the backlog of public works? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Has the Minister been able to make an examination of the files dealing with the Jetair transaction? Will he ascertain whether the file made available to the Senate last year includes all the documents on the sale of Government aircraft to the Jetair organisation at bargain prices? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation aware that there are now only 58,300 survivors of the Boer War and World War 1, according to figures supplied from the Repatriation Department? Further, is he aware that 21,289 of such ex-servicemen are now in receipt of war pensions or special rate pensions? In view of the Government's announced policy of abolition of the means test and as most of the remaining 63 per cent of those surviving- persons receive the aged persons social service payment, would he give consideration to recommending that the 37,000 ex-servicemen concerned be all granted the full war pension as an act of grace? 
My question is directed to  Senator Wriedt  both in his capacity as Minister for Primary Industry and as the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has his attention been drawn to the impending visit of a representative group of Australian capitalists to the People's Republic of China seeking trade relations with that country? Is he aware that a similar group of top captains of English industry is already on its way to China? Does this reflect a mature attitude on the part of the British Conservative Government and of the new Australian Labor Government, and refute the ludicrous and inane approach of those in this country who frown on normal relationships with Asian countries? Is there any possibility that representatives from Australian primary industry may be included in the Australian delegation? 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask whether it is not a fact that  Mr Whitlam,  when Leader of the Opposition, asked the then Attorney-General,  Mr 
Hughes, the following question, as reported on page 31 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 4th March 1970: 
Is it thought that  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth? Alternatively, now that he is in Australia, is any investigation being undertaken lo ascertain whether he has broken any law of the Commonwealth? 
I also ask whether the Liberal AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Hughes,  did not reply as follows-  1 do not propose to give any opinion as to whether  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth. What I will say, however, is that I, as the principal law officer of the Crown, do not propose, as at present advised, to bring any charges against him..... 
Did the Minister representing the Treasurer see the television program This Day Tonight' of 26th instant which suggested that to the detriment of individual home owners major development companies have been large-scale borrowers of funds from the permanent building societies operating in New South Wales? Is the Minister able to say whether the funds of the national Superannuation Board have been used by large-scale developers or insurance companies? Does the Minister recall the statement made by the Auditor-General on page 35 of his report for the year 1971-72 - 1 referred this statement to the previous Minister last year - which reads: 
Reference is made in my previous reports to the position whereby, annual financial statements of the Superannuation Board since 1967-68 have disclosed unsatisfactory features which have resulted in the inability of the Superannuation Board to present statements in an  acceptable  form for audit examination. 
As this unsatisfactory position has existed now for 6 years, will the Minister take steps to have made available to the Senate the names of all persons, companies and/ or group which have borrowed the $347m shown in the Auditor-General's report for 1971-72 over the period 1962 to 1972, so that an examination can be made to see who has benefited from the use of loan and mortgage funds by decision of the Superannuation Board? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property refers to the fact that 500,000 people will become eligible to be enrolled because of the recent decision to lower the voting age to 18 years. Will the Minister make arrangements for electoral officers to visit all high schools, technical colleges and universities to advise on procedure for voter registration? Will the Minister also give consideration to a nationwide television campaign to ensure that all these new eligible voters are made aware of their responsibility to enrol? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Will the Minister conduct an inquiry to determine which officers interviewed those migrants who, on the basis of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and Commonwealth Police reports, have been involved in terrorist activities? While appreciating that the time of entry for some was over a period, will he seek an explanation from these officers as to why they were allowed into Australia? Will he ensure that the screening processes of his Department are tightened to ensure that such undesirables are refused entry in the future? 
Has the Minister assisting the Prime Minister received a com munication from the Executive Committee of the Australian Council of Churches proposing that the Government establish a ministry for peace and international development? Does the Minister agree that such a ministry would enhance prospects for a more equitable and more peaceful world? Does the Minister agree that the furthering of both of these causes is vital to Australia's interests and to overcoming gross inequities, poverty and the frustration of the great majority of the people of the world? Will the Minister discuss the matter with the Prime Minister as the proposal extends beyond the current responsibilities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that certain computer equipment exists in the Reserve Bank that is designed to inform the Government on a regular basis on the economic criteria in relation to Australia's internal and external financial position? Is it a fact that this equipment was installed by the great multi-national body, International Business Machines, and is maintained and operated by that organisation? Would he investigate the operation of this equipment, as it is said that highly confidential and top secret information prepared by this equipment is constantly monitored by certain quarters in the United States of America? Can he say whether the United States controlled communication base operated in Australia could be used to relay this information to a foreign power, namely, the United States of America? 
ls the AttorneyGeneral aware that there were numerous raids by Commonwealth and State police, during the period of office of the previous Government, on alleged terrorists and that those raids all took place predawn? Does the Attorney-General agree that these raids were clearly organised to catch persons in their own homes as raids at any other time would probably not produce any tangible results? Has the Minister seen the objectionable editorial in the Sydney 'Sun' of 2nd April 1973 and noted the unusual remarks of the Premier of New South Wales suggesting that there was something ominous about the pre-dawn raids by the Commonwealth and State police last week-end? 
 I welcome the opportunity to join in this debate because on the occasion when the previous Opposition attempted to debate the matter of terrorism and violence in Australia the majority on the other side of the Senate denied us an opportunity to move a motion that sought to refer to the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the complaints of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia about bases and training facilities in Australia and the questions of whether there had been any terrorism, violence or any illegal activity engaged in in Australia and whether any Australian facilities had been available to terrorists. On that occasion the automatic majority that existed in the Senate and which may well still be an automatic majority on this occasion gagged the debate and denied members of the then Opposition who support the present Government an opportunity to debate the matter of terrorism. 
I think that we have to make the position very clear to the Senate and to the people of Australia that the Government, the Australian Labor Party and every sector of the Labor movement stand full square behind  Senator Murphy.  There is no deviation of hesitancy. 
There is complete and absolute support for the stand that he has taken. I refer honourable senators to another indication of the mass of support that has been evident since he first made his statement to the Senate a fortnight ago. 
If  Senator Webster  would listen with both ears, he might find out that correspondence has been forwarded to the Attorney-General from the Commonwealth Police Officers Association in the following terms: 
As you are aware, ihe 1973 Biennial Conference of this Association was held in Canberra from 19th March to 23rd March 1973 inclusive. I wish to inform you that the following resolution was unanimously passed at that conference: 
That this Federal Conference of the Commonwealth Police Officers' Association in session wishes to express its wholehearted support to the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator L.  K. Murphy, in his campaign to eliminate all terrorist activities that are contrary to our Australian way of life, and also expresses its complete co-operation in his endeavours to make the Commonwealth Police the strong, active, viable force it must be for the benefit and betterment of the Australian people.' 
Since the Senate granted  Senator Murphy  leave to present his ministerial statement, I think we have to accept that he has been subjected to a great deal of interrogation in the Senate and some criticism in the daily newspapers. It is within the knowledge of honourable senators that in excess of 80 questions have been addressed to him. He was virtually grilled in the Senate, lt is interesting that very few of those questions dealt with the matter of terrorism. They were all endeavouring to establish some motive in respect to his visit to both the Canberra and Melbourne offices of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. We have to examine the fact that honourable senators opposite who have spoken in the debate today, with the exception of the last  speaker. Senator Maunsell,  have endeavoured to present what I describe as a 'Liberal lawyers lament'. They have not endeavoured in any shape or form to answer the very serious allegations and statements which were produced to the Senate in  Senator Murphy's  statement. 
must express the opinion that it is clear that those who have spoken in the debate today, while they have listened to and read  Senator Murphy's  statement, have not availed themselves of the opportunity to examine the documents that were tabled in the Senate. If they had done so they could not but be convinced about the authenticity of the statements in the report before the Senate. What we have heard from those lawyers opposite is a meaningless jangle of words to attempt to bring other questions to the forefront of the debate. Not one honourable senator opposite has attempted to disprove the matters that  Senator Murphy  raised here. 

 Senator Greenwood has tabled documents in regard to which he said on television last evening that he did not know whether he broke the Crimes Act. He said that he thought the sections of the Act dealing with the tabling of these documents, which I accuse him of having illegally, were very confusing. That was said by the former AttorneyGeneral in a Government that had 23 years in office to clear up the points of confusion. The documents were confidential documents. I do not know who declassified them, if they were declassified. I think the documents on which  Senator Greenwood  seemed to place a great deal of credence are worth analysing. It is very interesting to note that the first document is headed 'Attorney-General's Department Minute Paper Confidential'. It is dated 4th October 1972. That was a few weeks prior to the Senate rising. The then AttorneyGeneral was advised by the Secretary of his Department,  Mr Harders,  that there was a need to establish a co-ordinating group consisting of senior officers from various departments in order to co-ordinate intelligence and investigations relating to politically motivated acts of violence. 
It seems strange that when the first overt act of violence manifested itself in 1960  Dr J.  F. Cairns asked certain questions and spoke during the adjournment debate in the other place. Subsequently both he and  Mr Whitlam,  in a series of questions, and later honourable senators drew attention to what appeared to be pattern of terrorist behaviour. What seems to be clear is that  Senator Greenwood  has adopted, at the very best, an inconsistent and schizophrenic attitude in respect of terrorism. He answered questions on one occasion by saying that there was no evidence of terrorism, and on another occasion he said that there was some concern in government circles. It is clear that the Opposition will follow the pristine approach to this matter, and that is that attack is the best method of defence. I suggest that honourable senators opposite have stooped to a very low level in moving an amendment which seeks to express a want of confidence in the Attorney-General. Their action is without precedent here. In the other place we can play the numbers game just as well as those who might want to play it here. For example if the Senate decided to support the amendment - if honourable senators were prevailed upon and persuaded to support it - there would be nothing to stop the House of Representatives carrying a similar motion in respect to the administration of the previous Attorney-General. I doubt whether that will be of any value to the parliamentary processes or to the important matters which we on this side have endeavoured to deal with for a number of years. I suggest that those honourable senators who have spoken in favour of the amendment should re-examine their approach to the matter. 
In the debate to date a number of statements have been made. I hope to be able to show to honourable senators that the truth has been handled rather carelessly by some speakers. For example, today  Senator Rae  stated that for the purpose of  Senator Murphy's  visit to the Melbourne headquarters of ASIO he and 27 Commonwealth Police used a VIP flight. That statement is not true. The facts are that the Commonwealth police were based in Melbourne and that  Senator Murphy  and his small party used a commercial flight to travel to Melbourne. I will show subsequently that on other occasions former Ministers, particular  Senator Greenwood,  did not handle the truth in the clear and concise way that their ministerial office required. 
I find it rather sickening to hear Opposition speakers referring to statements which were made by  Mr Chifley  years ago. When I was campaigning for the return of the Chifley Labor Government in 1949 the propaganda of the Liberal Party was at the gutter level. It was against the nationalisation of banks and of the medical industry. The Liberal Party used every conceivable word of denigration and criticism against  Mr Chifley  to try to destroy his image. A similar situation arose in 1966 when  Mr Calwell  and the Labor Parly had the courage of their convictions and took a stand against the war in Vietnam, lt is sickening to hear members of the Opposition quoting former leaders of the Labor Party as some justification for the stand that is being taken now. 
What would members of the Opposition have done if they were confronted with rec ommendations from the Chief of the Commonwealth Police advising the Australian Government that a dignitary who had been invited to visit Australia by the previous Government was in danger of assassination when he came to this country? Would they not have taken every step within their means to establish absolute security so that such a dignitary would be protected? In 1964 the security organisations in the United States failed in their responsibility to  President  Kennedy. On the day on which the  President  went to Dallas there was talk in Dallas that he would be assassinated. There were full page advertisements in the Dallas newspaper saying: 'This man is wanted for treason'. Yet the security organisations were not able to adequately defend their  President.  Based on that sort of experience and knowledge surely any government would be recreant to its trust if it did not take the view that every conceivable step should be taken to protect an honoured guest. Whether we like that country or that person is immaterial to the duties of any responsible government. 
Some honourable senators opposite, if not all, who have spoken have said that the debate has developed into a highly charged and emotional issue. It is a matter of judgment whether an attempt to assassinate the visiting Yugoslav Prime Minister is a highly charged and emotional issue. If he were assassinated it could have affected the safety of our Prime Minister because they appeared together in many public places. Surely that would bc sufficient reason to induce the Attorney-General and those charged with security arrangements in this country - whether it be the State police, the Commonwealth Police or security organisations - to take every possible step. 
The threats which have been made against people in public office in this country have been made not so much against members of  Senator Wright's  Party as against members of the present Government.  Dr J.  F. Cairns has had numerous threats to his life. When he was in New Zealand on government business just recently I had occasion to telephone his wife. She had to have the telephone disconnected because obscene and threatening allegations were made to her. The police had to station an officer in her home to protect her from insane and unnecessary attacks. The Prime Minister, 

 Mr Whitlam, Senator Murphy and his wife have received threats. There is evidence to show that these threats have come from persons on the extreme right. It is very easy for members of the Opposition to try to equate a bit of violence which might take place in one trade union or at one Trades Hall meeting with all the threats that have been made against officers of trade unions. 
My brother and the officials of his union have received many threats against their lives, as well as obscene suggestions over the telephone, from right wing sources within the trade union movement. Make no mistake about that. Probably  I  hold the honoured position, if  I  can place the event in such a category, of being the only member of this national Parliament at present in whose home a bomb has exploded. If any honourable senator opposite believes that that is an event which they wish to exprience, they should carry on in the way in which they and their former Government have done for the last  23  years. That incident occurred just  2  years ago and was caused by right wing terrorist sources. Make no mistake about that either. 
 I  know because senior police officers in New South Wales told me that they knew who it was-- 
I know who it was and they know who it was. 
It is known because they came back on a second occasion and were caught on that second occasion. But the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales decided not to file a bill in respect of that matter. Make no mistake about that. On the recommendation of the so-called Minister for Justice in New South Wales no bill was filed against a person involved because he represented the same right wing terrorist groups that the Government which  Senator Webster  supports has been seeking to protect for a great number of years. 
A great deal has been said in this debate about the fact that  230  Commonwealth and State police officers raided  80  homes in Sydney and Canberra last weekend. I am prepared to concede that that is a ratio of  3  police officers to each home. But in the case of a small  19  year old draft resister with which  Senator Greenwood  was involved last year, 12  Commonwealth police were employed to arrest this person at Glebe in Sydney. It was at an hour of the morning in respect of which a highly emotive issue is now being promoted. We hear mention now of the early hours of the morning. 

 - Senator Webster, you are most helpful to me. I refer now to the statement that  Senator Greenwood  made in the Senate yesterday and specifically to the documents which were not tabled by  Senator Murphy.  Let us deal with the question of terrorism which honourable senators opposite claim is not an issue. I turn to page 2  of the second document which was tabled by  Senator Greenwood.  Some of the more significant of the incidents involving Croatians are listed in chronological order. The document reads: 7th May, 1964: Tomislav LESIC was severely injured. 
It is true that this report does not say when he was injured but newspapers and the documents tabled by  Senator Murphy  reveal that this incident occurred at 3.30  a.m. The former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  the Commonwealth police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation all reached the conclusion that Lesic was carrying a bomb which he intended to plant somewhere, when it exploded prematurely. The next reference is: 1st January, 1967: At about 0330 hours a bomb explosion on the first floor patio at the rear of the Yugoslav Consulate, Sydney. 
The document continues: 9lh June 1969: At about 0100 hours there was an explosion at the frontof the Yugoslav Consulat, Sydney, 
The next incident is: 29th November 1969: At about 0200 hours there was an explosion at the rear of the Yugoslav Embassy, Canberra. 
The explosion which occurred at my home took place at  0230  hours. The document continues: 2nd January 1970: A.C.T. Police arrested 2 Croats . . . found in possession of explosives. 21st October 1970: At about 2300 hours . . . 
The document goes on to cite another six or seven instances of terrorists employing the cover of the early hours of the morning tot carry out their raids. 
It was tabled by  Senator Greenwood.  Of course, he did not make any reference to the fact to which I have just drawn attention. I refer honourable senators now to a 4-page document that I have here. I mention first what appeared in the 'Daily Mirror' of Tuesday, 19th September 1972. I invite  Senator Webster  and those other honourable senators opposite who are so vocal on these matters to listen to what this newspaper printed. The article is headed: More Bomb Scares'. It states: 
Today, at the CIB, a special conference of 35 detectives is reviewing information received yesterday when 10 members of the Yugoslav community - 5 men and 5 women - were questioned for several hours. Detectives yesterday took possession of documents and other materials. 
Why do certain raids on peoples homes under a Labor Government suddenly assume an air of criminality when similar raids were an acceptable every day feature when they occurred under the Government led by  Mr McMahon,  of which  Senator Greenwood  was a member? 1 turn next to the Melbourne Age' - I assume that we can say that these documents are correct - which reported at approximately the same time as the 'Daily Mirror' printed the article from which I have just quoted: 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said yesterday be had not been aware police intended to raid homes in Melbourne and Sydney on Tuesday searching for evidence of the Croatian Liberation Movement. 
That is precisely the position in which  Senator Murphy  was placed. On Monday last, newspapers reported  Mr Davis  as saying that  Senator Murphy  did not know of the raids that were conducted last weekend. Further examination shows that those raids were initiated by the New South Wales police who requested action to unearth some of the problems associated with terrorism. In fact they invited the Commonwealth police to join in those raids. So much for the great play on words that we have seen in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and other newspapers suggesting that midnight raids are a development that is suddenly emerging and that activities of this type are something unusual. These raids are a continuation of the very practices that have been followed by governments year in and year out. It is a pity that members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are not present They are more frequently absent from the chamber than they are here. I wish to quote some of the statements that appear in the October issue of the journal 'Focus'. This journal states: 
The public has in recent weeks been reading frightening news of terrorism in various parts of the world. First there was the gripping and tragic drama at the Olympic Games at Munich in which Arab terrorists murdered 9 Israeli sportsmen. Then within weeks, as if to remind Australians that terrorism is an international phenomenon which they cannot escape, there were the bomb explosions in Sydney streets outside a Yugoslav travel agency.  lt  is necessary to condemn, without reservation, actions such as these. No cause is good enough  or  great enough to justify the use of such violent actions such as the capture of hostages or the use of bombs in public places. lt is not good enough for liberals to say that if only the root causes of terrorist dissatisfaction were removed all would be well. 
Yet, we see evidence today of the Australian Democratic Labor Party joining forces with the other sections of the Opposition in an endeavour to carry an amendment which seeks to condemn the actions of the AttorneyGeneral who had the courage to do what he did and who has the support of the overwhelming majority of the Australian people. 
The problems of Croatia and Yugoslavia are great and obviously will not be eradicated within one generation. I have received certain documents which clearly show the sorts of problems that existed in that part of Europe. They were sent to me in the last couple of days by a constituent living in Newcastle, a lady 1 do not know. If we have any illusions about Pavelic, the wartime leader of the Croatian Ustasha movement, honourable senators should look at these documents. Honourable senators might say that they appeared in a foreign language journal and therefore have no credence but I do not think you can manufacture photographs. This document shows Mussolini receiving Pavelic in 1941. Another photograph shows Goering, Pavelic and Hitler arriving in Serbia. Another shows Hitler being met by Pavelic in a part of Yugoslavia in the same year, 1941. Honourable senators have to take into consideration that the Croatian Liberation Movement had this to say on the occasion of its 25th Anniversary: 
We protest most categorically and repudiate the decisions made by the representatives of the three Great Powers at Yalta in February  194S . . . 
Since that time they have engaged in activities all over the world aimed at retracing their steps and turning back history. This is what  Senator Murphy  said in his statement: 
I have never accepted the proposition that we must get used to political terrorism, involving bombings, murder, intimidation, and that democratic governments are powerless to suppress such activities. 
We supporters of the Labor Government join with  Senator Murphy  in that statement. He continued: 
That such actions have occurred in Australia with increasing frequency in recent years is beyond dispute. 
Do honourable senators opposite disagree with those statements? I put it to them that there is abundant evidence in the files supplied to us to show that  Senator Murphy  did his homework; in fact he presented substantial evidence to justify his point of view. It was his duty to ascertain whether the charges about terrorism that have been made over the years were substantive or otherwise. There is no question that by producing the documents which have been tabled he has succeeded in doing so. It is very poor journalism on the part of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' to suggest that  Senator Murphy's  argument falls to the ground because police had received information from a number of sources indicating that  Mr Mudrinic  was in the pay of the Yugoslav Consulate-General. That was hearsay evidence. Those facts appear in the documents which  Senator Murphy  tabled. They may not have been in his statement but they are in the tabled documents which relate to his statement. It is asserted by some members of the Yugoslav community that this person may be in the pay of the Yugoslav Government. All sorts of assertions may be made. I have read depositions taken by State police - depositions taken in Melbourne, Wollongong and Sydney - in which it has been asserted that there were training grounds in Queensland. Those people were cross-examined by police and those statements appear in the transcript of evidence. I have read about them being trained in Wodonga. Opposition senators reject those statements and say that they have no credence. They say that there is no proof. They seized upon this one small paragraph which said that this person Mudrinic may have been an agent provocateur. I cannot understand their reasoning. Either the reports can be substantive and can be accepted in their total context or they are not acceptable at all. Nothing has been said by honourable senators opposite to deny that fact. 
I want to refer to the point of view taken by  Senator Greenwood.  On 26th October 1972 I asked him this question: 
My question, which is directed to the AttorneyGeneral, relates lo the 2 recent Sydney court cases concerning Yugoslav terrorists and statements made by the New South Wales Police and the victim of a bomb blast in Sydney. 

 Senator Greenwood took me to task about that question. He said:  1 can only regret the use of the expressions 'Croatian terrorists' and 'Yugoslav terrorists' which  Senator Gietzelt  has used. 
I point out that the documents show that those are the words used by the New South Wales Police. They were the words used by the newspapers in New South Wales to describe that case. In fact the Commonwealth Police and the security organisation made use of the same terminology when commenting on those particular court cases. Yet  Senator Greenwood  took me to task, as indeed did the  President  of the Senate who said: 
I wish to make the observation that honourable senators do themselves less than justice and put themselves in offence against the Standing Orders when they quote from a newspaper. 
I was not stating my point of view; I was stating the point of view of the New South Wales Police and it was that at which  Senator Greenwood  took umbrage. Clearly  Senator Greenwood  was defending the position that there was no terrorism, otherwise why would he take issue with me on that point? 
Let us look at the Croatian organisation. Pavelic was an arch war criminal. According to the documents of the criminal intelligence branch he was personally involved in the assassination of King Alexander in 1934. Then he received help from the Vatican and Mussolini in 1929 to establish the Ustasha movement. When the German forces, 'he Axis forces - the forces against which our Australian troops were committed in World War II - marched into Zagreb on 10th April 1941, Pavelic marched at the head of the German column. Who are we to say that the intelligence reports are not correct? They have not been challenged by the Opposition so I presume it accepts them as being substantive. The intelligence reports state that the Ustasha organisation deteriorated into a Nazi SS organisation. That statement appears on page 2 of the Australian Security Intelligence 
Organisation report. It is interesting to note that the Cardinal in that country, Cardinal Tisserand, who constantly opposed the Croatian wartime government, told Pavelic's legate in the Vatican: 
If you only knew - 
I am quoting from a statement published in a Paris newspaper - how the Italian officers stationed along the Adriatic coast speak of you - murders, fires, crimes of every kind and pillages are the order of the day in these regions. 1 know for sure that even the Franciscan Friars of Bosnia and Herzegovina took an active part in the attacks against the orthodox population and the destruction of churches. I learnt from an infallible source that the Franciscans from Bosnia behaved atrociously. How such acts can be perpetrated by civilised and cultured men, lel alone priests, is inconceivable. 
When that Cardinal died last year in Rome, Spremnost', published here in Australia, had something to say in its March 1972 issue. This surely gives some indication to honourable senators of the tremendous problem we have with these people in our community: 
For his work he hardly deserves paradise - 
This is what is stated in this great Christian newspaper - and holy Peter, the key holder of Heaven, will do well to keep this Cardinal in purgatory for at least J times 50 years before giving him his place in hell. Never allow him, as a Cardinal of the Church, to come before the face of God. 
What hatred we see expressed by this hard core section of the Community. 
It would do  Senator Webster  well to read what  Senator Murphy  said. He said that we, as a Government, are interested only in the hard core extremists. We make a great distinction between the hard working, competent and decent people that have come from that part of the world to our country. We have stressed that what is involved in our endeavours is the rooting out of this hard core of extremism. Of course, it is worth noting that over the years many members of the previous Government have seen fit to associate with these people who are connected with the sentiments to which I have just referred. Who are those members of the former Government? They are a former Minister for Immigration,  Mr Opperman;  the former Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth;  the infamous Douglas Darby, M.L.A., from New South Wales; the former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  who coming home from a game of squash or tennis a year or two ago said: 'They seemed a good bunch of boys with a good cause, having some fun'. 
I withdraw it. The other members of the former Government were  Dr Malcolm  Mackay and  Dr Solomon.  Photographs appearing in the daily newspapers substantiate the points that I am making in this matter. If honourable senators really had examined the documents that  Senator Murphy  has made available I am sure that they could not have helped but notice these things. I do not believe that honourable senators would be associated with language supporting the use of chemicals in revolution. But a document which was freely made available to every honourable senator to read, if he wanted to do so, stated: 
In our revolutionary struggle to achieve the Croatian People's freedom and State independence we shall use every possible means including, of course, chemicals in spile of the fact that some of them, e.g., poisons, are banned under international law. The end justifies the means - this must be our slogan too, because it is the only way to guarantee our revolutionary struggle . . . 
I am not a scientist, but I am sure that there are people who can understand the terminology and the various processes and formulas mentioned in these documents. There is reference to automatic poison injection sets, how to make toxic poisons and how to use them against people with whom you have a disagreement. Do honourable senators really and seriously equate that sort of behaviour with the sort of unruly behaviour, disturbance and, to some extent, minor violence that has taken place from time to time in and around certain meetings in the trade union movement? Some 70 instances can be directly related to violence by Croatian terrorists. 
Why does not  Senator Webster  get his perspectives right? I am referring to the report from the Crimes Intelligence Branch of the Commonwealth Police. It is not an old report. It states: 
Recent acts of violence against Yugoslav Embassies and Consulates in the United States, Canada, Germany, France and Australia indicate that Croatian freedom groups remain active. The acts of violence are no doubt designed to draw world attention to the Croatian cause and to create a diplomatic rift against 
Yugoslavia andthe countries concerned. An innocent person is sometimes killed or seriously hurt during these outrages. 
Is there any condemnation? Not one honourable senator opposite has made any statement condemning terrorism and has not said that there might be some truth in these documents. After all, these documents were part of  Senator Murphy's  report. The report, which was sent to the Australian Government from the Yugoslav Government, goes on to say that the terrorists have received instructions in the use of mining devices at the Croatian Catholic Welfare Centre in Sydney; that they have received military training at a camp operated by the Croatian Liberation Movement; that they have had training in the use of weapons and explosives; and that they have been supervised by members of the Regular Army at Wodonga. The Commonwealth Police also said that since the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood was established in Australia it had been kept under surveillance and steps had been taken to prevent possible breaches of the Crimes Act. Then it is stated that the HRB, which is one of the many organisations which have been formed, would use every possible means at its disposal, including the employment of arms, to achieve the final goal. 
I turn now to the ASIO documents, in case it is suggested that this is propaganda from the Left or from some other source which is not unimpeachable. I am not suggesting that every report that has been made by ASIO or by the Commonwealth Police is necessarily accurate, but ASIO, in its report, stated: 
The Ustasha soon deteriorated into the equivalent of a Nazi S.S. organisation, and within this framework had an extermination squad aimed at anyone who opposed the Military regime, in particular, Jews and Serbians. This was the unit known as the Black Legion. Reports have placed Ustasha exterminations during the war as high as 800,000. 
This is the organisation which  Senator Murphy  has seen fit to mention in this place in order to acquaint the Parliament, as I think he is duty bound to do, and the Australian people of its existence. It is an organisation to which a series of former Government Ministers have drawn attention. I need only refer to what  Sir Robert  Menzies said in  1964.  It is in the records. He said: 
I have no doubt that the great majority of organisations and societies to which migrants belong come within the category to which I have just been referring. 
He was referring to migrants being integrated into the community. He continued: 
However, the Government looks with disfavour on any activities of any migrant organisation which tend to frustrate integration. 
The possibility always exists that at some point, the activities of a particular immigrant organisation, or the activities of individuals within that organisation, may transgress the law . . . If, as a result of these investigations, there is evidence of illegal activities on the part of an organisation, or individuals within an organisation, which would be receivable in a court of law, then steps will be taken promptly . . . 
Of course,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, as did  Sir Robert  Menzies, correctly drew attention to what was happening within our community in the same period of time when he said: 
For my own part, I am disturbed at the foreign policy implications of such activity which may embarrass our relations with other governments. 
Do honourable senators appreciate that, leaving aside the United Kingdom, the greatest number of migrants now coming to our country come from Yugoslavia? Therefore, the maintenance of friendly relations with that country is an important part of our immigration program.  Sir Garfield  Barwick continued: 
We have already received a formal Note from the Yugoslav Government conveying the view, which we have of course rejected, that the Australian authorities were 'acquainted with the organised activity of the Croatian fascist immigrants and were, to say the least, tolerant towards them'. I am anxious to prevent any recurrence of behaviour either on the part of Yugoslavs or any other national minority groups, which adversely affects our external relations, and I have asked the Minister for Immigration to consider what positive steps might be taken to restrain them. 
The Attorney-General of the day received a minute written by his Secretary - I think it was a  Mr Edwards,  if I can read his signature - drawing attention to the fact that a Father Romac of Sydney was presenting problems to the Government. He was reported to be a Franciscan Friar residing at  45  Victoria Street, Waverley, and at the Croatian Welfare Centre,  14  Queen Street, Woollahra. The document continues: 
You will recall that it was at the home of Father Romac that the persons convicted in Yugoslavia received certain instructions prior to leaving Australia. 
There is no equivocation here by the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department. In his report to the Attorney-General he accepts the statement of the Yugoslav Government. This report further states: 
As an alternative to the prosecution of Father Romac, the church authorities could be advised of his activities and asked to take measures to ensure the future good behaviour of Father Romac. 
The Secretary then goes on to talk about the Aliens Act. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the report state: 
I enclose a list of the 7 persons who have apparently committed offences under section 9. 
I have discussed the question of prosecution under both the Passports Act and Aliens Act with the Secretary of the Department of Immigration and it was agreed that I should bring the question of prosecution to your attention so that you could discuss the matter with your colleague, the Minister for Immigration. 
What more evidence do honourable senators want? I am still referring to the information from unimpeachable sources which was tabled in this place. This is a report from ASIO. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that in recent years  Senator Greenwood  has been responsible for these matters. Page 2 of the report, after dealing with the problems of migrants who had come to Australia and the fact that there is some extremism, states: 
However, it would be dangerous to become complacent, or to underestimate the nuisance-value of even a small number of fanatics working in a community which  afforts  them a wide measure of passive, if not active, sympathy and support. 
That was written in 1967. It brought up to date the official report from ASIO to the Attorney-General following the first excursion into Yugoslavia in 1963 about which we received written complaints from the Yugoslav Government. .The Prime Minister of the day and his Minister for Foreign Affairs - surely both unimpeachable sources from the Opposition's point of view - saw fit to draw the attention of the Government to this and they suggested certain courses of action. 
We have the subsequent documents. There is one dealing with some of the individual documents which have been printed in another country and which came to Australia. It was edited by Professor Marijan Mikac, a former member of the Croatian Government. This man was writing from Argentina and sending material to Croatians here. He was seeking to raise money and support for his cause. This document goes on to state that the way in which the organisation - that is the Revolutionary Croatian Brotherhood - works is as follows: They have an intelligence branch, a technical bomb-manufacturing branch, a propaganda branch and a special squad branch which specialises in bombthrowing, kidnapping and assassination. Yet honourable senators stand up and endeavour to point out that the documents which were presented to this place have no relevance. 
I shall deal with the letter from  Mr Barbour,  who I understand is the Director-General of ASIO. On 24th April 1972 he wrote to the Attorney-General: 'My Dear Attorney-General' so we assume that they were on intimate terms then and still are. He referred to an article in a paper which was attributed to Srecko Rover. The paper is called 'Pregled'.  Mr Barbour  states: 
The article indicates that these persons were not worthy of Croatian respect because they had declared Croatia to be an integral part of Yugoslavia and also a 'Servian State'. Rover indicates that the real heroes of the Croatian patriots should include, among others,  Barasic  and  Brajkovic.  (These - individuals are considered identical- 
This is  Mr Barbour's  report -  with the assassins of the Yugoslav ambassador Vladimir  Molovic  in Sweden last year - Miro  Barisic  and  Andjelko Brajkovic,  who both received sentences of life imprisonment).  1 shall leave out the parts of the document which are not relevant to the debate. The letter continues: 
Information has just been received to the effect that Rover departed Melbourne on 17th April 1972, to travel to Sydney and Brisbane, and thence to Toronto, Canada. It is understood' that he will attend an international convention of the HNO to be held in Toronto, and may also visit the U.S.A. Arrangements have been made in an effort to obtain coverage of Rover's activities while overseas, and it is anticipated that, following the convention in Toronto, a clearer picture may emerge of Rover's intended future activity in the Croatian nationalist field. 
It seems to me that this indicates that there has been a pattern of behaviour and a movement which has been with us for a considerable number of years. 
Let us look at 'Spremnost' of January 1973. I know this is the, post-Greenwood era but this is part of the documents which were tabled. This journal is referring to a person who deprecated the fact that 2 Australians had been shot in 1972 when they were caught in Bosnia. Yugoslavia. The report states: 
What we ask him is - where was he while the guns were roaring at  Bugojno  and in other parts of Croatia? 
Can honourable senators really suggest that the minor episodes of misbehaviour which occasionally take place among workers and members of trade unions over a period of years - there was one case in Sydney and one in Melbourne - can be equated with this sort of language and behaviour? Again I turn to journals which are put out by these extremist organisations. Incidentally, this journal which was printed in January this year is entitled Obrana' and it states: 
We Serbian fighters must follow the example of the Croatian patriots who are killing Yugoslav agents and hijacking and bringing down aircraft! 
Honourable senators opposite have the audacity to condemn  Senator Murphy  and the Government for releasing a film. Here we have people who are extolling those who are involved in hijacking aircraft. It continues: 
What are we Serbians doing against Yugoslavia and against Tito?! 
Let us look at another journal. This one is called 'Kletva'. It has no date on it but I gather that it is a fairly recent document. It states what the Government, the former Opposition, has been saying. This is a statement that appears in the document: 
Many members of the emigre community have taken a stand against the revolutionary spirit of Croatian youth and of the younger generation. Many of them refuse to face the fact that each period has its own troubles. 
Is not this the very point which  Senator Murphy  has sought to bring out in his documents? Most Croats in this country do not want to be involved in problems which occurred in Yugoslavia and central Europe a generation ago. They want to settle down and become, part of the Australian way of life. It is precisely the inactivity and the indifference of the previous Government which has brought about this unsatisfactory state of affairs. Many Croats think that Ministers of the previous Government who attended functions had the imprimatur of the Government and that, in fact, they are part of the official movement. Of course it is easy to tell people who come from that part of the world and who do not know much about governments how important those in authority are when they attend official functions of these Croatian organisations. 
I turn to the subject of sabotage. I wish to quote now from the document entitled 'Kletva'. It states: 
It is no offence to forget to stop an engine at the end of work, thus causing an electric motor to burn out or wasting the current when the plant is not working. It is no offence to wash one's hands in aviation spirit and then leave the container open on a windy day, so that sand and dust can enter it. It is better still to leave oil containers open under similar conditions, lt should not be unusual for a tradesman to leave a small key in the cylinder of an engine. It should not be unusual for a nut to drop off a machine into an electric motor which happens to be installed right under it. It is nothing too unusual about a worker's not meeting his 7-day norm or another worker's exceeding his norm but failing to meet the quality standards. 
They seek to sabotage the activities of a country which, until it had a change of government, was in fact living under a feudal system. I can go further about the revolutionary content of these organisations. Document Cil is a very interesting document. I ask honourable senators to analyse what it contains. Document Cil is a translation of the original document. I assume, as it was translated by either the Crime Intelligence Bureau or ASIO, that it is probably correct. Let us examine what it says: The document is headed 'Instructions for Croatians outside their homeland'. I am sure that not even  Senator Wright  would disagree with me when I say that that could apply to those in Australia, seeing that it is a document that was found in this country. The document states: 
Destroy all  Yugo-embassies  and consulates, kill Yugoslav diplomatic representatives, because they are common criminals and Fascists! 
I thought they were communists but according to this document they are Fascists. The document continues: 
Prevent migrants from travelling in Yugoslav aircraft, and destroy, Yugo-aircraft! 
That is precisely what was done in Sweden. The document goes on: 
Wreck the travel agencies collaborating with the JAT, because their collaboration supports the occupation of the 'Socialist Republic of Croatia'! 
We all remember the 2 incidents in Sydney - one in 1970 and the other in 1972  -  when a number of ordinary peaceful citizens of Sydney were injured, some of whom could have been killed, when a bomb was placed in the Adriatic Travel Agency. The document continues: 
Prevent the sale of Yugo-publications in the Croatian emigre community! 
There is evidence in the files which have been tabled - time will not permit me to read all of it - from ASIO or the Commonwealth Police force of newsagents in Melbourne having been threatened because they dared to sell Yugoslav publications. These documents exhort a behaviour which is repugnant to Australia, repugnant to democracy and against everything that we stand for in this country. We have people in this country carrying out such behaviour. Instead of  Senator Murphy  receiving the plaudits of some people, the newspapers and the members of the Opposition, who should be concerned about terrorism, the reverse is the case. It has been suggested that we should not have confidence in him because he dared to bring to this Parliament documents that were freely made available to him. The remarks of Phillip Lynch have been referred to by other speakers. What did he say in 1970? Phillip Lynch said that he had reason to believe- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My. question is directed to  Senator Murphy  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that, when answering charges in the United States of America that large numbers of prisoners were held in inhuman conditions in South Vietnamese gaols, the  President  of South Vietnam,  President  Thieu, said that he was prepared to open the prisons to international inspection? Will the Minister discuss with the Prime Minister the possibility of sending an all-party parliamentary delegation to inspect such prisons in South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 refer to my question of 27th March 1973 dealing with the investment of $347m in property construction and mortgages by the Commonwealth Superannuation Board, ls the Minister aware that the latest report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board shows an increasing investment in the spectulative field of property investment by that organisation? Will the Minister take up with these public bodies the need to curtail such speculative and inflationary investments and suggest that their funds might best be made available to State, local and semi-government bodies so that the deficiency of community facilities can be overcome, in accordance with Government policy? 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Have the procedures relating to Commonwealth warrants to search premises been varied during the period that he has held office as Attorney-General? I refer him to a statement issued by the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police  Mr J.  M. Davis, on 1st April 1973 and ask: Is it not true that the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr Davis,  said in Canberra on that day that early that morning a large squad of Commonwealth and State police made an extensive search of 68 separate premises in the Sydney-Wollongong area. Did not the Commissioner say that he and the New South Wales Commissioner,  Mr F.  Hanson, authorised 130 Commonwealth and 130 New South Wales police to conduct the searches under warrants issued under Commonwealth and State law? Did not the Commissioner say that during the searches documents, explosives and weapons were seized by police and that some persons were being questioned? Did not Commissioner Davis say that for some time the New South Wales and Commonwealth police had been conducting joint inquiries into the existence and activities of Croatian extremist organisations which have had overseas connections and that considerable information concerning the nature and membership of these organisations had been uncovered following investigations into the bombings in the Sydney area in September last year? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour noted the acceleration of profits made by most companies, as reported daily in the financial columns of the Press? Is the Minister aware that there is an increasing demand that wage and salary earners should have their wages pegged as a one-sided contribution to combating inflation? Does the Minister agree that profits play a significant part in the cost structure of prices? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether he knows of any private company that has agreed to peg profits or even reduce them as its contribution to curbing inflation? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the 3 persons executed by the Yugoslav authorities were involved in a guerilla style invasion last year against the legal Government of that country? Is it not true that soldiers of the Yugoslav army were killed in this incursion and that the normal protocol arrangements could not be expected to apply to their illegal activities in a country recognised by the previous and present Governments as a friendly country? Did not the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation documents tabled in the Senate include the names of these 3 terrorists suspected of being involved in subversive activities in Australia? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral, as a result of his recent talks with French Government Ministers, tell the Senate whether, in his opinion, the people of France have been made aware of the intensity of feelings of the Australian people against the proposed atmospheric nuclear tests in the Pacific? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that yesterday at the Macarthur Girls High School in Sydney certain priests used the weekly scripture period for the distribution of anti-abortion literature? Is the Minister aware that the same religious group is persuading young children to write letters to Federal parliamentarians urging them to vote against the reform of abortion law in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? Will the Minister give an assurance that this type of political indoctrination does not occur in schools under Commonwealth jurisdiction? Will the Minister give an assurance that the Federal Government deplores the manipulation of school children for such political purposes? 
My question which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows on the question asked by  Senator Greenwood.  I ask: Is it not a fact that the Government of North Vietnam is recognised by most countries? Is it not a fact also that in the Agreement signed by the United States of America in Paris in March this year the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam has a status equal to that of the Saigon regime headed by  President  Thieu and is so regarded by the United States and the 11 other signatories to the Paris Agreement? 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate acknowledge that it was the Conservative member for Roxborough.  Mr David  Steel, who successfully introduced in the British Parliament the private member's Bill which liberalised the abortion laws in 1967? Is the Minister aware that it was the Liberal Member for Mitcham,  Mr Millhouse,  who piloted a similar private member's Bill through the South Australian Parliament during the period when the Liberal-Country League had a majority in that State? Is it not a fact that the United Slates Supreme Court, including 3 conservative judges who were appointed by  President  Nixon, unanimously ruled in favour of abortion laws on lines similar to the Bill to be debated in the House of Representatives this week? In view of these developments in the English speaking world, does the Minister agree that the current anti-abortion campaign which attacks the Federal Government and the Australian Labor Party is spurious and unprincipled, that the propaganda is misleading and emotional and that members of the Government have a free and unfettered vote on all social issues in the Parliament? 
Does the Minister for the Media accept the results of the recent survey on morale among Australian Broadcasting Commission staff members as reflecting a serious problem for the viewing community? ls the Minister able to say whether it is his opinion that the problem of staff morale follows the excessive criticism levelled at ABC programs in recent years by top figures in the former Liberal-Country Party Government and other conservative groups? ls the Minister able to tell the Senate whether the management personnel in the ABC wilted under this criticism and made staff members feel that they could not effectively present programs to the viewing public without the full support of ABC management? Will the Minister take urgent steps to restore full confidence within the Administration of the ABC., even if this means making drastic changes in management? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware' that recently I visited New Zealand and that subsequent to: that visit the 
Leader of the Opposition in that country publicly expressed full support for the efforts of the New Zealand Prime Minister to have the tests in the Pacific region stopped? The Attorney-General just referred to a statement made yesterday by  Mr Snedden,  pledging support for the Australian Government's efforts to prevent the tests from taking place in the Pacific region. 
Questions have just been directed to the Attorney-General by Opposition senators and I now ask: Is this not yet another example of differences within the Opposition parties - between the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives,  Mr Snedden,  and Opposition senators? 
The problem that the Senate is faced with has been clearly evident for a considerable period of this session. Tension has been building up ever since the Parliament reassembled in February and its became very obvious that something had to happen to resolve the impossible position in which the combined vote of the Opposition was placing the Government. It is a matter of regret that we have reached this stage but I think it was an inevitable development. It seems that a power struggle is going on within the ranks of not only the Liberal Party but the Opposition parties generally. It is a matter of great regret that the men I see on the Opposition side of the chamber, men I know to be reasonable, men with whom the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and other Ministers were able to work in cooperation in past years, have remained silent and have allowed themselves to be the willing tools of a group that has set out to thwart the Government and to embarrass the Attorney-General. They are the ones who are guilty of the breakdown of parliamentary democracy. Every effort that has been made by the Government to establish its legislative program has been thwarted in the 7 sitting weeks since the Parliament resumed this year. Every Wednesday we have been subjected to motions which took away the right of the Government to place its business before the Senate. The consequence of this action is that we are considerably behind in our legislative program. There seems to be no end to it. There seems to be no end to this disruption of the work of the Senate and the disruption of the program of the Government. 
Now we are faced with a position where the Democratic Labor Party has, in recent weeks, submitted motions to set up committees contrary to the established procedures of the Senate. It has made no arrangements with the Leader of the Government in the Senate or for that matter with any other member of the Government. In those circumstances we are not obliged to take any steps to cooperate with Democratic Labor Party senators. They have sought on every occasion to be part of a campaign of vilification against the Attorney-General, who has been subjected to a grilling and an experience that I think has been unheard of in Australian politics. Certainly in my lifetime no man has been vilified as much as  Senator Murphy,  not only within the Parliament but also by certain sections of the Press which have set out in devious and unscrupulous ways to undermine public confidence in the Government and in the Attorney-General. It is common knowledge that one newspaper proprietor set out to further a campain to undermine the confidence of the Parliament and the Government in the Attorney-General. 
Of course, the Democratic Labor Party has played no small part in this campaign. Its attempt to establish a. committee of inquiry was clearly designed for that committee to present a report, the contents of which would have been a foregone conclusion. On the occasion several weeks ago on which the Democratic Labor Party sought to deal with Wilfred Burchett, it sought to create the same sort of court of inquiry as it did on the occasion in question. It had no arrangements with the Government. Are we to take it. therefore, that we have some obligation in respect of pairs with the Liberal Party senators, who are the only senators who made any sort of arrangements in respect of absentee members of the Senate? Are we to take it that Liberal Party senators will vote en bloc? Is that what  Senator Withers, Senator Greenwood, Senator Wright  and  Senator Young  are putting to the Senate and to the Australian people, that the 3 votes that  Senator Young  claims were denied tonight were votes automatically to be cast in support of the motion submitted by the Democratic Labor Party? Is that what parliamentary democracy is about, that those votes would have automatically been for the adoption of the motion? Is that the sort of way in which the affairs of the Senate are to be conducted, that senators are not to speak for themselves but are in fact to be spoken for by  Senator Young,  the Whip of the Liberal Party? The Government had no arrangements with the Democratic Labor Party for pairs and it was a motion of the Democratic Labor Party which was before the Senate on this occasion. 

 Mr President, in this power struggle and this build-up of tension which has been clearly evident to the Government senators, you have been subjected by  Senator Greenwood, Senator Wright  and more latterly by  Senator Young,  to some part of a policy of intimidation. It has been obvious to the members of the Senate that those senators have been endeavouring to suggest that you should not occupy an impartial position as the  President  of this Senate. It is to your credit that you have not lent yourself to this campaign to deny justice, rights and equality of opportunity to every member of the Senate. 
We had the situation yesterday where  Senator Byrne  attempted to gag a debate, despite the fact that he had made an arrangement with a Government senator who had received the call. He sought to deny the Government senator the right to speak on a procedural matter. As you well know,  Mr President,  the same situation arose today when I received the call.  Senator Kane  was not in the chamber and  Senator Byrne  spoke in order to allow time for  Senator Kane  to come into the chamber and speak. What happened? The moment that  Senator Kane  came into the chamber he moved the gag and denied me the opportunity to speak on this important question involving the integrity of the Attorney- 
General and of the Government. Is this the sort of behaviour which those reasonable members of the Liberal Party condone? 
I do not think that I would be speaking out of turn if I said that I remember occasions in the past when certain members of my own Party have criticised  Senator Murphy  for the co-operation that he sought from and gave to both  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Drake-Brockman  when they were leading the previous Government in this place.  Senator Murphy  had to defend himself on what he considered to be the way in which the leaders of the parties in this place should conduct themselves. That sort of conduct and behaviour has not been extended to  Senator Murphy  in any form of reciprocation in the life of this Parliament. In point of fact, from the moment that this Parliament assembled,  Senator Murphy  has been subjected to vilification, criticism and pressure of a sort which we have not seen for many years. 
We have seen an abuse of power. I think that it is to the detriment of the reasonable men who sit opposite that they have not stood out and tried to curb the abuse of power from the Opposition benches. Of course  Senator Drake-Brockman  spoke in a reasonable way, but where has his voice been in the party room? If he genuinely holds those sentiments, surely the tension that we have seen in this place would not have reached the point of crisis that it did this evening. I can recall honourable senators opposite making very favourable comments about the leadership of  Senator Murphy.  In the last few weeks of the last Parliament I can recall  Senator Hannan  saying that  Senator Murphy  was a gentle and kind person. We on the Government side have not found any change in  Senator Murphy's  attitude. The Government has not endeavoured to abuse its power. 
If there has been a breakdown in communications and relationships between honourable senators, we are entitled to ask where that breakdown has taken place. Several weeks ago we had the spectacle of  Senator Marriott  criticising  Senator Murphy  over the failure to complete - the Address-in-Reply debate.  Senator Murphy  indicated to the Senate that it was not in his power to complete the Address-in-Reply debate because the business of the Senate had been taken out of the hands of the Government. Now, 3 sitting weeks later, we still have not completed the 
Address-in-Reply debate because of the tactics of that extremist element in the Opposition which has sought at every opportunity to embarrass the Government and the AttorneyGeneral. 
This afternoon, Estimates Committee A met in the Senate chamber to consider the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department. Honourable senators would need to have been present at that meeting to believe the disgraceful conduct of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  and to see how they wasted the time of that Committee 
. . . denying any form of proper relationships. That hearing was turned into- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Will the Government make available the voting figures, Sub-division by Sub-division, cast in the 1972 Federal Elections so that an examination of electorates, based on actual persons enrolled, can be made. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Statistical Returns showing the voting within each Sub-division in relation to the 1972 Federal Elections are currently being printed. When available the Returns will be issued to senators and members. In the meantime each senator has been issued with a copy of a return showing the votes recorded at each polling place and Sub-division in the State he represents and each Member of the House of Representatives has been issued with a copy of a return showing the votes recorded at each polling place and Sub-division in the Division he represents. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the discovery at Wee Waa, New South Wales, of a dangerous level of poisoning with organic phosphate insecticides among pilots and other crop-spraying workers? Is he also aware that, due to the high risk of sickness and poisoning, this matter is considered so seriously by Lloyds of London that agricultural pilots seeking loss of flying licence cover are restricted to only accident cover? In view of this fact, will the Minister discuss with the Department of Civil Aviation what steps can be taken to ensure effective supervision and control of the handling of toxic materials in the agricultural aviation industry? 
 The purpose of the proposed changes in the Commonwealth Electoral Act is to bring it into line with the principle of one vote, one value. This will mean a reduction in the variation permissible from the quota specified in section 19 (1.) of the Act from one-fifth to one-tenth or, in other words, from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Also they mean a revision of the factors to which the distribution commissioners are required to give due consideration by deleting references which hitherto have been in the Act. Those references are: Disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, density or sparsity of the population of the division and the area of the division. Finally, it is provided that a redistribution may be directed whenever one-quarter of the number of electors in a division of a State differs from the quota by one-tenth, which is the fraction now inserted in lieu of the previous 20 per cent - one-fifth. 
One would imagine, as a result of the contributions from the speakers who represent the combined view of the Opposition, that the views of the Australian Labor Party have been hidden in past years, that it has never endeavoured to explain itself in respect of the principle of one vote, one value and that it has, in fact, endeavoured to fool the Australian people. The evidence shows that to be contrary to the facts. The evidence shows that the Labor Party, in its policy and platform, has consistently adhered to the principle of one vote one value and has consistently moved in the Houses of Parliament amendments to achieve that objective. Therefore one has to doubt the hysterical statements which were made by some Opposition speakers in an endeavour to draw incorrect conclusions and to suggest that the Government's attitude and its proposal in the Bill are open to other considerations. When introducing the Bill in the other place, the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  made the Government's position quite clear. He said: 
Free elections are basic to a democratic society. But free elections in themselves are not enough - the results must reflect the will of the majority both in individual constituencies and throughout the nation. 
Each Opposition  speaker  has suggested that he agrees with those principles. Yet by the time each had participated in the debate each had gone to a great deal of effort to decry that principle. Of course the greater the tolerance under which distribution commissioners operate the more electorates can be manipulated and gerrymandered. The smaller the tolerance the less opportunity there is for suggestions that manipulation can take place to be given any credence. It is interesting to examine the arguments of the various Opposition speakers. For instance, the previous  speaker. Senator Carrick,  had the temerity to suggest that it was Government speakers who were suggesting that previous redistributions had been fixed by those who had been charged with the responsibility of redistribution, whether they were senior public servants, judges or retired judges. In fact, it was  Senator McManus,  the principal spokesman for the Democratic Labor Party, who in opposing the Government's propositions, made that point and suggested that all redistributions carried out by all governments in the past had been fixed. I challenge  Senator Carrick  to name a Government  speaker  who has suggested that redistributions in the Commonwealth sphere have been influenced by governments, Oppositions or persons who had not been given the responsibility to carry out the redistribution. 
Speakers who opposed the electoral changes - all Opposition speakers - have consistently tried to give a false impression that the Government was attempting to gerrymander the Australian electorate. This is a curious position for them to take,, considering the great electoral gerrymanders which have been carried out by Liberal-Country Party State governments.  Senator Carrick,  who was an official of the State Liberal Party in New South Wales, would know something about that. Here we have this great contradiction. We have one  speaker  for the Opposition,  Senator Carrick,  suggesting that great lengths of time between redistributions were required to prevent frequent redistributions and to allow a settling down situation. Can he explain how it is that the New South Wales Liberal Party, of which he was a significant administrative member when he was a full time ' official, has engaged upon the third redistribution in the past 7 years, whereas the State Labor Government in. its 24 years in office carried out only 4 redistributions? If the State Labor Government, which was defeated in 1965, had been responsible for a bodgie redistribution, which has been suggested by some Opposition speakers,' - it seems that the State Government made a pretty bad fix because it was defeated- at the 1965 election. 
What  Senator Carrick  . seems to fail to understand' is that in the. post-war period there has been the most significant population change in Australia's history. .This significant change requires recognition by Commonwealth and State government's. We are concerned not only with what has been done federally but with what has been done in the States. The Labor Party's, policy, which we are pledged to carry out iri dub course, states that our Government ' is pledged 'to ensure that the House of Representatives and each State House of Parliament is composed of members directly elected from electorates in each of which the number of people is as nearly as practicable the same'. I do not think there is any secret in that. The Party's policy is clear. Its endeavours are clear. Its purposes in introducing: the Bill are not open to anything other than serious consideration. 
Let us look at the subjective situation in the States. It is very interesting to refer to the contribution to the debate of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers.  He pleaded with us to omit any reference to what happens in the States. He said:  1 suggest to all honourable senators that they confine 'the debate on this Bill to what happens under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. If we started to talk' about the gerrymanders that have taken- place under all governments, composed of all parties, of all political colours, in almost all States, we could be here until Christmas.' 
It is interesting to note that the Opposition should take the view that we should not take into consideration what have been the established policies of other governments. We have to examine what has been the attitude of the other political parties. Because  Senator Carrick  and other speakers have endeavoured to attack the motivation of the Government, we are entitled to attack the motivation of the Opposition parties wherever they have been in government. Let us look at the position in Queensland and South Australia. Let us see how little regard the Liberal-Country Party governments in those States had for electoral justice. in Queensland the coalition Government, led by the Country Party, created a gerrymander so great that it was possible for the Labor Party to get  46.75  per cent of the vote, as against  42.23  per cent for the LiberalCountry Party coalition, and yet win only  33  seats as against  47  seats won by the Government. It is significant that no Opposition spokesman has made any reference to that fact. Yet we are asked by the leading Opposition spokesman, the Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Withers,  to make no reference to that gerrymander. In Queensland the Country Party, led by this great democrat Bjelke-Petersen, can poll less than  20  per cent of the total vote and win  26  of the seats. The Labor Party can poll  2i  times that vote and gain only  7  seats more. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party in the other place,  Mr Anthony,  accused the Federal Labor Government of sheer political skulduggery in introducing the Bill. Where is the credibility of the Country Party in these matters? 
In South Australia events over the years were so bad that books were written about the gerrymander in that State. In the  1959  State election - one could go back to each election prior to that and find somewhat the same result - the ruling Liberal Country League received  37  per cent of the vote as against the Labor Party's  49.5  per cent of the vote. Yet the Liberal Country League was returned with  16  seats, while the Labor Party won  13.  Do we hear any complaints from Opposition spokesmen? No, of course we do not, because over the years they have shown themselves to be completely unconcerned about electoral justice. It is a lot of poppycock for  Senator Carrick  to talk about electoral justice, the rights of the voters, the rights of rural communities and the rights of people when he turns a blind eye to gerrymanders of this kind. 
I have already referred to the events that took place in New South Wales recently. In the very week in which this legislation was introduced into the House of Representatives the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government, virtually in the dead of night, rushed a Bill through the New South Wales Parliament without giving the Opposition Party and the Independents in that Parliament an opportunity to consider fully the very drastic alterations that were proposed to the electoral laws of that State. Do honourable senators opposite maintain that that action was taken for the purpose of further^ ing electoral justice? It was taken purely and simply to enhance the fading electoral prospects of the Liberal-Country Party in the election to be held in New South Wales next year. 
There has been a great deal of comment from Opposition speakers, particularly those from the Country Party and  Senator Carrick,  who was the last  speaker  in the debate, about the alleged desirability from the point of view of country people to retain the imbalance that exists between the rural voter and the urban voter. No argument has been advanced to show that, as a result of this imbalance both in the State and Federal Parliaments, the lot of the rural dweller has been improved. There is no evidence to show that a person has to represent a rural voter before he can act and vote conscientiously on matters affecting the rural community. The Opposition Parties favour the retention of a system which is undemocratic and which gives the conservative parties an inbuilt advantage. 
The accusations that the Government is trying to gerrymander the electorate are completely groundless. Not one speaker has produced any evidence to that effect. In fact, it has been the Opposition Parties and their counterparts in the State spheres that have been responsible, when in government, for the greatest gerrymanders in Australia's history. The Government is attempting to reduce the variation from the quota of voters in federal electorates from  20  per cent to  10  per cent. This is not merely a whim of the new Government. The Labor Party has consistently advocated such a proposition in the Parliament since  1961. ' 
It is necessary to examine the motivation of some of the Opposition speakers, particularly  Senator Carrick,  in objecting to this legislation. In his contribution to the debate last evening  Senator Carrick  painted a false picture when he endeavoured to create the impression that the evidence of one of the witnesses before the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review represented the view of that Committee. Quite the contrary is the case. One has only to look at the draft constitutional alterations suggested by that Committee to see that I am correct. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have referred to the all-Party character of the Committee. It was a Committee made up of 12 members. Significantly enough, the principle was established in relation to this Committee of appointing 6 members from the Government side and 6 from the Opposition side. It was not the bodgied up sort of committees that we have seen emanating from the actions of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in this chamber during this session. It was recognised even in 1959 that there should be an all-Party approach to the question of equality of voting power. The Committee made this unanimous recommendation to the Parliament: 
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended that the Constitution be altered- 
Npt 'Parliament changes' but the 'Constitution be altered' -  to provide that - 
the Parliament may make laws dividing each. State into electoral divisions equal in number., to the number of members to be chosen in the State with one member to be chosen for each ' division; 
upon the division of a State into electoral divisions, the number of electors in a division in a State should not exceed by more . than one-tenth, or fall short of by more than onetenth, a quota ascertained by dividing the total number of electors in the State by the number of members to be chosen in that State. 
We have heard a tirade of abuse from  Senator Carrick  - a performance for which he is becoming notorious in recent times - suggesting that there is something ulterior about the Labor Government's attempt to implement the all-Party recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. These recommendations have formed the basis of some of the proposals which the Australian Labor Party has consistently placed before the Parliament whenever amendments of the Commonwealth Electoral Act have been considered. So there is nothing new about the 
Government's proposals on this occasion. They are not a whim. They do not involve a' gerrymander. They are not an attempt to pull;' the wool over the eyes of either the Parliament or the people. Rather are they an attempt to establish parity between the value of city votes and rural votes. One vote one value is a fundamental principle of our democratic system of government. Anything less should not be tolerated. 
I can understand  Senator Webster's  concern because he is involved in the big squeeze that will take place in the next election. But the Senate is dealing with more fundamental things than  Senator Webster's  political survival; it is dealing with principles involving our democratic system of government. 
It is a simple mathematical fact that the margin of 20 per cent, allows one division to have up to 50 per cent more electors than, another- division in the same .State. As a result, we have the sort of imbalance about which. I have spoken in South Australia and Queensland. Let me refer also to. what happened in, for example, New South .Wales in the .196&amp;. election. I quote these figures , only because, they are comparable to those, of all the other elections. It took 26,000 votes, in New South Wales to elect a member of the Labor -Party. Even though the principle of redistribution in ' New South Wales cannot be ''compared with that of Queensland, it took! 20,000 votes to' elect someone from the Country Party and 26,000 to elect someone" from the Liberal Party. Despite the parity that ' exists in New South Wales between the Labor Party and the Liberal Party and despite the disparity that exists in that State between those Parties and the Country Party,  Sir Robert  :Askin, the Premier of New South Wales, is- going about a last minute redistribution because the winds of change are blowing pretty fiercely in New South Wales. He has sought to find some consolation in an electoral redistribution. On the previous occasion when there' was an elec'toral redistribution in New South Wales the Government spokesman who- introduced the Bill into the State Parliament said that the reason there had to be changes -was that the electorate of Temora in New - South Wales had 17,000 voters whereas- the electorate of The Hills had 33,000 voters.' This was regarded as- sufficient justification for the 
Government to make last minute changes to the electoral laws. Of course, in  1968  the figures were  20,000  for Temora and  32,000  for The Hills. So very little had been done to reduce the imbalance that existed between those  2  electorates and which is now being cited by the Liberal-Country Party in New South Wales as justification for a last minute electoral change. 
The justification for the variations is that consideration should be given to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of a division and the area of a division. Surely in this day and age those factors ought to be taken more into consideration than they would have been in the previous  70  years of which  Senator Carrick  spoke. We do not have the communication problems in  1973  that we had in  1906.  If difficulties do exist, I am sure the Parliament could be prevailed upon to provide additional resources to those members who may experience some difficulties in servicing their constituents because of the area of their electorates. However, the difficulties do not warrant the sacrificing of the principle of one vote one value. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr Snedden,  agrees with my contention, because when he was speaking on this Bill in that chamber he said: 
. one vole one value. I do not reject that concept but I say quite specifically and unequivocally that there is no time at which that can be achieved in all its pristine purity. Nevertheless the law should do all it can to as near as practicably achieve it. 
So the Leader of the Opposition in the other place has suggested that we should work towards this objective. But if one considers the contributions from honourable senators opposite one finds they suggested that there is something ulterior, something to be feared in the legislation which the Government has brought before the Parliament. What has to be considered is that elected governments should be truly representative of the will of the people, but there is sufficient evidence to show that that is not the case in a number of State government areas. There is sufficient evidence to indicate that if the present imbalance which exists in the Federal sphere is not be corrected, the same sort of imbalanced government could emerge. 
We are entitled to say that people living in rural areas have no need for greater representation in the national Parliament than do people who live in the cities. We know that more than  80  per cent of the people live in the cities and that it was in the cities where the voting changes took place at the last election. The plight of the people living in cities occupied the attention of the Labor Party and resulted in the Labor Party being elected to office. It has never been suggested that we are not concerned about the problems facing the other  20  per cent of the people. If we are not frustrated by honourable senators opposite, we will be introducing legislation to take into consideration the problems facing the people who live outside the great metropolises and also the needs of those people. 
In due course the honourable senator will be surprised at the legislation which this Government has in mind. It will solve the problems which  Senator Webster's  party failed to solve in the  23  years in which it was a part of the coalition Government. Last evening we listened to a great contribution from  Senator McManus.  He selected isolated reports of the Victorian Labor Party and of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and suggested that there should be drastic alterations in the whole electoral system. I thought that we were to be asked to vote on an amendment; that is what I thought he was suggesting when he spoke in this debate. It is interesting to note that now that the Australian Democratic Labor Party faces the prospect of having its number of representatives reduced from  5  to  2  in a Senate election, it is putting pressure on the Victorian Liberal Party and possibly on the Victorian Country Party to change the voting system in that State in order to provide for proportional representation, or whatever other name  Senator McManus  calls this new voting procedure. It is interesting to note that hitherto the Democratic Labor Party has not shown any great interest in voting procedures. But now that there is a distinct possibility that members of that Party may be out of jobs very shortly, they are resurrecting the matter of proportional representation with a view to finding jobs for their representatives. 
It is true, as  Senator McManus  stated, that there are members of the Labor Party - and I would be one of them - who believe that there is some merit in the proportional system. There is nothing wrong with having a private view about these matters, anymore than there was in  Mr Cameron  having a point of view about proportional representation, or in the same point of view being expressed by a committee of the Victorian Labor Party. I am not sure whether that committee finally got its view adopted as the policy of that Party, but that is quite immaterial. The fact is that many people in the Labor Party probably would agree that there should be changes in the electoral system. 
Therefore, it is rather novel for  Senator McManus  of the Democratic Labor Party to suggest to us that it does not matter very much what we do. He says that the system can be fixed, whether there is a 20 per cent variable or a 10 per cent variable. Other Opposition speakers say that the end of the world will come if we reduce the variable from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. I do not know who is the expert on this matter. Is  Senator McManus  the expert? Members of the Democratic Labor Party are seeking to become the leaders of the Opposition in this place; that is the way in which they have been carrying on in recent times. Who are we to believe? Are we to believe that  Senator Withers  speaks on behalf of the Opposition, or that  Senator McManus  speaks on behalf of the Opposition? Their contributions are quite contradictory. 
The question of an optional preferential system has been raised as some sort of red herring in the debate. I am one who would be prepared to look at any reasonable proposition and to take into consideration all the views of the various political parties regarding the question of voting changes. But to suggest that the Labor Party is committed to a firm policy on this matter, that it is seeking to ignore the expressed will of the people and that it is seeking to bring about a situation where there will be elected a government that will not reflect the will of the people is quite contrary to the expressed views of the Leader of the Labor Party, of the platform of the Party and of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which found sufficient weight of evidence to make a unanimous recommendation to the Parliament in 1959. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman, on behalf of the Country Party, spent a great deal of time denigrating the Labor Party's approach to electoral reform. He took us all around the world in order to justify his action. Other honourable senators also did this. Honourable senators from my side of the chamber who took part in the debate have shown that there is sufficient evidence to indicate that we do not have to draw upon the lessons of other countries. We have to apply electoral com* mon sense based on experiences in our own country. Nothing has been said in the debate to date to suggest- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to reports that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party.  Mr Anthony,  have criticised the proposed French nuclear tests in the Pacific? Is the Minister aware that spokesmen for all other political parties, with the exception of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, have also supported the Government's opposition to the tests? Is it true that the Democratic Labor Party actually wants Australia to develop its own nuclear capacity but that the Australian Government is totally opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons? 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Bill be withdrawn until the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations presents its report on the matter referred to it by the Senate on 7th October 1971. viz: 
That effects of estate, succession probate, death and like duties, imposed by both Commonwealth and State governments, on - 
the revenues of the respective Governments (having regard to cost factors involved in their collection): and 
economic circumstances of individuals and communities. 
The social consequences of levying such duties and taxes'. 
It is rather unfortunate that the Senate should be wasting its time dealing with this Bill introduced by  Senator Kane  seeking the termination of estate duty because the Senate on 7th October 1971 referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the investigation of this matter. A considerable amount of time and energy has been put into examining the whole problem of estate duty as imposed in the Federal sphere as well as by the various States. As late as Tuesday of this week, that Committee completed its public hearings. Only one witness remains to be interviwed, that is. the Commissioner of Taxation. The Committee then will present to the Senate a report of its findings. 
The inquiry by the Committee has been most exhaustive. AH of the points that have been expressed in debates in the Senate have been most seriously considered by the Committee. Many eminent persons in our community - those who can be considered to be experts in the field of estate duty and taxation generally - have had the opportunity to present not only verbal but written submissions on this important matter. Thirteen public hearings have been held in the course of which some 45 witnesses, including representatives from Government departments, economists, lawyers, accountants and other specialists as well as a number of private individuals, have given the Committee the benefit of their information and knowledge. In addition written submissions were received and are still being considered by the Committee. On Tuesday of mis week, the Committee gave authority to its officers to draw up its recommendations. 
In the light of these facts, and considering the Government's heavy legislative program, it is rather strange that the Senate should be debating a Bill of this nature, containing proposals which have been endorsed already on several occasions in the past as expressing the will of the Senate, which relates to a matter on which the Senate can express only an opinion. Any vote on this legislation is not capable of being any more than an expression of opinion and in fact has no standing or bearing at all. One can only come to the conclusion that this is another example of political window dressing by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Having recognised that they are in a position where they cannot sustain the electoral support that they have been able to gain in past years, the DLP senators are now faced with the possibility of seeing their forces reduced in this place from 5 senators to 2 senators and are adopting what will surely be construed as an irresponsible attitude. The more one looks at the statement made by  Senator Kane  in his contribution in this place, the more one can see how irresponsible is  Senator Kane's  contribution in this debate and how irresponsible, the attitude the DLP is in this matter. The weight of the evidence is not to be found in the contribution made by  Senator Kane. 
The facts are quite simple, lt is a pity that those DLP senators who are trying to interject now have not taken the time to read the Hansard reports of the Committee's deliberations. If they did, they would find that of the amount totalling nearly $300m that is collected annually by the Commonwealth and the States as estate and death duties, the Commonwealth receives by far the smallest amount of those duties. It receives approximately $70m per annum. The States are the principal beneficiaries from these taxes. One has only to look at the Budgets of the various States to see this. I have taken the trouble to refer only to the Budget papers of the New South Wales Government because, as a senator from New South Wales, they are easily available to me. Comparisons made between New South Wales and the other States will reveal similar situations. What are the facts? Probate and death duties in New South Wales bring the State Government, in excess of 12 per cent of its total taxation revenue. When the DLP contests State elections, it has never suggested that State governments should abolish estate or death duties. It is suggesting now that those duties should be abolished at the Commonwealth level only. 
The evidence that has been put before tha Senate Standing Committee shows an abundance of opinion from those who are more specialised in this field advocating that the Commonwealth should nol opt out of the field of death duties. In fact, the weight of all the expert evidence is that the Commonwealth should stay in the field of death duties and, if necessary, collect these duties on behalf of the States. A powerful argument can be made out in favour of uniformity with respect to estate duties. Why should this not be so? lt is  interesting to find the DLP talking of a merger with the Country Party in Queensland where the Country Party runs that State, and then to have a look- 
It will be a merger or an absorption. It does not matter what the DLP calls it. That is what  Senator Gair  has advocated in that State. It is most interesting to see the quota adopted in Queensland with respect to death duties. It seems that those honourable senators who have so much to say on this matter and who are still trying to interject do not appreciate these facts: An estate does not qualify for an assessment realisation for Commonwealth estate duty unless its value is $40,000 or more. In Queensland, under the Country Party Government, all estates valued at $15,000 and above are assessed. The Commonwealth in its wisdom in 1972-73 Budget adopted by the Parliament extended the range of benefits with respect to estate duty rather considerably, especially for primary producers. 
A considerable amount of the evidence available to us shows that a case exists for some improvement on the manner in which death duties are implemented. But the main area in which changes and amendments should be made relate to State jurisdiction. The evidence presented to members of the Senate Standing Committee - and all Parties were represented on that Committee - showed overwhelmingly that the bulk of the difficulties suffered by those with small estates flows from the imposition of estate or death duties at the State level. Therefore, I point to honourable senators that by our action we are virtually jumping the gun. The Senate by even discussing  Senator Kane's  Bill is in fact denying the value of the many countless hours of work that senators and witnesses have put into the examination of the reference made to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in October 1971. We are indebted to  Senator Negus  because it was on his initiative that the Senate finally took the  step to refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the terms of reference relating to estate duty. There is no doubt from the Committee's examination of the issues that a great deal of hardship has been occasioned to the community. But I point out, as the Hansard record and the subse quent report will show, that the hardship is not at the Commonwealth level. The amendments to statutory provisions on which estates are assessed have so improved those provisions over the years that the bulk of the problems that now exist are due to estate duty administered at the State level.  Senator Kane,  in his speech to the Senate, said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to terminate Commonwealth estate duty. 1 know that  Senator Negus  realises that that is a misnomer. That is pulling the wool over people's eyes because the Senate cannot terminate Commonwealth involvement in estate duty. It is not within its mandate. It can only give an expression of opinion. The matter involved here is a matter of Government policy and a matter associated with budget considerations. He also said: 
Commonwealth estate duly has become an oppressive, punitive and discriminatory tax . . . 
That flies in the face of the truth of the matter. If it is a discriminatory tax -  i  suggest that it is - as I have said previously, it lies in the areas of State jurisdiction. When the States insist on estates being assessed at the level of $15,000, as is the case in 2 of the States, and when the level in all states is considerably lower than the level at which the Commonwealth levies estate duty, it is not true to say that it is the Commonwealth that is the bad boy in this whole area of estate duty. Honourable senators should be aware that when the States introduced estate duties or death duties, depending upon .he terminology of the legislation from State to State, it was done for the purpose of breaking up large estates. That was the purpose of the tax. The Commonwealth entered the field in 1914. It did so purely as a revenue producer. Of course, there is no doubt - the evidence of the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee show this - that it has developed State by State and, to an extent, federally, into a tax which the wealthy have evaded by estate planning and by tax avoidance schemes on a massive scale. The Committee found that this situation existed because lawyers and accountants appeared before it and were able to convince it - I am sure that I am able to speak on behalf of all the members - that there was wholesale tax avoidance by the wealthy. In point of fact, the more wealthy you are the more you are able to rearrange your estate. 
Honourable senators say: 'Why not let the Committee present its report?' 
That is precisely what wc seek to do. 
If honourable senators are prepared to indicate that they will give serious consideration, to the amendment which I have proposed on behalf of the Committee, there is not a great deal of argument to be engaged in. After all, 1 have to deal with the subject matter that is before us. I am quite happy if it is the will of the Senate in the face of the evidence and the remarks that I have made that we withdraw the resolution and adjourn the debate until such time as the Senate has an opportunity to have the report of the Committee presented to it. If that is the will of the Senate, I am quite happy to bow to it. If I can be given an assurance that the Senate is prepared to give me leave to amend my motion this debate could be adjourned and we could then argue whether the Commonwealth should remain in the area of estate duty or withdraw from it completely. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation.Is the Minister aware that the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, a body embracing employees of Australian airlines, is not a registered body under the terms of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ? Is the Minister aware that a body known as the Air Pilots' Guild is, however, registered as an employee association under that Act? Is it a fact that this registered body has, since registration, been denied any opportunity to enrol members or to make any industrial agreement with Government or private airline operators? Will the Minister give consideration to granting equal opportunities to the Air Pilots' Guild, and ending the previous Government's policy of discrimination? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that oil companies have decided on a policy of rationalisation of service stations? Does the Minister recognise that as a result of this long overdue decision, hundreds of sites will become surplus to oil company requirements as retail outlets? Is the Minister aware that many of these surplus sites are on highways and in areas generally regarded as congested urban areas? In view of the Government's decision to establish a national estate body to extend and protect open space, will the Minister suggest to the oil companies that the sites be made available to the public as park or open space areas at a nominal cost? 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission for some years has planned a major $20m complex in the William and Forbes Streets area in Sydney? Is it not a fact that some 26 different offices scattered around Sydney are being used by the ABC? Without detracting from the desirability of housing all of the ABC's activities in a single building, will the Minister acknowledge that the new Government's policy in the Sydney business district is to restrict public development in the overall interest of decentralisation? Will the Minister discuss with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Minister for Works the possibility of resiting this complex outside the Sydney business district? 
 My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, concerns recent publicity about the appointment of  Mr K.  Milte to carry out an inquiry into tha Northern Territory Police Force. I ask: Is it a fact that  Mr Milte's  appointment was made in the same way as appointments of this kind normally would be made? Is it a fact that his name was submitted by the Attorney-General's Department, along with 3 others, to the Northern Territory Legislative Council, which chose  Mr Milte  from the list provided to carry out the inquiry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Is it a fact that in 1964-65 a study of aircraft fatigue in international aircraft was conducted by the Aeronautical Research Laboratories of the Department of Supply, and that the report on that study was submitted to the Director-General . of Civil Aviation in April 1965? In view of the continuing introduction of sophisticated highperformance jet aircraft into service with the domestic airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd and the far-reaching consequences that the introduction of such aircraft will have on safety, the environment and unemployment, and in the interests of open government, will the Minister take steps to have this important report released for public examination or at least made available for perusal by members of the Parliament? 
 I oppose the amendment which seeks to defer consideration of the Bill, for the obvious reason that the matter contained in the Bill has been on the parliamentary agenda, in one way or another, for far too long. It was first mooted in the Parliament on 18 October 1967, which means that it is rising 6 years old, when the then Minister for National Development in the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government,  Mr Fairbairn,  announced that the Commonwealth Government had reached a compromise with the States and that the Commonwealth Government was preparing a Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill. It might be supposed that in subsequent years those who are now taking the view that the Bill, which the Government has introduced into the Senate for endorsement by the Senate, should be stood over until August could have endeavoured to get the legislation before the Parliament on numerous occasions. Therefore one can draw the conclusion that an amendment which seeks to defer debate on the Bill to a later stage is nothing more than a cheap political trick which is designed to overcome certain difficulties which exist among members of the Opposition Parties who are seeking preselection for the forthcoming Senate election. That is hardly the business of this place. It is hardly the. way for the Parliament to concern itself with important legislative considerations. It is a matter which should be regretted by anybody who believes in parliamentary democracy. 
I find it difficult to understand the logic of those who seek to shelve this Bill on the fourth occasion that it has been before the Parliament, particularly as so many honourable senators opposite who are opposing the deliberation of the Bill and who are seeking its deferment for further consideration were members of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources, which presented an interim report in September 1970. It seems to me that there is a great deal of double talk or shilly-shallying going on among many senators who will support the amendment. Apparently they have had second thoughts on the matter. Therefore one must doubt their integrity on the matter. Page 123 of that report states: 
The Committee believes that the lack of resolution of the question of where authority lies in the offshore seabed is not in the national interest. 
That report was signed by  Senator Greenwood  as  Chairman  and was submitted to the Senate on 1 September .1970, which is almost 3 years ago. Page 126 of the report states: 
The Committee considers that, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial seabed and the continental shelf. 
Admittedly that legislation was different legislation. It dealt with off-shore petroleum resources. But that paragraph has application to this Bill. Members of the Opposition who, undoubtedly, will be dragooned into supporting the amendment and who took part in various stages of the Select Committee's determinations include  Senator Greenwood, Senator Gair, Senator Laucke, Senator Webster, Senator Young, Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright.  I named only those who seem to be identified with and in favour of the amendment. Is it seriously suggested that the matter should be deferred again, in the light of the recommendations of the Select Committee and in the light of the determinations of governments for almost the past 6 years? Considerable doubt must be cast on the veracity of those who are seeking to sweep this under the carpet. On 2 occasions it has been the subject of reference to the Parliament by the Governor-General. My recollection is that it was the same GovernorGeneral, acting clearly on the advice of his Ministers. On 3 March 1970 he raised a matter which relates to the delaying tactics which are now adopted by the Opposition. He said: 
At present, the various State governments claim sovereign rights in respect of such resources from low water mark to the outer limits of the shelf. The Commonwealth believes that, except for internal waters as they existed at federation, it has sovereign rights in this area. 
It is the view of my Government that it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved. In order that this may happen, my Government will ask the Parliament to pass legislation to assert and establish what the Commonwealth conceives to be its legal rights. 
That statement by the Governor-General was referred to again in the Governor-General's Speech which was delivered at the opening of this Parliament in 1973. So that was consistency. I am asked: 
What did the Government do to the legislation? On 16 April 1970 a statement was made to the Parliament by  Mr Swartz  the then Minister for National Development. I imagine it followed the express intention of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government when, I think,  Mr Gorton  was the Prime Minister.  Mr Swartz  said: 
The object of the Bill is to cany out the Government's decision, concisely stated by His Excellency the Governor-General in his speech at the opening of the present session, to introduce legislation asserting and establishing the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to exercise sovereign control over the resources of the seabed off the Austalian coast, from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf . . . The Commonwealth believes ... the States have no such rights ... it would serve Australia's national and international interests to have the legal position resolved as soon as practicable. 
The Parliament did not throw it out. Honourable senators will recall the political crisis that convulsed the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and that the then Prime Minister at the end of a very short but snappy Press-inspired campaign was removed from office and his successor appointed. That is history. Even this year  Mr Sinclair,  who was a Minister in the previous Government, said: 'The Bill before the House has had a long gestation'. It is. clear that Opposition senators will add: 'It should have been longer'. Honourable senators know that the Government's expressed will could and should have been carried out in the life of a previous Parliament by a previous Government. When the Bill was first introduced in 1967 and subsequently in 1970 every member in the House of Representatives who spoke in the debate - I am absolving the Senate from any participation in this - agreed that it was urgent and in the national interest that this legislation or similar legislation introduced by the Government at that time be passed through both Houses of Parliament. Then of course the doubletracking, the delay and the procrastination as a result of the reaction from the States, occurred. Of course, the States are clearly expressing their will through members of this Senate. Does anybody seriously suggest that the States, having had 6 years of clear-cut warning of the views of the Parliament, or of what one would construe to be the majority view of the Parliament in 1967 and 1970 and to this time in the House of Representatives, will change their point of view? They have expressed the view that they do not intend to surrender their rights and that they intend to utilise to the full their legal rights to challenges this legislation before the Privy Council or in any other jurisdiction to establish what they consider to be their sovereign rights. They have already expressed that determination. Honourable senators have reference to that and to the fact that the Premiers of all the States have a common interest. Let them take that course of action. It is available to them. Let them use the legal avenues that are available. But let us not have the time of the Parliament wasted. Let us resolve this matter and then the Premiers may take the decisions of this Parliament to the appropriate court to have the matter finally resolved. 
We must recognise that Australia has one of the longest coastlines in the world and probably one of the richest continental shelves. What is involved here is a desire on the part of the States to retain what probably is potentially, if not an accepted fact, a rich source of minerals, a source of great wealth. This will provide an opportunity for the States to solve the pressing financial dilemma in which they find themselves. This applied particularly in the post-war years. But we suggest that by resolving this matter they should let the Commonwealth receive the right to control these important resources and gain financially from the proper exploitation of them. Surely it is not argued that the Commonwealth will not adopt a reasonable attitude about the wealth that will flow into the Commonwealth's coffers as far as a better deal for the States is concerned. 
I think that honourable senators would appreciate that there are many of us in the Parliament from all States who believe that the States have had a raw deal in the matter of financial arrangements with the Commonwealth. Undoubtedly when the Commonwealth gains access to the tremendous wealth that exists on the continental shelf we will be placing Commonwealth finances on a very strong and worthwhile basis and we will see a flow-on of that wealth to the States. So the States have no reason to be concerned about lost revenue which clearly is a matter on which they are basing the Commonwealth's intention. This is the principal reason why the 
Commonwealth finds itself in conflict with the States. States believe that the wealth which is within the resources along the continental shelf should be theirs with which to balance their budgets and to carry out their public works responsibilities. We cannot concede that. But no one can suggest that those of us in the Government who have some regard for the problems facing the States would say that when the Commonwealth gains access to the resources of the continental shelf the States will not receive due consideration and have access to the funds which will be derived from the exploitation of those resources. 
I do not think that any honourable senator has suggested - I have not heard it - that the off-shore problems do not require national determination. By shelving this legislation we would do what has been done for the last 6 years - we would be putting it aside; we would not be resolving it. The States would still be in the uncertain position in which they have been. The Commonwealth is still asserting its authority, no matter which political party is in government, and the matter remains in the area of uncertainty. The object of the Bill is to provide legislative jurisdiction clearly and concisely to assert national sovereign rights over the resources in the continental shelf. The Government's policy has been clearly expressed. Nobody has any doubts as to where the Labor Government stands on this, and nobody has any doubt where the Liberal Party stood on this until the pressures came from the various States. It is a matter of regret that the States have been able to exercise such influence as would prevent the Commonwealth resolving this matter. In fact, the States are having 2 bites at this cherry. They are saying: 'We will exercise what influence we can on the Party affiliations within the Senate by bringing pressure to bear on those who want to be renominated in order to contest the next election for their Party'. This influence is being exerted by the State machines of the various political parties, the Australian Democratic Labor Party excepted. The States then say: 'In addition, we will challenge the legislation in the highest court of the land'. Why do not Opposition senators take the broader view and let this matter be resolved? There is no room for bargaining and no room for discussion because they have expressed themselves so many times as being opposed to any compromise or further negotiation. The matter has been discussed not only at the Party levels but also in 1971 by the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral. It has been discussed many times, as I have indicated, in the House of Representatives. So one can only draw the conclusion that the Opposition has some other motivation for attempting to delay consideration of this Bill. Perhaps it fears the legal position. Perhaps it fears that should the Parliament pass the legislation the States may well find themselves in an impossible legal position. 
The States are using the provisions of an outdated Constitution which clearly was written in such a way as not to take into consideration the great changes that have occurred in our national life. The States are using this outdated Constitution as an obstruction to the logical processes of Commonwealth jurisdiction. I cannot see how any court could and for the States. The Founding Fathers determined this when, at the turn of the century, they gave external and national power to the Commonwealth. That is when the States lost this fight. The States lost the fight in 1901 when they did not have written into the Constitution a clear definition of who was to be in charge of the waters beyond low water mark. 
Whilst we can understand the reluctance of the States to accept the inevitability of change and to recognise the new conditions and new wealth that could not even have been dreamt about 70-odd years ago, we nevertheless have to accept the principle that the States have determined their attitude and that there is no room for negotiation with them. All that the States are doing now is using the back of the axe, as it were, to try to achieve their objectives. There is sufficient evidence in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources on this matter. We are indebted to the members of the Senate Select Committee for their determination in inquiring into off-shore petroleum resources, as they have established pretty broad principles on off-shore ownership.  Sir Percy  Spender when Chief Justice of the International Court of Justice said: lt is quite clear historically, if one examines the description of the territory placed under governorship, the territory of the original colony of New South Wales except as to certain islands of the Pacific did nol extend beyond the low water mark. 
I think that in order to establish sovereignty in these matters I should draw the attention of honourable senators to what Captain Cook said. A particularly relevant portion, which is taken out of the log of the 'Endeavour', states: 
Having satisfied myself of the great Probability of a Passage thro' which I intend going with the Ship and therefore may land no more upon this Eastern Coast of 'New Holland' and on the Western side I can make no new discovery the honour of which belongs to the Dutch Navigators but the Eastern Coast from the Latitude of 38° South down to this place I am confident was never seen or visited by any European before us and Notwithstand I had in the Name of  His  Majesty taken possession of several places upon this coast I now once more hoisted English Coulers and in the Name of  His  Majesty King George the Third took possession of the whole Eastern Coast from the above Latitude down to this place by the name of New South Wales, together with all the Bays, Harbours Rivers and Islands situate upon the said coast . . . 
There was no suggestion in Captain Cook's day and there was certainly no suggestion in 1901 that the claim of the States had validity. I think the legal position is fairly clear. If this debate is adjourned, the Senate will be attempting to sit as a High Court and to determine the question of sovereignty over the continental shelf. 
I think the Opposition senators can be charged with obstructing the course of political justice, or back-tracking on their clearly expressed views over a number of years and of succumbing to the pressures of State governments which, on so many questions, do not see the national interest in perspective. Of course, it is in these circumstances that we have to look at the proposal by Opposition senators to delay the consideration of this Bill as they have attempted to do over the last several weeks. They have used every opportunity to hamstring the Government. They have used every opportunity to amend legislation. They have used every opportunity to take the business of the Government in this place out of the hands of the Government. They have made every endeavour to delay the passage of legislation for which we have a clear mandate. There can be no question about the Government's intentions. There can be no question about the Labor Party's policies. There can be no question about the contents of the electoral program that  Mr Whitlam  placed before the Australian people. There can be no question about Labor's proposals as outlined in the Governor-General's Speech, or about where the Government stands. Yet we find this procrastination, delay and tactical considerations being adopted by Opposition senators. 
When this legislation was about to be brought before the Senate a week or so ago there was no suggestion that there was to be a delay in considering the matter. Agreements had been reached in the other place. Then counter-action took place. Somebody started to scurry around the back corridors of power in Canberra in order to compose the differences within the Opposition parties. We were then confronted with an amendment seeking to adjourn consideration of the Bill. That action seems to me to be taking the affairs of this place out of the hands of the Government and placing them in the party backroom manoeuvre area. That is a tactic which I am sure the Australian people will see through, which I am sure the Australian people will not appreciate and which I am sure in the long run will act against the national interest. 
 The amendment proposed by  Senator Lawrie  is not acceptable to the Government. 
But the proposition to which  Senator Lawrie  referred when speaking about a proposed amendment during the course of his speech reveals that there is some confusion in the minds of Opposition senators as to the Government's intentions. Clearly the Government seeks to amend the National Urban and Regional Development Bill 1972, a Bill which it might be remembered was presented to the Parliament in the dying stages of the McMahon administration. I want to point out to honourable senators the consistency of the Labor Party in regard to this matter, because on that occasion we sought to have the Bill withdrawn and redrafted because we said that it was creating only an investigatory and advisory body which would have no authority. Of course, with this Bill we are endeavouring to implement the original legislation and to establish the forms by which the Department of Urban and Regional Development will operate and to define clearly the areas in which the new Cities Commission will operate. 
On the occasion when the National Urban and Regional Development Bill was before us we said that the purpose of our amendment was to cope with the problems of urban and regional development. A great deal was made in the House of Representatives when it was dealing with the Cities Commission Bill, which we are currently debating, of the suggestion that changes should be made to take regional development into account and consideration. I believe we have had evidence of confusion both in the House of Representatives and in the debate that has taken place so far in the Senate. The purpose of the Bill is to establish a Cities Commission. If honourable senators will take the time to read the second reading speech they will find that the Government's proposals do not limit the Government's interest in this area just to cities in the sense of those existing major metropolises. In fact, the Government will be dealing with the problems of city development in the urban areas as well as those problems which arise in the establishment of new cities in the regional areas or, if you like, in the rural areas. The Government showed its bona fides during the debate in the House of Representatives. When the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  on behalf of the Opposition, moved certain amendments the Government considered them and accepted them, although it did reject a number of the amendments moved by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  which in many ways sought to compound the confusion which seems to exist in the minds of so many honourable senators opposite and their colleagues in the House of Representatives. 
There will be several roles for the Cities Commission. The Cities Commissioners will conduct studies of regional areas for a variety of reasons. It must be conceded that we will not solve the problems of growth in our major capital cities without rearranging resources and creating growth centres in rural areas. I suggest to honourable senators that they examine the policies that have been pursued by some State governments in the area of decentralisation. There has been a dissipation of resources by State governments. They have rejected the concept of growth centres and in a great number of centres, have endeavoured to establish industry or some government activity, largely of a State nature. Their objective has been to arrest the decline that is evident in so many country centres in every State of the Commonwealth. The New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government in recent years has spent about $3 Om to arrest the decline of rural centres by encouraging industry to those centres, but because its energies and resources have been dissipated it has not succeeded in arresting that decline. Consequently the concept of an establishment of growth centres has developed and been accepted. 
These studies, which will be the responsibility of the Cities Commission, will be aimed at assessing the potential growth of a region and its ability to plan for a rapid population growth. Many of the centres will have to be looked at from the point of view of the amount of public investment which can be attracted to them and how we will get private development of these new centres. The Cities Commission will also play a leading role in the establishment of new cities and will assist in the early stages of their development. Clearly this will have to be done in cooperation with the State governments. Of course, the National Urban and Regional Development Authority is, and has been since its inception, playing a vital part in establishing in co-operation with the States new concepts of new city development. The first project is in the Albury-Wodonga area. Honourable senators are aware that there are great problems in the organisation of such a development and in determining a strategy in respect of land use, the acquisition of land without the influence of speculation, the enticement of government activity into the area and the reallocation of resources, so that the AlburyWodonga experiment will be a success. This requires co-operation with the local authority. It requires planning in concert with the citizens of that region. It requires co-operation with the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government. This is a big concept. 
It appears to me that those who have been suggesting amendments or new attitudes towards this Bill believe that because the Government has talked about cities it is not interested in the problems of city development in rural areas. The new Commission to a large degree will act as a professional consultant to the Department of Urban and Regional Development in respect of physical planning and in this way will pay a very important part as a further arm of the existing National Urban and Regional Development Authority. The Government does not seek to supplant or over-emphasise the role of city development, but an authority will be delegated especially to examine the growth centres and to give some consideration to the problems of life in the existing cities. The Commission will also be available for consultation and to provide advice and information to State governments. I think the coordinating role of this Commission will be obvious to all. It will also provide to semi and local government authorities ready access to material and experience. The question of water supply in the Albury-Wodonga area is a matter of considerable consequence. Clearly a great deal of study needs to be given to the planning of a future water supply for that region, knowing as we do the effect that it will have upon other towns and regions which are not necessarily immediately close to the Albury-Wodonga region. 
I am sure that if members of the Opposition, both in the other place and in the Senate, had read the Bill and understood what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  was talking about a great deal of time would have been saved. One has only to read the speeches of those who spoke against the Bill or attempted to, to be aware of the degree of confusion that exists. We said when the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill was introduced last year that it lacked teeth. This has been borne out by the fact that the Government has had to bring in a new Bill, a further legislative arm, to transform the purely advisory role of the existing body into a more active role. It has been interesting to hear the comments made so far in the debate, but I draw to the attention of honourable senators the fact that for  22i  years the Liberal and Country Parties said no in response to all requests for assistance for an active policy of decentralisation. They said no to the request of local government for financial assistance and permitted the great deterioration which we know has taken place in most of the major capital cities in the Commonwealth. 
One wonders whether in the Senate we are going through a stage of amendmentitis because every piece of legislation that the Government brings forward in order to carry out its mandate seems to be subjected to amendments. Some of these already have seriously emasculated many of the Bills that have passed through the other House or have tended to weaken the efficiency of the legislation and of the authorities which we are seeking to set up in various areas of the Government's administration. We should look at every Bill that comes before this House and, without detracting from the ability of the Senate to amend Bills, we must ask why so much emphasis is placed upon an interpretation of the objectives that the Government has set for itself in the Bill. This Bill seeks to change the composition of the Authority so that instead of there being one commissioner there will be a full-time  chairman  of commissioners as well as 4 part-time commissioners. 
When  Mr Gorton  suggested that there should be some addition to the number of part-time commissioners, the Government listened to what he proposed and, in the interest of support for the general concepts of the Bill, decided to accept his amendments. 
There are good reasons for changing the composition of the old Authority. Firstly, there will be responsibility under the Act giving the Commission greater protection and greater independence from external pressures. When we consider that we are proposing to allocate tremendous resources to the growth centres which have been selected, I am sure honourable senators will appreciate that the Commission needs to have a great deal of independence because of the pressures which will be exerted not only nationally but by State and local government bodies. Secondly, the Cities Commission will be a bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. It is our intention, as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has said in so many of his speeches, that co-operation will be the keynote of all our activities. We will be encouraging the participation of the States in the work of the Commission. I think that already there is evidence that the Victorian and New South Wales governments have found ways to work with the Commonwealth on such a project. I refer to the first growth centre in the Albury-Wodonga region. Thirdly, the new structure of the Cities Commission will provide an opportunity for a study of a wider range of interests. 
Unfortunately the Opposition has indicated, by its response to the Bill, that it does not understand the nature, of the Commission. The Commission is purely and simply an arm of the Department of Urban and Regional Development which was set up last year. It is not the Department, it is not replacing the Department. The Department, which seems to be the rock on which we have faltered here, is the principal authority and the framework by which the Government will carry out a much needed change in the pattern of development and settlement in Australia. One finds the opposition to these proposals somewhat difficult to understand. So one comes to the conclusion that it is opposition only for opposition's sake. It has been suggested that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been rather slow in his endeavours in this area. As one who has had some association with him in the preparation of his 
Department, I am more than ever convinced that the previous Government understood little of the problems of urban development of new growth centres and of major cities in outer regions. It is to the credit of the Minister that he has been able, in the first session of this Parliament, to present to the Parliament 2 Bills which will carry into effect the exciting role which the Government has for the Department to play in improving the quality of life of Australians. 'Quality of life' is no longer a cliche, it is an objective which this Government has accepted. It is a challenge which the Government has accepted. It should be recognised as a challenge to the Parliament. 
We will seek to make federalism work. We will seek to co-operate with the States and the authorities in the various growth centres and give them the goodwill and understanding which, I am sure, will be available. I am sure that at the end of a short period the Cities Commission will be an important part of the framework of the future growth centres and will be improving life in the major cities. There is no doubt that when we discuss other questions associated with urban and regional development we will be saying a lot more about the plight of people who live on the outskirts of our major cities. There is a great deal to be done. One hardly ever picks up a newpaper without seeing evidence of the problems of those who are poverty-stricken in so many of the outer suburbs of our existing cities. So the Government, in addition to developing its interest in the growth centres, will be placing, through the Cities Commission, further emphasis on how it will become involved in the reconstruction and improvement of the quality of life in our urban areas. We have no need to apologise for presenting the Bill to the Parliament. We hope that the Opposition will look at it objectively, that it will not seek to amend it in such a way as to render it ineffective and that the Opposition will give the Government a chance to begin its wonderful objectives of restructuring life in the cities, of re-allocating resources and generally of improving the quality of life in both city and urban areas. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that some States have enacted legislation which, in some circumstances, permits the tapping of private telephones? Referring to recent questions directed to the Attorney-General about the limited number of approvals given by the Commonwealth, does the Minister concede that the will of the Commonwealth is being breached by some State authorities? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the States have any legal rights to intercept private telephone calls? If not, what action can be taken to protect the privacy of telephone conversations? 
 The Government, of course, will reject the proposed amendment to be moved by  Senator Rae.  The Government welcomes the support which the Australian Democratic 
Labor Party will give to it on this Bill. It is a matter of regret that the honourable senators who have spoken representing the Liberal Party and the Country Party viewpoint have adopted such a backward approach to the whole question of public housing. This is nothing new. If one likes to examine the speeches that were made in the period of office of the immediate post war Labor Government which introduced a CommonwealthState housing agreement which was an endeavour to establish public housing on a firm basis, one would feel that one was listening today to the ghosts of those people who opposed that agreement on behalf of the Liberal Party and Country Party in that era.  Senator Webster  has repeated all the old cliches and platitudes of that period. What he and the Opposition parties clearly do not appreciate is that there are now, some 25 years after the introduction of the original legislation which was carried on, to some extent, by the Menzies and subsequent Administrations, more people wanting public housing than ever before in our history. Surveys that have been conducted both by public housing authorities and by this Government have shown very conclusively that we have a responsibility, as  Senator Little  said, to give specific Commonwealth assistance in order to overcome the very acute shortage of public housing that exists. 
What is our point of emphasis? The emphasis is to give opportunities for 0W income groups - those earning about $86 a week and less - to have access to public funds which will be provided by the Commonwealth to the States so that these people will be able to live in a reasonable home in a reasonable area and pay reasonable rent. The Bill establishes some new incentives. It seeks also for the first time to provide accommodation for single persons. Hitherto, persons in this category have been seriously discriminated against. We propose to take into consideration people who are not able to accumulate sufficient funds and resources with which privately to provide for their needs and who therefore need assistance from public authorities. 
It is also desirable - this is provided for in the legislation - to extend the provisions of the Bill to aged and invalid persons. No one could suggest that these people would ever have the wherewithal or the means with which to acquire a home through the private sector or to purchase a home from the public housing authorities.  Senator Webster  usually has a slap at the Ministers who are involved in matters which we are discussing. He clearly does not understand the philosophical approach of the Government or of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  On his accession to office the Minister made numerous statements in which he said that he felt public housing authorities had a responsibility to provide housing for young married couples.  Senator Little  referred to this matter. But when the Minister had an opportunity to look at the surveys which showed that there Was an acute shortage of housing for the low income groups, he had to forego his personal views about public housing authorities providing facilities for young married couples. Whilst he and the Labor Government accepted the principle that young married couples should be provided for in the new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, there was a greater need to provide accommodation for the low income groups with families and the other persons to whom I have referred. 
What the Government is seeking to do is really to look after the low income groups, the little people.  Senator Webster  always wants to talk about the little people - this great socialist monster that he seems to paint. He lives in this dream time that he is experiencing. The position is quite the reverse to what he has stated it to be. It is the Labor Government's expressed intention in this legislation to provide for the low income groups, those who have not got the means with which to go to the private sector to solve their housing or accommodation problems. That is contrary to what has been stated by  Senator Webster  and by some of his colleagues in the other place. The previous Government must accept some of the responsibility - and as a supporter of the previous Government,  Senator Webster  must accept some of the responsibility - for the fact that during the last 23 years the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government deliberately - I accuse it of having done this deliberately - reduced the amount of funds available to the public housing authorities in the States; it allowed their financial position to decline almost to the point of withering on the vine. Of course, this is what we said when we debated the renewal of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement a year or so ago. 
So it is just not true for Opposition speakers to suggest that it is not our intent and philosophical objective to provide greater sums of money to meet the greater need for public housing. Of course, what the legislation also does is seek to provide money to the State housing authorities at a reduced rate of interest for the express purpose of reducing rents for those people who are not able  to  provide their accommodation from their own means and who have to resort to the State public housing authorities. I can assure honourable senators opposite, who take delight in trying to suggest that the legislation will be unpopular, that the officials of the public housing authorities in the various States are jubilant at this new Government's approach to public housing because they see an opportunity to meet the accommodation needs of people. 
One can imagine the forlorn job with which the housing commission officers had to contend every day of their lives. The Members in the State parliamentary sphere, no matter to what political party they belonged, had people lining up outside their rooms and in the parliamentary chambers pleading for Lousing commission accommodation. This happens in New South Wales and probably in the other States. So it begs the question to hear honourable senators opposite suggesting that we are not concerned about the problems of the little people. I wish to heaven that the Opposition parties in Victoria would hurry up and solve their pre-selection blues, and then we would have less soap box oratory and more detailed examination of the Government's legislative program. We are not interested in the contest; we are interested in the legislative processes of this place. 
The proposals to increase the percentage of houses that may be sold by public housing authorities from 30 per cent to 50 per ecn? is an attempt by  Senator Rae  to extend the concession that the Commonwealth Minister for Housing made to meet the Tasmanian situation. The emphasis in that State was on providing great numbers of housing commission homes for sale, but the Government took the broader view and said: 'We are prepared to give you a period of time to scale that down so that they will ultimately bring every State into harmony with the Government's philosophical position'. 

 Senator Rae clearly does not understand the reason why the Government is taking these steps. They are based on the experiences, particularly in the more developed States of New South Wales and Victoria. What has happened is that Commonwealth funds which were given to the States for the purpose of public housing 25 years ago - I am speaking of my own experience in New South Wales, and I understand that the same principle applies in Victoria - were used by the housing commission to buy blocks of land for the purpose of providing housing commission homes. Those blocks were purchased at that period at prices which ranged from about $100 a block. Today we have to pay $10,000, $12,000 or $14,000 for a block of land. 
There has been this inverted situation in New South Wales where the State Government, rightly or wrongly, has been prepared to sell off most of the land, accommodation and homes in the housing commission areas to those who wish to buy them. But what has happened in many cases is that, the moment the sales have been effected to the persons who formerly rented those homes, those persons in so many areas, particularly in the areas closer to the city proper, have hawked those homes around to developers. As a result of land use changes those houses have been pulled down and blocks of flats have been erected upon the land. It is on the basis of that experience that the housing authorities in New South Wales have said: 'If we have to spend public funds to provide land and accommodation it is proper that these allotments should remain in the hands of public authorities.' Notwithstanding the need to retain these public lands for future redevelopment if necessary, held in the ownership of a public authority, the Government has said that there is a case as suggested by the 2 previous speakers in this debate for a number of people to have the right to acquire their homes. We do not deny that, so we have agreed to submit to State Housing Ministers that they may sell up to 30 per cent of the homes built with money provided under the Housing Agreement. 
 That is right, but only for a couple of years, to overcome a problem. You accused us of adopting a dogmatic attitude and of imposing conditions upon the State Ministers. Have you had an opportunity to read the minutes of the conferences between the various Ministers? If the honourable senator reads them he. must surely see that  Mr Les  Johnson, the Minister for Housing, has spent many wearying hours trying to convince the State housing commissioners and Ministers of the need for them to have a proper outlook and to plan future land use. In certain circumstances the Minister has had to say: That is the Government's policy.' After all, Federal funds are involved. We welcome the understanding attitude adopted by  Senator Little,  that the Government is concerned that more people now want public housing than hitherto. 
We are concerned to retain ownership of land for those people who want to rent public housing. At the end of the economic life of the houses the public authority will have the right - in 50 to 60 years time when the housing has lost its value and is no longer an economically viable proposition - to dispose of that housing. People who know anything about the growth rate in the major capital cities will appreciate the need to retain public ownership of the land. In Sydney all the planning authorities accept the view that Sydney's population will double in our lifetime so that every publicly owned block of land currently held will come up for rezoning. Surely it is not denied that that land will have a greater value in the years that lie ahead. Honourable senators opposite do not seem to understand these principles. 
Inevitably the population will increase in the major cities where most of the public housing exists, even though as a result of the Government's decentralisation proposals the growth rate will be slowed down. The Housing Agreement represents a very significant step towards overcoming the grave social problem in the area of accommodation. We believe that we have a mandate for this action. We do not run away from the fact that by our participation we intend to overcome the backlog in public housing as quickly as possible. That is what we are seeking to do. We are making more money available and at a lower rate of interest. We will ensure that the national estate will be retained by public housing authorities in the States so that when the inevitable rezoning takes place the public sector will get the benefit. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate know that the Department of Civil Aviation has just announced that the French Government has warned all aircraft to keep clear of the French nuclear test zone in the Pacific region from 5.30 a.m. on 2 June 1973 to 7.30 a.m. on  3 
June 1973? Will the Minister agree that this may indicate that a nuclear explosion could take place tomorrow? What steps can the Government take to protest against this breach of ethics by France in defiance of the International Court of Justice deliberations and world public opinion? 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer make available to the Senate the names of companies and the amount of funds Invested by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund in 'loans prescribed under Trustee legislation' and 'Mortgages of Land' as shown on page 21 of the 1970-71 Report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. 

 Senator BISHOP -  The  Chairman,  Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board, which has the statutory responsibility for the investment of the Fund, has provided the following Information: 
The total investments of $134,304,724 referred to in the Board's Annual Report for 1970-71 (and 1971-72) included $47,141,391 as 'loans prescribed under Trustee legislation' which represent loans to semi-governmental and other statutory authorities, mainly government guaranteed. The borrowers and amounts are listed on page 72 of the Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure for 1970-71. The distribution of these investments together with other trustee and local government investments is included in Table 2 on page 32 of the Board's Report for that year. 
The investments of $33,827,100 in 'Mortgage of Land' as at 30 June 1971 were secured by long term mortgages of land and buildings, being placed with companies and organisations spread over a wide range of industry. The various types of property and the industries of the borrowers are shown in Table 3 on page 33 of the Report for 1970-71. those for 1971-72 being shown in a similar table in the 1971-72 Report. 
As to the details of these investments, which are privately negotiated, the Board does not publish this information, the usual banker-client relationship being maintained. 
The  Chairman  of the Board has also provided additional information arising from the question without notice on 11 April 1973, addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relating to investment by the Board in first mortgages with borrowers in the property and construction industry. He confirms that the reports of the Board have shown an increasing volume of investment in long term mortgages on land and buildings over recent years. This policy has been followed to diversify investments within the range of powers available to the Board and to improve the earning rate of the Fund. Indeed as at 30 June 1972 the average earning rate of 6.55 per cent on all investments has only been achieved by a return of 8.29 per cent obtained on first mortgages. Such investments are on a long term basis limited to a proportion of total valuation and are not made for short term property dealings of a speculative nature, which appears to be indicated by the question. 
The Board already invests extensively in loans for local and semi-governmental bodies; as at 30 June 1972, the time of the last Report when all arrangements were dealt with by the previous Government, these loans represented some 46 per cent of total investment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Minister has suggested that there is a need for liberalising State libel laws in the hope that there will be a more open discussion of all public affairs? Is the Minister aware that last evening  Sir Frank  Packer, a prominent person in the television industry, was involved in a successful move to censure comments by the Prime Minister on the program 'A Current Affair'. What steps can be taken to ensure that censorship of television programs is not left in the hands of one man as this surely would nullify the attempts by the Minister to have a freer exchange of news and comments? 
The Government regards this Bill as one of the most important Bills to come before the Parliament because since the end of the last war local government has been endeavouring to convince the Commonwealth of the need for financial assistance. As one who attended about 15 local government conferences during the 1960s and the 1970s, I can assure  Senator Cotton  that he is not speaking for local government, either in New South Wales or in the other States, because when  Mr Whitlam  outlined his policy considerations at local government conferences during the past 3 years in particular he was accorded a tremendous ovation. He has accepted the principle which has been put forward by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for Federal Aid since the end of the war. Such submissions have been consistently and contemptuously rejected by various Liberal-Country Party Administrations over the years. 
This is an historic piece of legislation for the simple reason that for the first time ever local government will have access to Federal funds. Local government had its origins in the early days of the colony. It received some financial assistance from the State governments in early times. But until it became apparent that local government could not carry out its obligations it was never suggested that there was a need for the Commonwealth to become part of the third arm of government, that in fact local government should have access to Commonwealth funds in the same way as the claimant States have been able to have, access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Bill represents an endeavour on the part of the Government to redress the deficiencies of nearly 50 years of neglect of local government activities. If we have any regard for the problems that have faced people living in local government areas, surely there must be a recognition that, using only money received as property tax, local government has not been able to carry out its obligations to provide public facilities for the people within its regions. So the purpose of the Bill is to involve the Commonwealth in the whole area of local government. This means that this legislation is an historic departure from the past Commonwealth indifference. For the first time the Commonwealth will make available on the basis of needs such funds as will enable local government to augment its revenue or rates in order to carry out a more effective, part of its responsibility. 
We have to look at why this position came about. The Commonwealth had to be persuaded some years back to enter the field of education. Earlier, when it was suggested that the Commonwealth should become. involve. in education, the tendency of the Commonwealth Government was to say that it was a matter for the States. I am sure that honourable senators will appreciate that this attitude changed as it became apparent that education could not play its part in the development of our nation if it had to rely solely upon State funds. So we have seen a gradual change over the years to the point where the Commonwealth Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  announced recently that in the next Budget $660m - a massive sum - will be made available for distribution to the States. That is a great change from the previous indifference displayed in the early 1950s when the Commonwealth was asked to become involved' in the whole area of education. This Bill repre sents an endeavour on our part to extend the principle into the area of local government.  I  just cannot accept the rantings of  Senator Cotton.  That is the only way I can describe what he said. Having been involved in the sphere of local government, I can say that there has been an evolution in thinking. For example, it was not until 4 years ago that we could get the various State Ministers for local government at a meeting in Launceston, finally to agree to make a direct application to the Commonwealth for Federal assistance. Hitherto, because of the various situations that existed in different States and because the major problems existed in the major States, there was a reluctance on the part of Ministers for local government from some of the smaller States to become part of this move to request Federal assistance. So a turning point was reached where they were convinced that local government could no longer be left to stand on its own financial legs. Therefore, a direct submission was made to the Commonwealth. The last 2 Prime Ministers of the previous Administration,  Mr Gorton  and  Mr McMahon,  rejected the submissions that were made in this area. 
The proposal of the Grants Commission is to extend to local government bodies the principle that has been used effectively over the years to enable the smaller States to equalise their public works responsibilities. I do not think that any honourable senator would suggest that that has not been a worthwhile proposition. But where the Government and the Opposition disagree is that we see this in the context of the Australian Government's intended involvement in the whole urban affairs picture. Our basic proposition is that the Austraiian Government is no longer prepared to stand aloof from the problems of life in the cities or the rural towns. Those of us who have been involved in local government know only too well that we cannot expect State governments to provide funds for local government. They have been asked to do so time and time again. 
We all know the pressures that have been put on the States to provide funds. Of course, the States are not able even to carry out their own public works responsibilities  so there is no possibility of their being able to assist in this direction. It is true, as  Senator Cotton  said, that some years ago the New South Wales Government established the New South 
Wales Grants Commission. I have met the Grants Commission on a number of occasions and I know that it has done very useful work in assessing the needs of local government. The New South Wales Government currently makes available $6m for local government. It has a full-time staff to go around to various local government areas in New South Wales. There are about 250 local government bodies, the needs and responsibilities of which have to be assessed. The New South Wales Government then has to carve up the $6m cake. That amount of money is small when one considers that councils in the outer suburbs of Sydney, with something like 150,000 to 200,000 people living within their boundaries, generaly receive about $30,000 to $40,000. No one suggests that that sort of money that comes from the resources of the State government can possibly meet the needs of our modern communities. The Commonwealth, concerned as it is with the quality of life in urban areas and regional centres, recognises that it has to break new ground. 

 Senator Cotton made some comments about the States being bypassed in the proposed arrangement. We must accept that the States have become very rigid in their attitudes and particularly in their attitude to local government. In this a country of 13 million people there are 950-odd local government bodies, the boundaries of which were established 70, 80, 90 and 100 years ago. Surely there is a case for rationalisation of resources. I know that governments hesitate to enter this area of rationalising resources and to create stronger and more viable local government bodies, but I challenge  Senator Cotton  to say that the larger the council, the less efficient is the organisation. It has certainly been the experience in New South Wales, and I am told that other States have had the same experience, that the larger the council the more efficient it is and the more resources it has. 
I would say that when I compare its public works responsibilities with those of other urban government bodies. I would say that, in terms of its total responsibility, it is recognised in local government circles throughout Australia as being one of the best and most efficient organisa tions. Of course, that is a matter of political judgment. We have found in the 1970s that the great majority of councils in Australia do not have town planners on their staffs because they lack the resources properly to plan their areas. Of course, the phenomenon we must recognise as having occurred in recent years has been the upsurge of community interest in local government matters, in the quality of life, in environmental matters, in rezoning, in high density developments and so on. Many of the problems flow from the lack of resources of local government, which, relying as it does almost entirely upon property tax as its source of revenue, has been pressed to provide a greater number of facilities from smaller and smaller proportions of total public funds. 
There is obviously a tremendous need for co-ordination and development of administrative programs in our urban areas as a whole. When we study administrative and development programs in our urban areas we have to be concerned with a great variety of functions such as the collection of taxes, the provision of roads and of transportation, health and welfare services. These days many of these matters come within the orbit of local government. Of course, the purpose of the Grants Commission will be to help the less developed local government authorities to apply the principle that has been tried and proven a viable proposition over the years in State and local governments generally throughout Australia. What has been suggested by the Opposition is that we will be setting up some highly bureaucratised organisation. It is precisely because it wants to avoid this development that the Government accepted certain amendments in the other place to provide that regional councils would have the right to make submissions to the Grants Commission and that in certain circumstances that same facility and privilege would be afforded to a selected number of local government areas. Yet the Government is accused of wanting to set up some sort of heavy bureaucracy, some centralised apparatus and something that will separate local State and Commonwealth governments. The Government's concept, of course, is of a co-operative effort between Commonwealth, State and local governments. 

 Senator Cotton stressed that there were 950 local government bodies in Australia. How does he suggest that each one of those bodies should have access to the Grants Commission without applications being processed on the basis of need? Honourable senators opposite are contradicting themselves. Of course, the purpose of the legislation is to prevent the development of a heavy bureaucracy, to try to convince local authorities to come together as a region, to consider their problems as a region, to think in terms of regional development and consequently to make applications as a region to the Grants Commission. For instance, I would imagine that in my own State one could not isolate the various areas in the northern part of Sydney where there are about 7 local government authorities. Surely no one could disagree that what happens at Mosman would have some effect on the Lane Cove Municipal Council, or that what happens at Manly would have some effect on the Warringah Shire Council, or that what happens at Kuringai would have some relationship to what happens at Hornsby. The Government's proposition is that all these councils which might have specific problems - whether it be an expressway or sewerage problem or one related to some improved traffic movement or the provision of a local amenity involving as the purchase of a large open space for the benefit of the people within that region - should come together and make an application to the Grants Commission. 
 I am not suggesting that they be amalgamated but that they work together as a region in order to plan for the needs of the community within that region. If it finally leads to greater co-ordination of effort it is a step in the right direction. Quite clearly of course the Opposition sees this as some terrible weapon of amalgamation, of getting away from the little councils and the little people and so on. I have heard these arguments produced so many times by some of the conservatives at local government conferences. I well recall some of the Liberal members of Parliament from my own area talking about the need to break big councils into smaller local government bodies and yet one of the last things that  Mr Morton,  the former Minister for Local Government in New South Wales did, as a result of his experience, having espoused this principle of smaller councils over the years was to establish a boundaries commission in New South Wales with a view to rationalising local government boundaries so that local government could become a more vital and effective part of the trinity of government in Australia.  Mr Ferris,  a former  president  of the Local Government Association in New South Wales was reported recently as having said in Tamworth: 
Local government, to maintain its strength, had a lot to do to improve its structure and operations. It had no time to lose, otherwise its powers would diminish and be progressively handed over to other bodies. 
It is not this Government's intention to whittle away the powers of local government. In fact, we would want to extend the powers of local government being, as it is, much closer to the people and much more responsive to their needs. The report continued: 
Councillor Ferris said local government must be prepared to change with times and accept that ideas of 20, 10 or even 5 years ago may not be applicable in solving current problems and those of the immediate future. 
We cannot remain static if  we  are to fulfil our obligations. In other words we must be with it and think ahead and not back in building a better local government to serve those who will follow us,' he said. 
There is much to do to update local government, and people who serve must give more of their time to the broader and major issues, . . .' Councillor Ferris said. 
This of course is what this legislation seeks to do - to provide what I hope will be sufficient funds. I am aware of what  Senator Carrick  has been saying in this Senate over the last few weeks - that there is too much money being spent in the public sector and that there ought to be a curtailment of public expenditure. I wonder whether he will say in respect of this Bill that in fact no money should be available to local government. We on the Government side stress the need for greater expenditure in these areas in order to improve the quality of life in our urban regions, and the Grants Commission, of course, possesses just that facility. It will act as a co-ordinator. It will seek out the needs of local government and examine their propositions on a regional basis and if there are certain cases where local government, as a single entity, can show that it is a region in its own right, then the Minister for Urban and Regional Development under certain circumstances will have the opportunity to consider the application from that particular council. 
It must be emphasised that the intention of the Australian Government in bringing in this legislation basically is to give local government the opportunity to communicate and to express its needs on fiscal needs at the level of the Australian Government. At the 6 local government conferences throughout Australia, local government consistently has put that point of view to the State governments and the State governments have wrung their hands and said: 'We do not have the money to provide our own requirements, least of all to make it available to local government'. So, it was inevitable that they should come to the main tax gathering source - the Commonwealth - with a view to trying to solve their problem. This Government of course is in the invidious position of having to run the gauntlet of the Opposition with its legislation on 2 occasions. Amendments are moved to Bills in the House of Representatives, as they were in this case. The Government accepted the amendments and then, when the Bill came over here, the Opposition had a second bite of the cherry. Maybe that is considered good tactics. 
But to me this seems unfair on the part of those who want to amend Government legislation.  Senator Drake-Brockman  was a member of a government for a great number of years. It was his Government which flatly refused on every occasion to make any financial assistance available to local government. It is only in the last 6 months or so that the honourable senator's leader has become a bit trendy and decided to try to find some new interest and to establish some new national outlook. He has spoken about the need for the Opposition to involve itself in national matters and urban affairs. But I suggest that he never put that point of view forward and neither did the honourable senator when the Opposition had the financial ability to accede to the requests of local government. 
The Grants Commission will be estimated to consider the needs of local government both on a regional and an individual basis. This Bill for the establishment of the new Grants Commission contains clause 17, which is a requirement for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to approve regional organisations from among local governing bodies. This is a general executive act. This applies in practically all cases which can be envisaged at the present time. Under clause 17 a regional organisation may be approved by regulation in the case where the local government body is the only local government body established in the region. 
An example of this is Brisbane. Where there are special reasons, any other local government bodies will receive consideration. We have to have this exception to the general rule because there are functioning local government bodies capable of acting on behalf of a region. The Bill therefore provides for parliamentary scrutiny. 
Yes. 
There is a discretionary power vested in the Minister. 
I cannot say what the Minister's view would be. Under the Bill he has a discretionary power to recognise that authority as a regional authority. Of course, that has certainly happened in New South Wales. There are about 9 regional bodies already functioning throughout the rural areas. There are many regions within the Sydney metropolitan area. For example, for some years I was  chairman  of the St George and Sutherland Shire Assembly, which was made up of councils in the Sutherland and St George areas. We concerned ourselves with such things as the development of Botany Bay by the New South Wales Government and with extensions to the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport because that affected the region. However, it seems to me 'that it is still a functioning body and under the terms of this Bill it would be a regional authority. 
Yes, water pollution of the George's River and a whole variety of matters which could not be dealt with by a single authority. Of course, if a strong enough case were made out that in that region there was a need for specific funds to acquire an open space area - as there is in that region to which I am referring - that group of councils could apply to the Grants Commission for special consideration and special funds. 
This is breaking new ground. This is what has to be seen. We are not suggesting and I do not think any Minister or the Prime. Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who spoke at length on this matter in the House of Representatives, has suggested that the Grants Commission will be the panacea of the financial problems of local government. It has already been announced that the Commonwealth Government has granted local government access to the Loan Council. A ludicrous position existed for a long time whereby every local government body in New South Wales - the situation varied from State to State - regardless of size was limited to borrowing $200,000 in loan moneys. The limit was subsequently increased to $300,000. It is currently $400,000. Councils of areas of 1.4 square miles were able to get the same amount of loan moneys as council of arias of 140 or 150 square miles. That is the absurdity of the position that exists in the Commonwealth, State and local government area of finance and operations. The Government has now said that it will not only establish machinery to enable councils to make a case based on need to the Grants Commission but also give local government ready access as individual councils to the Australian Loan Council. In this way the sort of money that has been spent in recent years on trying to solve education problems will become available, 1 hope, in sufficient amounts from the Commonwealth Government to make a very big change in the whole area of local government. 
The real argument seems to revolve around the way in which regional organisations are approved. That seems to be what  Senator Cotton  is concerned about. He wants to put the State governments in a position where they are the clearing houses. Quite frankly, only 2 of the 6 States have a Grants Commission organisation operating and they are not able effectively to handle the spate of applications received. So even if we were to agree to the States becoming an integral part of this new operation we would still have the problem of having to set up organisations in the States to carry out this function. We believe that the Bill does provide safeguards in that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is required to consult with the appropriate Minister of the State concerned before giving his approval to a regional organisation. The Minister for Urban and 
Regional Development has been able to effect a working relationship with the respective Premiers and Local Government Ministers in Victoria and New South Wales on the AlburyWodonga project. In view of that, I do not envisage any particular problem developing in this respect. 
I think that any problem there is exists in the minds of Opposition senators rather than in reality. I do not think that we could succeed in our endeavours to build the sorts of new cities envisaged and in rectifying the deficiencies that exist in our cities at present if we do not see this measure as being part of some co-operative effort and if we do not accept the challenge of putting local government in the forefront of Commonwealth responsibility, as was done by the Commonwealth in the area of education. The Grants Commission Bill is a very important piece of legislation. For the first time since Federation the Commonwealth is to make funds available to local government bodies to enable them to reach a minimum standard of development. 
I do not think Opposition senators would seriously challenge me if I were to say that a great disparity exists in our capital cities in particular between local government areas, especially in the regional areas on the outskirts of the major cities. That is where the main problems exist. Streets are unsealed, drainage systems are inadequate, amenities are non-existent, rates are high, sewerage is lacking and the road systems are insufficient to carry the traffic on them. In recent times metropolitan councils on the northern side of Sydney have taken the extraordinary but desirable step of stopping the movement of traffic along certain streets to try to protect the environment of the local residents. Matters of this nature are not the responsibility of the local councils. The State Government agencies have been unable to provide the necessary funds to ensure the ready movement of vehicles. 
No honourable senator could possibly deny that there is a great demand for funds in the local government area. No honourable senator could disagree with me when I say that the public facilities provided by the local government councils on the perimeter of our major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne, leave much to be desired. But local government authorities, relying almost entirely upon rates as their source of income, are not able to meet the needs of the people who live within their region. Therefore it becomes the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government which, after all, has pioneered a migration program which in the post war years has brought to our shores more than 3 million people, 73 per cent of whom have settled in the major cities, particularly in the new outer suburbs in Sydney, Melbourne and other capital cities. So in part, or perhaps entirely, the Commonwealth is responsible for the present state of affairs. It is right that the Commonwealth should accept the responsibility of trying to redress the years of neglect and to subject the local government authorities and their responsibilities to some levelling process so that the people who live in those regions will enjoy during their lifetime the sorts of facilities that perhaps exist in developed parts of the Sydney and Melbourne metropolitan areas. It will be the responsibility of the Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Senator Willesee)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to consider the applications for funds as they come in from the various local government authorities. If it is intended to hamstring this legislation by moving amendments to give the Commonwealth sole responsibility in this area, clearly the whole system will clog up and break down. I am sure that is not the aim of honourable senators opposite. I am sure they realise, as we do, that the time is long overdue for local government authorities to be recognised as the effective third arm of government. It should not be put at the end of the queue but should work in partnership with the other 2 arms of government. That has been our policy. It has been the policy of local government authorities. It is now the policy of the Government. I am sure it is a policy with which the people of Australia agree. I commend the Bill for the support of the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Treasurer see the television Program 
This Day Tonight', on 26 March 1973, in which it was suggested that major development companies have been large-scale borrowers of funds to the detriment of individual home-owners from the permanent building societies operating in New South Wales. 
Have the funds of the Superannuation Board been used by large land development or insurance companies. 
Does the Minister recall the statements made by the Auditor-General on page 33 of his Report for the year 1971-72 which states 'Reference was made in my previous Reports to the position whereby annual financial Statements of the Superannuation Fund since 1967-68 have disclosed unsatisfactory features which have resulted in the inability of the Superannuation Board to present statements in an acceptable form for Audit examination', and referred by  Senator Gietzelt  to the previous Treasurer in 1972. 
As this unsatisfactory position has existed now for six year, will the Treasurer take steps to have made available to the Senate the names of all persons, companies or groups who have borrowed the $347m shown in the latest Auditor-General's Report over the period 1962 to 1972, so that an examination can be made to see who has benefitted from the use of loans and mortgages by decisions of the Superannuation Board. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Yes. However, it should be pointed out that the Auditor-General was not referring to investments from the Superannuation Fund; he was drawing attention to certain adjustments required in the accounts, as explained in Paragraphs 48 to 52 of the Superannuation Board's 47th Annual Report for 1968-69 and referred to in its subsequent reports to the Parliament. 
Since the Auditor-General's Report for 1971-72, the financial statements for the year 1968-69 have been certified; I am informed that the preparation of statements for subsequent years, to meet the queries raised by the Auditor-General, is well advanced. 
and (4) The amount of$347m referred to is presumably derived from the information contained in the Auditor-General's report about investments in loans prescribed under trustee legislation' and 'mortgages on land', the figures for these being: 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Has the Minister established that the Commonwealth is paying $34m per annum for rented premises in the capital cities, principally Sydney and Melbourne. 
What companies or groups of companies enjoy this financial arrangement with the Commonwealth. 
Is the Minister aware of reports which claim that the Commonwealth in past years signed leases with the owners of such rented premises for periods up to 6 months prior to Government Departments moving in, thereby wasting considerable amounts of public funds. 
Will the Government inquire into all the circumstances of properties leased and rented by the Commonwealth and report to the Parliament the names, places and rental paid to property developers and companies. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Minister for Services and Property has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Government pays an annual rental of approximately $27m for the lease of office accommodation in the capital cities of which some $8. 5m is paid in Sydney and some $9m in Melbourne. 
A list of lessor companies is as follows: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In answer to a question recently he assured the Senate that the Government would continue to take steps to protect the interests of consumers. I have in my possession a packet of razor blades purchased from a chain store. The cardboard backing sheet is marked 'Made in Great Britain' in large lettering, while the packet containing the blades is marked 'Made in Belgium' in very small lettering. Will the Minister advise the Senate what steps the Government can take to protect the consumer from misleading marketing of imported goods? 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerning the 2 questions asked of him by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  about the housing of Ministers. Is the Leader of the Government aware that it was the policy of the previous Government to make accommodation available to all Ministers? Does he know that all new Ministers are offered rented premises on the basis of the policy of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government? Is he aware that a number of former Ministers -are still renting flats made available to them during recent years? Does he know that included in the list of Ministers of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government renting flats are the Honourable Les Bury, who lost his position in the Gorton Ministry in 1971, and the Honourable R. Holten, who ceased to hold ministerial office following the defeat of the former Government in 1972? Is this not another example of the Senate tail wagging the Liberal-Country Party dog? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of glaring inequities in many hire purchase agreements? Has he seen a report detailing several serious examples of unfair and deceptive consumer credit practices? Does the Government propose to take steps to ensure that such practices are checked and that the consumers are afforded full protection on all occasions? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the serious allegations about corruption, crime and Mafia influence in the club industry in New South Wales were brought to the attention of the New South Wales Police Department by the Commonwealth Police in 1972? In view of the public interest in this matter, will the Minister agree to table these documents in the Senate or, alternatively, to make the reports available to the appropriate Senate committee which is headed, at the moment, by  Senator McAuliffe? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that some 34 fires and some deaths have occurred in Victoria this year as a result of the use of electric blankets? Will the Minister institute inquiries generally to determine whether these tragedies arose from faulty manufacture, false advertising or inflammable blankets and whether any Federal Government assistance has been available in the manufacturing of the appliances? What steps can the Government take to protect the interests of the consumer who buys the appliance believing it to be safe and sound in manufacture at all times? 
Is the Leader of the Government aware that the people of Port Kembla are seriously perturbed at the continuing pollution problem in that area? Does the Minister know that citizens and trade unionists are now threatening to take direct action to force Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd to institute controls to reduce pollution? Is it a fact that Port Kembla is the most polluted town in Australia and that the pollution is fast reaching the dangerous levels existing in the United States? As the New South Wales Government has failed to take any effective action to control pollution will the Minister, as the Minister for Customs and Excise, consider the matter or, alternatively, discuss the matter with the Minister for Overseas Trade to consider making it a condition of approving steel exports that the company eradicate pollution at its steelworks at Port Kembla? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer and it follows the question asked of him earlier by  Senator Withers.  Is the Minister aware that many public and private companies are purchasing homes for executives and allowing capital outlay, rates and taxes as charges against general costs to the company; extensively using expense accounts as entertainment charges to the company; allowing executives to charge education of their children at wealthy private schools as a cost to the company; allowing interstate and international trips by company officials as expenditure items to the company's costs; and generally loading a large amount of nonbusiness activity as a cost to their enterprise? Will the Government consider appointing a Coombs-like task force to examine whether illegitimate claims are included as expenses by companies lodging their tax returns? 
Probably more words have been spoken in the Senate in recent years about the abolition of the death penalty than have been uttered on many other questions. I rise to support the motion and oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Jessop  and to challenge some of the injudicious statements made by some honourable senators who are clinging to the amendment as the last issue in this long debate to express opposition to the enlightened view that the death penalty should be abolished generally in Australia. In saying that I do not cast any aspersions upon those honourable senators who have, supported the amendment. Some of them clearly hold the general view that hijacking is a crime which is beyond the norm so far as the death penalty is concerned. I think those honourable senators who have expressed the view that this crime is different from others which would excite the community and involve the action of the State in taking the life &gt;of the person concerned, crimes for which the death penalty previously applied, are those who largely have adopted the view in all the debates on this subject in this place over the years - they go back many years - that the death penalty should be retained for all capital crimes. 
I think that  Senator Wright  has to accept some criticism from the Government side because he endeavoured to suggest that those of us who take the enlightened view do so because it happens to be the policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
I challenge that assertion. We already have examined our consciences in respect to the death penalty. Whether or not we are members of the Australian Labor Party we still would take the view that the State has no authority to take the life of another individual. I stand by that view. I held it as a young man before I became interested in politics. My membership of the Australian Labor Party has not influenced my attitude on this question in any way. I think I can say on behalf of all my colleagues that none of us is under duress. None of us feels obliged to vote against this amendment merely because we are members of the Government Party. We hold the view that each man can speak for himself. All of my colleagues believe that this is a conscience vote on a matter which we had determined when we were outside the Australian Labor Party. We are interested in humanitarian questions also. I remind members of the Opposition that humanitarian attitudes do not repose only in those sitting on the Opposition benches. In point of fact we are concerned about people and the sanctity of human life. We are concerned about understanding human nature. We are concerned about trying to apply law to a number of areas of capital crimes for which hitherto society has seen fit to impose the penalty of the taking of life when a life has been lost as a result of the activity of an individual. 
I do not think it is possible for us to establish a yardstick, to say that a hijack is a more serious crime than kidnapping, treason or murder. Perhaps in a hijack more people would be involved than in the other crimes. However, I can appreciate that many people would say that a current incident in South Australia, if it becomes a tragedy, is in fact a crime even more difficult to understand than a hijack. We have taken the view that experience in all countries of the world has shown that the imposition of the death penalty has in no way acted as a deterrent to these terrible and horrible crimes. Let us consider a recent international incident, the murders at the Athens airport, and the futility of the acts. The death penalty does apply in Greece; yet the people involved in the murders had a cause and took action - which none of us could condone but all would condemn - in a country in which an autocratic government was imposing its will upon the people. These crimes were committed in a country in which the perpetrators knew they would pay a very stiff penalty for their actions; yet the penalty did not act as a deterrent. 
I think this is what has been said by so many honourable senators from all sides of the House in the debates that have occurred on this subject in the couple of years that I have been a member of this chamber. I have heard honourable senators say that no matter how horrible some crimes were the death penalty was not a deterrent.  Senator Webster,  of course, reacted rather strongly to my interjection about Lieutenant Calley. I do not think that one can take the view that because one is at war one loses one's respect for the sanctity of human life. If a person acts in the way Lieutenant Calley did, according to the American courts of law, then clearly he is as sick and as much in need of the protection of society as a person who is involved in a kidnapping or a hijacking. Some honourable senators tend to put such an action into  a  different category and fail to recognise that many of these crimes have been committed. During the debate in the last few days some honourable senators have suggested that hijacking is something different. I put to honourable senators that we must adopt the attitude that in a modern community capital punishment is no longer an acceptable deterrent and that we ought to consider the causes for these people's actions rather than attempt to deal with the effect. That statement does not indicate in any way that we do not recognise that tremendous problems exist and that terrible crimes are committed by great numbers of people. But I hope that the debate on the death penalty is tonight in its death throes, that this debate will sound its death knell and the attitude of the Parliament to this question will be resolved. 
I agree with  Senator Wright  that this is the place where decisions on behalf of the community are being taken. I am sure that public opinion has reached the stage at which it does accept the principle that we need a more enlightened attitude, a more humanitarian attitude, and sufficient evidence has been given by people more able than I to show that in other countries - and perhaps in our country - people were not guilty of the crimes for which they paid the supreme penalty. Some honourable senators have suggested in this debate that the death penalty should be applied for the crime of treason. Having established an attitude here in the Senate, we have now moved to the question of hijacking. Hijacking, of course, is a popular method by which some people can gain notoriety or express their belief in a cause. After all, this has cut right across the political spectrum. Members of the Croatian community were responsible for highjacking an aircraft in Sweden either last year or the year before. We do not condone this attitude; we condemn this sort of violence which involves innocent people. But because people have been put to death for their involvement in this sort of crime in other countries, does not necessarily mean that we should apply that principle here. 
Ours is an advanced country which is beginning to develop a better attitude to society and its problems and so we should be abreast of current movements and taking a step forward by abolishing completely the death penalty. I think  Senator Wright  ought to re-examine what he said when he attempted to belie the motivation of those of us on the Government benches. He said he accepted the bona fides of honourable senators on this side of the House; he was speaking, I think, of  Senator Poyser  when he said that he cast no reflection upon him. Therefore  Senator Wright  should cast no reflection at all upon any Government supporter as a result of his attitude on this difficult question but should accept the principle that our vote on this question is a conscience vote - but a conscience vote determined years ago when we joined the Australian Labor Party and examined the issues and considered the whole problem of society's approach to criminal offences and determined our total opposition to capital punishment. 
The honourable senator should see that we appreciate the action of those members of the Opposition who have, we believe, adopted an enlightened attitude, who have in conscience decided to vote for or against the various amendments that have been submitted for debate in this place. A political decision arises from a person's deciding to cast his vote after he has examined his conscience. The only point of difference we have with the members of the Opposition is that they want to deny us that right. They want the right to determine their attitude to an amendment or a resolution but to deny members of the Government precisely that right because they believe that we in voting as a group are denying the principle of conscience. I want to put the record straight and say on behalf of many of my colleagues that we have reached this conclusion on our understanding of the problem and not because it happens to be a rule of the constitution of the Party to which we belong. We would hope that the same openness and tolerance would be exercised by a majority of members of the Senate so that we will in fact take the very important step of abolishing, at least in the Federal jurisdiction, the death penalty for capital crimes in this country. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What progress has the Government made in its endeavours to have local government officially represented at the Constitutional Convention to be held next week in Sydney? If the progress has been successful, will the Federal Government be prepared to make Federal funds available to enable local government bodies from all States to be represented at the Convention and in all the Convention deliberations? 
 Members of the Government Party derive a great deal of pleasure from being associated with the most progressive Budget presented to the Australian Parliament in the last 24 years. It represents but an instalment in the long range programming of the new Government, lt has been interesting to listen to speakers presenting the Opposition point of view, to compare what they have said with the speech made in the other place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and to attempt to analyse the way in which the Opposition parties approach the society in which we live. Let us examine what the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  said tonight. As Leader of the Opposition in the Senate he was entitled to speak for one hour. He did not avail himself of that right; he spoke for only half an hour. Only 2 journalists were sitting in the Press gallery. Obviously the Press had some indication of the lack of fire in the approach of the Opposition to the problems besetting the development of this country and its economic future. 
Having listened to the speech that  Mr Snedden  made in the other place about the Budget, the Press recognised that the contributions that would be made in this place by Opposition speakers would be colourless, uninspiring and puerile. There is no other way in which we can describe the contributions of those who have opposed the Government's Budget and have attempted, in their own inimitable style, to present an amendment to the Senate for its consideration. Perhaps the only positive thing in the debate to date has been the offer of the  Deputy  Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  to support any action that the Commonwealth Government may take to control prices as it endeavours to handle the very complex problem of inflation that is besetting the Western world. 
I think the Australian Labor Party got the message that  Senator McManus  personally agreed that the Commonwealth should have power to control prices. It is interesting to refer to what  Mr Snedden  had to say. The Press, in its analysis of the recent federal conference of the Liberal Party, was rather critical of the failure of that Party to grapple with current problems in contemporary politics. I think the only change that can be ascribed to the Liberal Party is its agreement to support an incomes and prices policy. Of course, the difficulty in which the Liberal Party finds itself is that it is in a somewhat contradictory position. For example,  Mr Snedden  says that inflation is harmful to the society and that it forces the poor to enrich the strong. He goes on to say that the Government has to take strong action and that to enable it to reach that objective it has to reduce public expenditure and allow the private sector to run unfettered,- On the other hand, on the next page of that speech  Mr Snedden  makes the point that if we are to tackle the serious problem of inflation we will have to have an incomes and prices policy. He suggested the holding of a national conference involving all sectors of the community. He went on to say that we would have to restrain incomes. He stated. 
Incomes would need to include wages, profits, dividends and interest. 
Contradicting himself he said that we would need to have the private sector unfettered in relation to the problem of inflation which besets our nation today. Of course, this is typical of the budgets which we have had from the Liberal and Country parties over many years. They have put on stopgap type policies and endeavoured to chop and change the economic direction of our country. Of course, now that the Labor Government is in office and bringing down its Budget the Liberal-Country Party finds it difficult to come up with any new thinking. 1 think that most Australian people would agree with the statement which was made by the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  when he presented his first Budget 8 days ago in the other place. He drew the attention of the Australian people to the program of the Government. I think it is worth reiterating that he drew attention to the fact that the Government was implementing energetically many of its election undertakings. He stated: 
This Budget incorporates far more decisions than any previous budget. Its overriding theme is one of reform. It is designed both to clear the decks for progress in the years ahead and to ensure that in major areas of concern - social welfare, education, the quality of urban life - real forward moves are made immediately. 
The Treasurer is saying that he is quite happy with the Budget. Here I have to challenge the conclusions which  Senator McManus  has made that the Treasurer is a dissatisfied person, not happy with the Budget. There is no evidence of this. Those of us who have spoken to the Treasurer can assure the Senate and the Australian people that in fact this Budget represents the decisions of the Treasurer and of the Cabinet. What we are endeavouring to do in this first instalment Budget of the new Labor Government is to change the priorities. Clearly this is what the Australian electors want. They voted this Government in because they recognised that there was a need for new policies. In that sense what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his election policy was that he was going to establish a much firmer and stronger public sector and put it in a primary position. 
The purpose of this was to help the man in the street to improve the quality of life in urban areas, to improve the public transport, to reduce unemployment and to improve pensions, repatriation benefits and a whole variety of other matters which have been so clearly expressed in the Budget. We have taken the first very essential step to abolish the means test. No  speaker  in opposing this Budget or supporting the amendment has attempted to give any credit to the Government for this very historic decision - which is incorporated in this Budget - to take the first step towards abolition of the means test. It will abolish the means terst as it applies to people 75 years or over. Let us examine the criticisms which have been made by the forces of conservatism in this country. They ure critical of the fact that in this Budget the Commonwealth is spending an additional $7 89m in the current financial year. In the area of education it is spending an additional $404m. I find it somewhat pathetic to hear Opposition speakers criticise what the Government is doing in education. It has increased the amount which was made available by the previous Government. I give some credit to the previous Government because last year it did seek to increase the Budget expenditure on education. In the new Government's approach to education we will spend 12 times more money on public education than has ever been spent before by the Commonwealth. We will spend 3 times more money in the private sector. This represents a tremendous and significant additional Commonwealth expenditure in the area of education. Instead of honourable senators opposite congratulating the Government all we hear is calamity howling. In relation to health - time will not permit me to canvass all .that the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  have said - again there has been an increase of 25 per cent over the amount provided in last year's Budget. An additional $196m will be spent on health and $3 40m on social welfare. On housing and community facilities - which incorporates the new urban affairs policy - the Government is increasing the expenditure to $41 lm. Compared with the previous Government's effort, this represents 324 per cent more than was provided the previous year. So we can go on to the increased expenditure which this Government incorporates in this Budget. 
Let honourable senators opposite say which section of the Budget should be curtailed. Are they saying that we should spend less on education, on pensions, on urban affairs or on health? I think that honourable senators find it difficult to present an argument against this Budget. That is why when each  speaker  has got up he has traversed grounds far outside the ambit of the Budget itself. That is very much evident from what Senators Withers, Webster and McManus have said. They cannot challenge the Government's record and its proposal to spend those additional sums on the Australian community. For example,  Senator McManus  endeavoured to say that the blame for rising prices of land and accommodation is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. This has never been stated before. In point of fact, we all know that the responsibility of providing land and accommodation is largely a matter for State governments. It is only since the establishment of the Department of Urban and Regional Development in the dying days of the last administration and which is now carried forward by this Government under the very active leadership of  Mr Tom  Uren that the Commonwealth has entered the field in a massive way in an endeavour to play a more meaningful role in accommodation. To suggest therefore that the rising price of land can be attributed to nearly 8 or 9 months of this Government's tenure of office seems to me to be an attempt to fool the Australian people. 
Honourable senators opposite talk about migrants. I think it is pretty common knowledge that the endeavours of the Opposition to make the migrant question a political issue in this country have probably failed very miserably in relation to the current inquiry which is being conducted by a committee of this Senate. I think it is becoming increasingly clear that the meetings which took place in Perth where 500 migrants congratulated  Senator Murphy  for his forthright stand against terrorism belie the statements made by some Opposition speakers. Then we have the hoary old question of defence. This is always raised by the Australian Democratic Labor Party and by some of the fanatical fringe of the Opposition parties. They always concern themselves about this mythical enemy, this threat which even the defence experts in their submissions to the Government and to the various committees of the Parliament tell us no longer exists, if it ever existed at all. Quite rightly the Government has said that in this period of relatively peaceful relations between nations we should not continue to spend so much money as has been spent in many previous years. 
I find it ludicrous for the Democratic Labor Party to make an issue out of defence because its mentor,  Mr Santamaria,  in addressing a mass meeting in Melbourne in the late 1930s called for the abolition of armaments and for peace. Of course, it is known that the Labor movement in those years was advocating a policy of collective security. If the allied powers had joined forces in those days it is likely that the horrible 1939-45 war could have been avoided. I am one of those about whom  Senator McManus  was talking. I was in the Army. Our defence was in such a bad .state in those years that every rifle in the unit in which I was serving - we had 1904 model rifles - was taken from us and sent up to Milne Bay. That was the state of preparedness of our nation in 1941. That happened under a government that was being led by people who represent the conservative viewpoint in the Australian political scene. 
I think we have to challenge some of the basic tenets of the Opposition. I do not think any member of the Senate could take exception to my quoting from the report of the Reserve Bank of Australia because all of the people who represent the leadership of that organisation were appointed by previous administrations. I do not think anyone appointed by this Administration - short of  Mr Hawke  who I think received an appointment in the last few days but has not yet taken his seat - could possibly be responsible for the comments made in this report. But the Opposition attempts to simplify the whole economic problem that is facing our country by suggesting that if we put a stop to wage increases we have the panacea to the problem; we will have no further problems so far as inflation is concerned. I want to refer the Senate to the comments made by the Reserve Bank. I am sure that it would be useful for  Senator Jessop,  who is trying to interject, to digest what is said in this report because it cannot be regarded as propaganda for the Labor Party. The report deals with the period 1972-73. It reads: 
In the event, private consumption grew firmly during 1972-73; a remarkable rise in disposable  incomes  overshadowed any increase in the willingness of consumers to spend. Wage and salary incomes rose strongly though no faster than in other recent years; 
So we have from a fairly reputable source a statement which I think probably represents the real position so far as costs are concerned, if they have any relationship at all to inflation. If we accept these comments as having any validity at all there is very little criticism about inflation that the Opposition can apply to this Government. If we examine the average weekly earnings - these figures have been supplied by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, Statistical Service section - we find that in the year 1969-70 they increased by $8.40, by $8.50 in 1970-71, by $8.50 in 1971-72, and by $6.20 in the current year. When we examine what was said by  Senator Withers  and by  Mr Snedden,  those figures surely would represent something which denies the credence of the Opposition which is endeavouring to say that increases in wages are the contributing factor to inflation and that it is Government expenditure that has to be curtailed if we are to solve the current problems of inflation in this country. I put it to the Senate that if the average weekly earnings are increasing at the rate of approximately $8 per annum they are increasing at the top level of the scale and not at the lower level of the scale. In other words, if average weekly earnings are increasing at about the 
Tate  of $8 per annum clearly it is those people receiving money way in excess of the average weekly earnings who are responsible for the increase in the average weekly earnings. 
If that is acceptable as a reasonable approach to the problem, it must be that the economy of the country is such that it can afford to pay wages in those areas. If that is an acceptable premise - and I suggest it is in replying largely to the criticism made by  Mr Snedden  who utilised the full time allowed to nim in the other place - then we are entitled to challenge another one of his favourite hobby-horses when he talks about the need to increase productivity if the Budget is to have any relevance to the economic problems facing this country. Here again let me refer to the period for which figures are available, namely, the census period 30 June 1947 to 30 June 1971.  Mr Snedden  takes the view that wages have to be controlled, that productivity has to be increased and that public spending has to be reduced. I think there are 3 principal premises upon which he bases his opposition to the Labor Party's economic program. 
Let us have a look at the employment position in primary and secondary industry as at 30 June 1947. In those days the proportion of people employed in the work force was 54.69 per cent - that is,' those associated with primary and secondary industry, who I think anyone would concede are those associated with productivity. The incredible thing is that some 24 years later, which is approximately the period for which the previous Government was occupying the Treasury bench, that figure has fallen to 43.43 per cent, a drop of 11 per cent in the proportion of people working in the productivity area of our country. So when the Opposition was in government it permitted a situation to develop where the percentage of the work force involved in primary and secondary production declined some 11 per cent. Yet it is suggested that the Government should curtail its own expenditure. 
Let us examine the question of Government expenditure for the period during which the former Government held responsibility. If we look at the tables provided with the booklet 'National Income and Expenditure 1972- 73' which was presented to us by the Treasurer, we find that in the period 1966-67 final consumption expenditure, which is associated with gross domestic production, increased some $95 lm in the private sector whereas it increased by only $172m in the public sector. Of course, that was in the period in which the previous Government accepted responsibility for leading this country. We are changing that emphasis and in this Budget the Labor Government is seeking drastically to increase expenditure in the public sector. In the current financial year we intend to spend an additional $789m on social welfare programs for the Australian people. 
Some criticism has been levelled at the Budget. Many of us believe that it is only a first step Budget. I find it easy to examine the Budget in a critical light. I also find it easy to examine the taxation figures. For example, if we look at average weekly earnings which are now $107.20 we find that people receiving less than that contribute 47.9 per cent to the personal income tax revenue of the Commonwealth and that in Commonwealth revenue received from indirect taxation 65 per cent of that received comes from those receiving less than the average weekly earnings. This is the result of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party policies. That same imbalance exists right across the board - whether it be at the State or local government level. 
In a report which was presented to the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand in Adelaide in May of this year figures were produced which showed that people receiving less than the average weekly earnings are contributing the greatest proportion of tax to Commonwealth, State and local government. It is the hope of the Labor Government that this imbalance will be changed. But we do not seek to change it in the first Budget because we believe that there are priorities to which we are committed and that there is forward planning which requires us to spend a great deal of money. 
I think it is worth while now to move on to what the task force which reviewed the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government had to say. I applaud the initiative of the Commonwealth Government in appointing the task force. I think it was right for the task force to say that in examining expenditure programs involving taxation and revenue concessions it sought firstly to explore the economic and social purposes for which the concessions originally were introduced. Anybody who reads the task force's considerations must surely agree that the examination of past policies was long overdue. Something was said about defence. I think that the task force was quite right in drawing the attention of the Parliament to the fact that claims by defence on community resources need to be scrutinised with more than usual care and that a reduction in those claims and a redistribution of them between domestic and overseas resources would be economically of great value to the Government's financial and economic planning. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that a student has been excluded from the Menzies College at Macquarie University since June this year on the grounds of his homosexuality? Does the Minister know that this residential college is subsidised by public funds to the extent of 87.5 per cent and that the rules of the College insist that there shall be no discrimination against students? Is the Minister aware that the theologian in charge of the College will only permit the student to return to the University provided he subjugates his sex desires and undergoes psychiatric treatment. In view of the Australian Government's announced intention to take over the full financial responsibility of all tertiary education, will the Minister take steps to see that all institutions receiving Federal funds accept the fundamental principle that no students will be discriminated against as a result of their race, creed, politics or sexuality? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the concern of the New South Wales Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin, at the absence overseas of  Mr Alexander  Barton, a person whose financial activities have caused hardship to many companies and individuals? Is the Minister aware that reports are circulating that  Mr Barton  and/or his companies have been involved in selling aircraft to the illegal regime in Rhodesia in defiance of the policies of the United Nations Organisation? In the circumstances will the Government help  Sir Robert  Askin in his endeavours to have  Mr Barton  return to Australia to face the grave allegations made in the New South Wales Parliament by temporarily withdrawing  Mr Barton's  passport? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that currently there is an extreme shortage of building materials in Australia which, combined with labour shortages, is causing an inflated cost factor in the building industry? In the circumstances will the Minister consider imposing, after a discussion with Cabinet, a total ban on the export of building materials while the industry is under such pressures? 
We have been treated to a very cavalier approach by members of the Opposition to the very vexed problem of inflation. After all, they had a very considerable number of years to rectify not only a national problem but also an international problem in regard to inflation. What have been the Government's actions in the brief 9 months that it has been in office in an endeavour to grapple with these problems which all economists in the world have recognised, have an international implication. In fact, international influences are contributing greatly to our problems. The Government took the extraordinary step early in December of last year after the elections of revaluing the Australian dollar, subsequently to be followed by tariff cuts. In addition, a further revaluation of the Australian dollar took place recently. Just over 2 weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  put the proposition to the State Premiers at the Australian Constitutional Convention to give the Commonwealth power to control prices. Of course, in the last few days certain action has been taken in respect of interest rates. As a result of a decision taken in the House of Representatives yesterday we have currently before the Senate a proposal that the Commonwealth should have the power to control prices. It may be argued that those actions were incorrect actions. But they represent an attempt by this Government to remedy a very unsatisfactory situation. 
If honourable senators opposite have the time and energy, I would like them to read what is contained in the Budget documents. I do not think the figures that have been produced in the Senate can be said in any way to relate directly to the problems of economic management in this country. The figures indicate that during the first half of 1972-73 the Australian Government budgetary transactions resulted in a domestic deficit of $1, 351m. That statement is contained on page 14 of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Speech goes on to state that the volume of money increased by 16.7 per cent in the 6 months to December 1972. 1 put it to honourable senators that the difficulties we are living through now are the product of the previous Administration and, in particular, a product of the Budget introduced for the year 1972-73. 
Let us examine what has been said by some of the Opposition speakers in this debate. They have spoken at great length about the problems of inflation. Of course, it is a problem that is facing this Government and one which is worrying every person in Australia. Let us look at what has happened since 1949 when the Liberal Party took office and at the inflationary rate from 1949-50 right up until today. These figures were produced by the research section of our Parliamentary Library. Therefore, I think they can be regarded as coming from an unimpeachable source. Using an index ratio of 100, in 1949-50 we start off with a figure of 64.96. That year there was an inflation rate of 9.4 per cent. In the following year- the first 1 8 months after the Liberal Government took office- the rate of inflation was 25.4 per cent. A year later it was 4.5 per cent and in the following year it was 14.4 per cent. These percentage increases are in excess of the current rate of inflation with which we are concerned today. It is suggested that the total problem involved is one which can be corrected by a simple mechanism of having some form of wage control and wage fixation. Some honourable senators have taken the view over a great number of years that wages determine prices, and because we have a demand situation at the moment it is in that area that the attention of the Government should be directed. They say that there should be an endeavour to cut back on Government expenditure. 
I digress for a moment to draw the attention of the Senate to what is included in the current Budget proposals which have yet to be endorsed by the Senate. The Government proposes to spend $799m more. In the last few weeks in which we have been debating the economy and examining the Budget I have heard all sorts of complaints about not enough money being provided for housing, for pensions and, according to the Democratic Labor Party, for defence. There has been criticism about the inadequacies of social welfare payments. It has been said by those who stand behind the Opposition parties that not enough migrants are coming into the country. Let the Opposition parties say what area of public expenditure should be reduced in order to reduce government expenditure. They constantly repeat this theme in a parrot-like fashion. They say that the panacea for inflation is the simple expedient of reducing government expenditure. The fact is that in the year under review it has not been the expenditure of the Commonwealth that has been responsible for the increase in demand; it has been the expenditure at the State and local government level. Commonwealth Government expenditure certainly is mooted and planned in respect of the 1973-74 Budget, but no one can say that at this stage that expenditure is a contributing factor to inflation. 
Let us examine what has been said by previous speakers in this debate. They have talked about average weekly earnings. I want to draw to the attention of the Senate and of the intelligent people outside who are listening the ratios that ought to be examined. In 1949-50 the gross operating surplus of companies in Australia was $63 lm. That was the amount of profit in that year. By 1972-73 that had increased to $5,286m, an increase of 1,190 per cent on that for the 1949-50 base year. I believe that the previous Government was largely responsible for the problems we have to face today. Let us look at average weekly earnings for the same period. The figures are supplied by the same unimpeachable source. Average weekly earnings in 1 949-50 were $19.40. The projected average weekly earnings in 1973-74, taking into account the current rate of inflation, are $1 14.70- an increase of 600 per cent. It is just a little more than half the increase in the gross operating profits of major companies in Australia. Average weekly earnings are not the earnings of the people whom  Senator Little  and members of the Labor Party are endeavouring to represent. If average weekly earnings are increasing, they are increasing at the top level of the scale and not at the bottom level. People earning in excess of the average weekly earnings are contributing to the increase in average weekly earnings. 
Members of the Opposition have had much to say about the consumer price index. Starting again at the same base, in 1949 it was 47.6. The last figure available, that as at 30 June, was 129.8 per cent- an increase of 367 per cent. So wages and the consumer price index are lagging considerably behind the gross operating surplus or profits of secondary industry. If we examine farm incomes for the same period, the figures show a dramatic increase from $ 1,468m in 1953-54-1 was unable to get figures for previous years but I imagine that they would be considerably less- to $3,08 lm in the current year. So, on all fronts we see that there has been an accumulation of profits, an accumulation of income and a reduction in general living standards. 
One would imagine that honourable senators opposite would apply themselves to an intelligent examination of these facts instead of clinging to the old philosophies about government expenditure. After all, what contributed to the defeat of the previous Government was its refusal to make money available to solve the problems of land and accommodation. In those areas today we have a crisis on our hands. Hitherto those matters came within the province of the State governments. They are not matters in which the Commonwealth expressed any great interest. It is true, however, that in the current Budget this Government has made considerable sums of money available for improvements in the fields of land and accommodation. 
Some honourable senators have suggested that it is totally wrong for the Government to cut back on subsidies for rural and secondary industries. Is someone going to tell me that if the Commonwealth spends its money on housing, health and welfare, urban affairs and sewerage, instead of in the rural sector in the form of subsidies, one form of spending is inflationary and the other is not? Yet that has been seriously suggested by honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber. They have criticised the Government for cutting back subsidies in the rural sector and deciding to spend money in the urban sector. They say that because that money is now being spent in the urban sector it is a contributing factor to inflation. How false is this reasoning? Every Opposition senator who has spoken in this place since we reassembled has been very critical of the Government for its endeavours to reallocate resources and to establish a new system of priorities. Yet when we have an opportunity to deal with the problem of price control, when the Commonwealth Government suggests that it should have the power to control prices, we have this time wasting proposition by  Senator 
Greenwood. The Senate should today be discussing the Bill dealing with price control. 
Today the Senate proceedings are being broadcast and we can reach the greatest number of people, but it was interesting to note that when  Senator Greenwood,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, moved this urgency motion only 12 members of the Opposition were present and nobody from the Democratic Labor Party was present. Only 12 members of the Opposition were present to indicate interest in this great question of inflation, this great matter of urgency, this great matter that is concerning and occupying the interest of people throughout Australia. Of course the Government is concerned about inflation and it has taken important steps to do something about it. It has asked the Senate to give the Commonwealth Government power to control prices, to give it an opportunity to manage the economy. But I will bet pounds to peanuts that I know what will happen in the next 24 hours during which that Bill will be brought before the Senate. The Opposition will take its traditional Opposition position. It will be partisan and will not apply itself to the problem of solving inflation any more than it was prepared to apply itself to the inflation that was characteristic of its long reign of office in this country. 
Honourable senators, I notice, will stand up and talk about productivity as though it again were an important factor for consideration. If it is a factor, why during the period in which the Opposition was in office did it permit the proportion of the work force in primary and secondary industries to drop- those are the 2 areas which produce things- from 54.69 percent to 43.43 per cent?  Senator Wright  was a member of the Government at that time. He and other honourablle senators are always prepared to stand up and criticise the situation in which the Government finds itself after having inherited 23 years of inflation, 23 years of misrule and 23 years of inability to find a proper resource allocation policy for the Australian people. 
It does not matter what documents honourable senators like to pick up. They can refer to the documents on the Australian economy produced by the Treasurer. The document I have was produced as at June 1973. It shows that there has been no slackening in the pace of economic growth in the early months of 1973. We accept that view as a basic tenet. Is it suggested that if there has to be a slackening off it has to be in the Government sector? This is the proposition of those who are criticising the Government today. That is what  Senator Greenwood  said. He said that we have a vested interest in inflation and that all we are concerned about is continuing the present situation because we will get greater income as a result of inflation. That is precisely what  Mr Snedden  said when he presented his Budget last year. He said that the Government recognised that inflation was creating additional funds for the Commonwealth and the 1972-73 Budget reduced personal taxation. The Opposition parties recognised that that was a feature of every Budget that they produced before this Parliament and before the Australian people. For the Opposition to suggest that the Government should rectify this situation in its first few months of office is to adopt a superficial and irresponsible approach. It is suggested that there was no real attempt to grapple with the problems facing this nation, that they were dealt with on a purely party political basis and not on a basis of assisting this Government to have power to control the economy. The Opposition is prepared to leave the powers to control prices and incomes at the State government level. It is not prepared to give the powers to the Commonwealth. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I present the report of the Joint Committee on Prices relating to the stabilisation of meat prices, together with the minutes of the evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State who represents the Foreign Minister. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the Chilean military junta is executing and torturing supporters of the late constitutional head of State,  President  Allende? As these persons support social change by constitutional means, does not the persecution of" Chilean citizens offend democratic procedures? In the circumstances, would the Government give serious consideration to breaking off relations with this illegal military Government? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The report 'Stabilisation of Meat Prices', which has just been tabled, is the first report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Prices. The recommendations of the Committee are shown in front of the report. The major recommendation is that a special flexible tax be introduced on beef exports, with the proceeds from this tax being returned for the benefit of beef livestock producers. 
The philosophy behind this recommendation is very simple. The average retail price of meat increased by almost 25 per cent in the first seven months of 1973, and all the evidence suggested that in the absence of intervention the upward pressure on prices would not be reduced until the autumn of 1974 at the earliest. 
It is clear that the export of beef has been the principal factor in the large increase of the domestic price of meat. Meat is the most important single sub-group in the consumer price index. The increase in meat prices has contributed enormously to inflation. In the June quarter of this year, for instance, two-fifths of the consumer price index increase of 3.3 per cent was accounted for by the increase in meat prices. In addition, the rapid price increases have placed burdens on persons on low incomes, persons on fixed incomes, larger families and pensioners. In these circumstances the Committee considered it was desirable to stabilise meat prices. The Committee concluded that the only way to reduce meat prices was to increase supplies of meat to the domestic market by diverting supplies from export. The amount diverted need not be very large. In addition beef only would need to be diverted. Mutton and lamb are currently in such short supply that any diversion from the export market would not be significant. 
The Committee was very conscious of the need for a proposal that would not be counter productive in the long term by deterring production or deterring the supply of cattle to the market. However, by returning the proceeds of the tax to all beef producers, any adverse effects would be avoided. The producer's incentive to increase production would not therefore in any way be impaired. Indeed, in the circumstances of very strong overseas demand, as at present, which would necessitate a very high export tax, the producer's incentive to increase production would be enhanced as total revenue to the Australian industry would be increased. 
The second major recommendation is also brought to the attention of the Parliament, namely that the meat industry should do something itself to stabilise domestic prices pending the introduction of an export tax. If successful the Government might consider not introducing the export tax proposal. The emphasis on export which the industry has been pursuing is not in its best long term interests. The domestic market is the largest and most important and this is the very market that is not being looked after. 
It is the view of the Committee that unless something is done to increase the amount of red meat available to the domestic market, the consumer could develop tastes for other meats to the permanent detriment of the red meat industry. In this regard, evidence presented to the Committee showed that in the last 10 years per capita consumption of poultry meat has increased rapidly and there is similar scope for increase in pig meat consumption. It will be noted that the report contains a dissent. Four non-Government members did not agree with the major recommendations.  Mr Garland,  the fifth, was out of Australia when the report was considered. I commend the report to the Senate. 
The decision of the Parliament to appoint a Joint Committee on Prices came about as a recognition in the early months of the year that there was a need for the Parliament to establish some mechanism to deal with the general increase in prices. The Parliament decided to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices- a unique organisation; the first established by the Australian Parliament. The Committee was directed to consider as its first reference the stabilisation of meat prices. The Australian Parliament referred that reference to the Committee on 3 May. Since that date the 
Committee has received a great number of submissions from residents of Australia, consumers organisations and other organisations. It fell to my lot to be appointed  Chairman  of SubCommittee B which had the responsibility of examining the rapid increase in prices of meat in Australia. The Government referred the matter of meat prices and their astronomical leap to the Australian Meat Board in April and subsequently the Board reported to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  That report became reference material for the parliamentary Committee. 
It would be of interest if I made some reference to some of the matters that appeared in that report. I refer to page 8 of the Meat Board 's report. It had been asked to consider what action the Australian Parliament could take about meat prices. The Board said: 
If the Government decides to attempt to control domestic meat prices, the complexities of the industry are such that a high export tax, capable of variation up or down would appear to be the only practicable method open, but this would not result in 'stabilised prices'. 
So the Committee was given some inkling by the Meat Board that that may well be worthy of examination but it took the view that it was not a practical step. The Committee therefore called evidence from a great variety of organisations. There was a very good response. Evidence was received mainly from producer and export organisations and to a lesser extent from consumer bodies. Witnesses from those organisations subsequently appeared before the Committee, as did representatives of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and State government agencies. The Committee had been informed by the Australian Meat Board that it should not consider the imposition of a domestic meat quota or seriously consider a meat export tax. However, as the evidence unfolded it became clear that government intervention in this area was very desirable. 
I want to refer to the references that subsequently became the majority view of the Committee. Of course, many of the people who gave evidence before the inquiry were asked questions relating to domestic quotas, an export tax and government intervention, or what other schemes could be recommended to the Government as a means of stabilising meat prices in Australia. I refer the Senate to page 10 of the submission to the Committee from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The Bureau stated: 
Imposition of an export tax on beef and lamb (in Spring) would lower average unit returns to exporters by close to the full extent of the tax, would divert supplies to the local market and would result in a fall in domestic prices. 
The results of the empirical studies suggest that the initial impact of an export tax of 3c per lb. ( about 10 per cent ) on beef exports would reduce saleyard prices by about 2c per lb. A 10 per cent tax on lamb exports in the export period would tend to reduce Victorian saleyard prices by about 10 per cent (i.e. about 2c per lb). 
Total returns to producers would be lower as a result of the tax although pan of any fall would be offset should the tax be redistributed to producers. 
It was the suggestion from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that caused the Committee subsequently to make part of its general recommendation that should the Government impose an export tax on beef- I stress the point that in the report we suggest that the only Government intervention that is necessary here is in respect of the export of beef- the proceeds of that tax should go back to the producers. As various witnesses gave evidence to the inquiry we were able to come to some sort of conclusion. For example,  Mr Fitzgibbon,  the General Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation, said in his submission: 
In the Federation's view the pertinent points for consideration are these: Australia is a country that produces a surplus of meat which is available for export. World prices for meat are now sufficiently high to make the export trade more attractive to exporters than supplying the domestic market. If the Federal Government supports the concept that the export market will be supplied in preference to the domestic market then it is actively supporting the concept of imported inflation at a fairly high degree. It is surely a correct policy that the Australian consumer would be entitled to be supplied first in accordance with Australian costs of production rather than to overseas inflated prices imposed upon him because of the availability of the export market. 

 Dr Freebairn from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture gave very valuable evidence. The relevant portion of his answer in response to a question posed by me was this: 
Personally I think the best way is a export tax, particularly a percentage one. It has the advantage that if meat prices go very high then you tax higher and higher; if the price drops very low, the tax becomes smaller and smaller. Perhaps you can have a tax that is variable, say set every 3 months; 3 months would give exporters sufficient time to tie up their arrangements. 
Then I asked him: 
You feel that that mechanism could bring about the desired result on the domestic market? 

 Dr Freebairn replied: 
Yes. I say yes because it is based on the assumption that the wholesale and export industry are rational, and that they distribute meat to where they think they can get the best return. If you put a tax on, you effectively lower the per unit return they can get from the export market, and this should induce them to take some of their meat away and put it on the domestic market. As you do that, given our estimates of demand elasticities and so on, this will tend to reduce domestic prices and, of course, the amount they put on this domestic market will balance out, until there is a son of equivalence between the export price less tax and the domestic price. 
A similar view was expressed by  Mr O  Toole on page 571 of the Hansard report.  Mr O  Toole is the Federal Assistant Secretary, Australasian Meat Industry Employees' Union. The weight of the evidence substantiated the view expressed in the original report by the Australian Meat Board that the export of meat was contributing towards an inflated domestic price. However, I think we need to have some understanding of the sort of problem with which we were dealing. It should be brought to the attention of the Senate that in the United States of America the  President,  on 12 March this year, was forced to take certain actions in relation to the problem of meat prices in his country. He placed a price freeze on meat insisting that it not rise above the average price 30 days previous to his declaration. Such a price freeze was to remain in force for 6 months, concluding on 12 September. It was clear as the evidence unfolded before the Committee that it was the domestic meat situation in the United States which was the major contributing factor towards the demand for meat and the increase in the price in the United States and, consequently, the increase in the domestic price in this country. So it was not a matter of solidarity. It seemes to me that the Australian Meat Board would be diverting and encouraging the export of great quantities of meat to the American market. As to the problem of meat prices in the United States one would have thought that we might have expressed some concern at the dilemma which the American Government was in. But the Board took very energetic steps to see that the dilemma with which  President  Nixon was faced on his domestic market was offset by a very rapid increase in meat exports from Australia. 
It is true that in the last week or so there has been some drop in the general price of meat in this country because already the cattlemen who withheld their supplies from the United States market are now beginning to sell their products to the saleyards. Of course in this sense there is less demand on our export beef. It is interesting to note that  President  Nixon- I think that most people, even honourable senators in this chamber, will accept that he has conservative views- saw fit to impose a price freeze on meat in his country. The report which I am presenting to the Senate this evening is not out of character with the sort of action which the American  President  saw fit to take. Likewise it is certainly not out of character with the action which was taken on 29 August by the Canadian Prime Minister. An official journal from the Canadian Embassy states: 
The Trudeau Government came to grips with rocketing food costs at an all-day meeting last week, but once again rejected wage and price controls as the solution. Instead, the Government imposed export controls on beef and pork and announced an increase in old age pensions. 
Prime Minister Trudeau insisted that . . . prices are a world-wide problem and although no shortages have developed in Canada, there were shortages in the United States as a result of that Government's price freeze. 
Similarly the New Zealand Government has seen fit to take very stringent measures to see that there was no export of meat- principally lamb and mutton- from that country, in order to meet the requirements of the domestic market. There is nothing really revolutionary or extraordinarily radical about the conclusions which the Committee reached. Of course we must have some regard to the Meat Board. As I have indicated it gave us some sort of a lead in this area. But as the inquiry proceeded we found that the Australian Meat Board which, it is interesting to note, was established some 37 or 38 years ago is, in fact, an export organisation. No authority operating in this country is concerned with meat production. That organisation belies its name. It should be called the Australian Meat Export Corporation because that is precisely the role which the Government has allotted to it. However, I stress that in the recommendations which members of the Committee have made to Parliament we have suggested the reconstitution of the Australian Meat Board so that it will carry out the task which it seems clear it needs to carry out and that is meat production over the whole area of meat and not just red meat. At the moment it has limited jurisdiction. Being a Board concerned solely with the export of meat one can imagine that it is principally occupied with meat export. We have suggested that the Board should be reconstituted in order to change the emphasis from the export of meat to meat production to meet both domestic and overseas demand. Because the Board is such an organisation we feel that it had a somewhat limited approach to this very vexed problem of concerning itself with the domestic market. Page 5 of the report on the Stabilisation of Meat Prices by the Australian Meat Board states: 
Market conditions suggest that the upsurge in domestic meat prices have been temporary. While it would be too optimistic to expect any substantial fall in the near future because of recent cost increases in processing and distribution, the Board believes that the rising trend has been checked. 
Perhaps the Australian Meat Board's understanding of the world market situation as well as the domestic market situation needs closer examination, because since its report was presented to the Minister in April this year there has been a very considerable and continuing increase in the prices of all types of meat. 
For example, the price of beef increased by 10 per cent from 1 July to the end of August when the last figures were taken out. I think we can take it that the Australian Meat Board would be dealing with the problem of increased prices as at the end of the March quarter. The price of a leg of lamb increased by 2c per lb from March to July. This is according to the official figures. The price of lamb short loin chops increased by 10 per cent, leg chops by 15 per cent, leg chump chops by 10 per cent, and so on. The pattern is a continuing upward spiral. So I think the Committee is quite right in coming to the conclusion that the weight of the evidence shows that the export market has been the principal factor involved in this spiral and that the mechanism should be established to overcome this problem. We are making no attempt to establish what rate of export tax should be placed upon the export of beef, and I stress the point that the tax is related only to beef exports. It is in that context that the Committee has made its various recommendations. 
What are the principal recommendations? As 1 outlined in my opening remarks, the principal recommendations included the imposition of a special flexible tax on beef export. We do not say that the Government is obliged to impose that tax as from tomorrow. We suggest that the meat industry be requested to restrict beef exports voluntarily. It has been given the opportunity to do that. There is some evidence in relation to the domestic situation in the United States and of perhaps a recognition by the industry that it has to concern itself with the domestic market, which is the principal part of the productive process of meat in Australia. The industry has to recognise that the domestic market is the biggest part of its market. Therefore it is important for it to give consideration to the home market. 
We say in our recommendations that if American livestock producers continue to withold stock from the United States domestic market immediate action should be taken to impose quotas on Australian beef exports to the United States. We say also that in order to create the other influences on the domestic market there is a need for the Government to encourage the expansion and production of the white meat industry by taking special steps and also by promotion as well as by giving an assurance as to supplies of stock feed. We heard evidence from the pig producers as well as the chicken producers, suggesting that Government action and encouragement in this area would lead to increased production and therefore more meat being available on the domestic market. 
I have made some reference to the Australian Meat Board. It should be reconstituted to include representatives of the consumers, employees and retailers and should be charged with looking after the interests of the meat industry as a whole. As a result of our experiences on this Committee we have suggested also the establishment of a government sponsored and financed consumer organisation. We do this because it became very evident as the inquiry developed that the representatives of the cattlemen 's association and the various farmer groups, who came before the Committee well armed with documents, figures and statistics and accompanied by research officers and public relations personnel, were capable of presenting a very strong and cogent case on behalf of their organisations. On the other hand, the consumers had no organisation capable of producing the sort of documented evidence that is invaluable from the point of view of the objectivity of any parliamentary report. In those circumstances it was the view of the Committee that the Government should take special steps to establish an organisation to protect the interests of consumers generally- not just in relation to meat. 
I believe that a number of things need to be stressed. It will be said- it is said in the minority report- that any government intervention in this area will produce a reaction and reduce confidence in the industry. I am not one of those who take the view that the rural sector is not entitled to every assistance in order to maintain its stability, but I put it to the Senate that at the moment the rural sector is enjoying most bouyant conditions. Having regard to the lessons that most farmers learned after the difficult year of 1969-70, there has been a great deal of diversification in rural industry. Because of the difficulties which they experienced, government assistance has been made available to the rural sector. Subsidies have been made available in great quantities. Great amounts of money have been made available over many years. But in the difficult years subsidies were increased to a tremendous extent. In the year 1971-72 the Government paid out $40 lm in subsidies in order to put the industry in a much better financial position to meet its responsibilities to the Australian consumer and to the world export market. The fact is that the Australian taxpayer has subsidised the rural sector to the tune of thousands of millions of dollars in the post-war years. I do not think any member of the Parliament would object to these subsidies being paid. 
But currently we are living in good times and the Government has taken certain steps to reduce those subsidies. 
I suggest that in this report there is very little for the farmer to be worried about. I say this not only because I believe that the producer will be the beneficiary of the greater amount of the revenue from the export tax, should the Government agree to impose it, but also because the government intervention would be at a time when the other sectors of the rural industry are enjoying very prosperous times. The year 1968-69 was a good year compared with the subsequent year when prices dropped. I think we are entitled to show that in the current situation the average price per kilogram for greasy wool is 223.89c, whereas in the year 1968-69 the price paid was 98.48c. The difference in price represents and increase of 230 per cent. Likewise, in the same year, 1968-69, the price of wheat was in excess of the price paid the following year when prices dropped. The price paid per bushel of wheat in 1968-69 was 123.7c; it has now gone up to 225c. This represents an increase of approximately 100 per cent. If we look at the situation in relation to meat, which is the subject of the report, we find again that taking 1968-69 as the base year the price of mutton has increased by 300 per cent, lamb by 225 per cent and beef by 160 per cent. For the same period average weekly earnings have increased by only a little more than 150 per cent. So, if there is buoyancy in the industry, I think we are entitled to cut down on the subsidies which have been made available by the Government in past times. Times have improved, and we have to give some consideration to the interests of the consumer who has nobody to turn to for assistance- except the Parliament. 
I could talk at great length because this inquiry continued for a considerable period of time. But I want to refer to statements that have been made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  which, it seems to me, do not do either him or the industry any good. For several months of this year- since March and April-he has been engaged in a great deal of calamity howling. He has made all sorts of statements throughout the country and city Press. In April the following report appeared: 
The Country Party Leader  (Mr Anthony),  accused the Government yesterday of deliberately creating hysteria about meat prices to allow the introduction of price control. 
Similarly, in April he predicted that there would be a Federal Government tax on meat exports. That was before the Committee even met. 
When one examines some of the statements that the Leader of the Country Party has made, it seems that he does not know what is actually happening not only in his own country but throughout the world. For example, on 17 April 1973 in one of his official handouts he said: 
President Nixon did not include meat in his wage and price freeze because he knew it was impossible to effectively control meat prices. 
I can assure honourable senators that there is any number of Press cuttings here which show that that is precisely what the  President  of the United States did. In the concluding paragraph of that official handout  Mr Anthony  said: 
It is true that meat prices have risen since December but they appear to have reached a peak and were now receding. 
So  Mr Anthony  finds himself in the same category as the Australian Meat Board. All of this has been shown by conclusive evidence given to the Committee to be at variance with the facts. 
Then I come to the minority report. Time will not permit me to deal at length with what the minority report seeks to do. But it is a most pathetic minority report. Endeavours have been made to present a picture which tries to create the impression that nothing can be done and that nothing should be done. It states: 
Encouragement, rather than discouragement, should be the keynote of the Government approach. To encourage the industry the Government would need to consider the provision of long term low interest finance, input subsidies, financial assistance for disease control, breeding and pasture research, restoration of taxation concessions for rural investment . . . 
These are precisely the concessions that existed prior to the current situation which caused the Government and the Parliament to examine the whole problem of meat prices in Australia. The Australian people have expressed themselves in no uncertain terms. Editorial comments in every newspaper throughout Australia have said that it is up to the Government to do something about meat prices. An editorial in the Sydney 'Sun' of 21 August last criticised the inactivity of the Government and said that the meat inquiry was taking too long. But we were attempting to examine the question, to get to the core of the problem and to make the sort of recommendations which we believed would be useful from the consumers point of view. The editorial continued: 
What is wrong- infuriatingly wrong- is that beef prices in Australia are largely dictated by the demand overseas. 
It also pays beef exporters more than $5m a year from Australian taxes to encourage them to sell still more meat abroad. 
In our Budget the Government already has wiped out one of those incentives. That newspaper expresses the sentiments of the Australian people. 
The Government is emboldened to do something about it. The report which we have presented gives the Government the means by which the domestic price of meat can be considerably lowered. The Committee has taken the step of suggesting that, whatever is done about the imposition of an export tax, it should go back to the producers, and those overseas should pay the greater proportion of the tax. We have asked the industry to put its own house in order. We have suggested steps which we think will contribute largely to the stabilisation of meat prices in Australia. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the efforts of various penal reform organisations to change the revenge ethic in our penal institutions? Has he noted the strong views of a Liberal Member of the Legislative Council in Victoria who said that we retain the ancient barbarism and mental torture in our punitive system and that there is no greater wrong perpetrated in our society than that which goes under the name of justice? Recognising that the Attorney-General has an enlightened attitude on such social questions, will he give consideration to initiating discussions with State Ministers for Justice to examine better methods of dealing with offenders than incarceration in existing penal institutions? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is the Federal Government's reported decision to require all foreign embassies to pay rates on properties in Canberra designed to bolster that city's municipal budget? If the answer is in the affirmative, will the Governments-give consideration to extending this important principle that rates should be paid on all properties by agreeing that the Australian Government should pay rates on all of its properties to the relevant local authorities, thus rectifying a serious grievance between the Australian Government and local government throughout Australia? 
Has the Minister representing the Postmaster-General and /or his staff, when using the telephone, experienced the exasperating use of telephone recordings in relation to new numbers and other service difficulties? Does the Minister agree that this excessive use of recordings was instituted during the period when the Liberal-Country Party Government allowed a deterioration of services in the Postmaster-General's Department? Will the Minister discuss with the Labor PostmasterGeneral the possibility of reducing the growing use of recordings which require a subscriber to make several calls to reach his original number, causing a great deal of frustration and a considerable waste of time? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that reports are circulating of attempts being made by English couriers to recruit 300 ex- Vietnam veterans in a mercenary army to fight in Rhodesia for the illegal Smith regime? Would not the involvement of any Australian in the internal affairs of Rhodesia constitute a breach of the United Nations' decision which forbids the affiliated countries to aid or abet the minority and illegal groups purporting to be the Government of that country? What steps can the Australian Government take to put a stop to the activities of such persons who seek to offer $300 a week to kill and maim those seeking majority rule for their country? 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government recognise that the prices of meat, onions and potatoes have a considerable influence on the consumer price index and inflation? Is the Minister aware that according to the New South Wales Department of Agriculture the official price of Queensland onions on the Sydney market rose from $3.60 a 45 lb bag on 3 September 1973 to $11 on 8 October 1 973- some 5 weeks later? Did he, in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise, approve an import licence for New Zealand onions in the belief that the importation of those onions would result in the lowering of the price to the consumer? Does he know that onions landed in Australia a fortnight ago at $5 a 45 lb bag were sold on the Sydney markets at the $ 1 1 level? Does the Government regard that as being excessive profiteering? Have market manipulations and profiteering recently robbed consumers of millions of dollars? In the circumstances, will the Minister give favourable consideration to approving the importation of large quantities of American onions, which are available at a very competitive price, thereby protecting the interests of consumers from the manipulation and greed of growers and wholesalers? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission has investigated the financial affairs of 309 companies operating in that State? Does he know that 98 prosecutions have followed these investigations, arising from alleged breaches of the Companies Act, the Secret Commissions Act and the Crimes Act? Could the Minister advise the Senate whether he has any knowledge of these breaches of the Crimes Act and whether the Government has ordered the Taxation Office to carry out further investigations of people associated with many of these companies to see whether there has been any attempt to defraud the Australian Government of tax moneys? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the decision of the oil producing countries in the Persian Gulf to increase the price of crude oil from $3 to $3.45 per barrel, which is a rise of 17 per cent? Is the Minister aware that one-third of our oil requirements are imported and that the new price could have a major effect on fuel costs? Is the Minister able to say whether the Government's new fuel policy took into account this possibility and whether this possibility is substantially the reason why the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  has been energetic in his endeavours to establish Commonwealth control and direction of our fuel resources? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the locally produced oil can be held at its present price to minimise the effect of the Middle East decision on all fuel users? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that at the request of conservation bodies, citizen and resident action groups, the New South Wales Builders Labourers Federation has imposed green bans' on development in the Sydney region to an estimated value of $3,000m? Do not these community organisations see the union bans as their only safeguard against the follies of officialdom? Can the Minister assess the effects of these bans on the already overheated building industry, and state whether the Federal Government sees the green bans as an important tool in the country's fight against inflation? Will the Minister agree that if all these bans were lifted, the demands on resources in the building industry would seriously worsen the inflationary pressures in the economy and harm the Government's endeavours to solve the housing crisis? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It relates to Croatian terrorism and follows a question asked by  Senator Hannan  on 23 October and the conviction, by a jury, of 4 men who were sentenced by Judge Hicks in Sydney Quarter Sessions last Friday. Is it a fact that the 4 men who were found guilty of a terrorist assault against a 61-year-old Croatian were referred to in documents tabled by the Attorney-General in March of this year as being associated with the terrorist group called the United Croats of West Germany? Is it also a fact that one of the men, Jakov Suljak, was named in the Attorney-General's statement as the leader of this organisation and a man 'with a particularly violent record '? Is it a fact that Judge Hicks, in sentencing Suljak, recommended that he be deponed? Is it a fact that on 1 1 November 1969 the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police,  Mr J.  Davis, also recommended his deportation and that that recommendation was not acted upon by the members of the previous Government, including the Attorney-General's predecessor,  Senator Greenwood,  during whose term of office this vicious, politically motivated attack took place? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the large scale petrol promotion campaign being waged by the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd to sell 'New Generation Shell'? Can the Minister say, from his knowledge of the Department of Customs and Excise, whether there is any difference in the quality of various brands of petrol? Is he, in his capacity representing the Minister for Science, able to say whether the so-called additives mixed with petrol are beneficial to motorists or the community, or is the device merely an exercise in consumer deception? Has the Minister for Science had any opportunity to have analysed the additives mixed with petrol? Does this type of advertising come within the scope of consumer protection and the Trade Practices Bill 1973? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware that building workers were arrested in Sydney this morning and charged with trespassing on a number of building sites? Were some of these building workers arrested on properties where Australian Government contractors have locked out employees? Will the Attorney-General examine the question of whether there has been a breach of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by employers who are engaged on Australian Government contracts? If the sites were owned by the Commonwealth did the police act at the behest of the Commonwealth? 
The Senate is discussing the visit of the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to Japan and China, which I believe was probably one of the most significant visits ever conducted by an Australian Prime Minister and parliamentary colleagues. I think it is significant also that within 24 hours of his arrival back in this country he took steps to report to the Australian Parliament about his visit and the success of that visit. But this move was thwarted because the Opposition shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs was not able to be present in the House of Representatives on the day the statement was to have been made as he had taken the opportunity to go to Melbourne to attend the Melbourne Cup. However, 3 days after the Prime Minister's return we are discussing his visit. It is clear from what has been said by Opposition speakers that they are suffering from sour grapes. The Opposition is still living in the past. It is still on that slow boat to China which should have reached the shores of that country many years ago. It kept Australia in the political wilderness in relation to its association with that important country. 
However, the event has taken place. The Australian Government has recognised the People's Republic of China. The Australian Government supported the admission of that country to the United Nations. Members of the Australian Government have now visited that country and have established very important, new principles so far as Australia is concerned. What are those important principles? Firstly, it has been established that the Australian Government will pursue an independent foreign policy in relation to China, Japan and the whole of the Asian region. These are new departures. They are being applauded by the average Australian. They are departures from the previous inept policies followed by the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. After all, they have based the whole of their foreign policy for the last 23 years on the basis of: 'Have gun; will travel'. Our Government, the new Government which is concerning itself with relationships between all countries travels for the purpose of establishing relationships which are based on peaceful co-existence. We heard the statements made by  Senator Greenwood  who can best be described as the unofficial leader of the Opposition parties in this place. He gave another long-winded statement on the attitude of the Opposition to the important countries which have been visited by the Prime Minister in the last 10 days. 
In 1949 the people's liberation army succeeded in affecting a change in government in the land mass of China. Anybody who has had the opportunity to visit that country in the intervening 24 years cannot but be impressed with its growth, with the endeavours of the new Government to bring China into the 20th century and to eradicate the remains of feudalism which was characteristic of that country, to establish a uniform government and to try to establish a relationship based on co-existence with other countries. Unfortunately this country was living in an atmosphere of fear. Supporters of the previous Government who now form the Opposition parties- that is the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party- sought to isolate us from that very important evolution which was taking place in the largest country in Asia. 
It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that in 1971 when he was Leader of the Opposition he took the important initiative of visiting China and of establishing some connections with this important country. Of course, as it turned out he took the initiative only a few short months before that taken by  President  Nixon. One would imagine when listening to  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  that they have not heard of moves for a detente which have been initiated by the American  President.  Maybe the American  President  is now so discredited that even the Opposition parties in this country do not want to refer to the important steps which he took to break down the barriers which had been built up in the cold war years. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that a number of companies which submitted applications to the Prices Justification Tribunal for a price increase in their commodities have withdrawn their applications because they became aware that there would be a public examination of their price item fixing structure, their profitability and their efficiency? Was one of the bodies concerned the Dairy Industry Council which sought a  5  per cent increase in wholesale butter prices? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Prices Justification Tribunal is now beginning to exercise an important restraint on price rises and  that it  has developed as a major tool in the Government's light against inflation? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of his Federal responsibilities in the field of law and order, I ask the following question: Is it a fact that pistol licences have been issued to the following people associated with major illegal gambling clubs in Sydney:  Mr Eric  Farrell,  Mr Perc.  Galea and  Mr Don.  Lee, operators of the Forbes Club; a  Mr John  Williams, an employee of the 33 Club; and a  Mr George  Walker an employee of the Goulburn Club? Is it a fact that the issue of pistol licences is regarded by law enforcement authorities as a matter of great importance and that often even the most reputable businessmen, who have strong reasons for carrying a pistol, have been refused licences? If so, can the AttorneyGeneral make inquiries, through his New South Wales counterpart as to why operators and employees of illegal gambling clubs are issued pistol licences? Can the Attorney-General find out whether these pistol licences were issued before  Sir Robert  Askin relinquished his position as Minister in charge of the New South Wales police force? If so, is there any basis for suggestions that special representations have been made to assist these men to obtain pistol licences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government decided to require all Embassies to pay rates on properties in Canberra in an endeavour to bolster the City's municipal budget. 
Will the Government give consideration to extending the important principle, viz., that rates should be paid on all properties, by agreeing that rates be paid on all Australian Government properties to local authorities, thus rectifying a serious grievance now existing between them. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen advertisements in the Sydney Press, authorised by the Liberal Party of Australia, suggesting a large increase in the Australian Public Service was irresponsible and inflationary. Has the Minister read the booklet 'Compendium of the Australian Public Service' which lists the growth of the Public Service since Federation? Does this booklet show that in 1965-66 the increase in the Australian Public Service was 9,526; in 1967-68 it was 10,555, in 1969-70 it was 12,132 and in the current year it was 9,996 as at 30 June 1973? Is this official publication correct? If so, does the Minister concede that the advertisements are not only improper but also misleading, and that the Government has to expand the Public Service to carry out its mandate given in 1972 in many new areas of public activity? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is a security check. 
Are security checks carried out by particular officers of the Attorney-General's Department, the Public Service Board or the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, or all three. 
To what extent does a document headed 'Personal Particulars Form ' form part of any security checking procedure. 
To whom are these so-called checks referred for clearance. 
Is the final clearance made by Departmental officials, the Public Service Board, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation ora Minister of the Crown. 
6 ) If the ' Personal Particulars Form ' is part of any so-called security check, what is done with this form and who handles it after it has been filled out by a Ministerial staff member. 
Under the authority of what Act of the Parliament are these checks carried out. 
Are these so-called checks, when completed, communicated to the Governments of any foreign countries. 
How many people on previous Ministerial staffs were not cleared for security purposes. 
10) To what extent do Ministerial staff members under present or proposed legislation have access to information gathered about them during the course of a security clearance. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to current criticism of the Government's purchase of the painting 'Blue Poles'. Is it a fact that the previous Government paid out substantial taxpayers' funds in the form of subsidies and concessions to the Barton group of companies? Has the failure of those companies fleeced Australian taxpayers of considerable sums of money? Can the Minister say whether the moneys given to the Barton group exceeded the cost of the painting which art experts believe is appreciating in money terms and therefore represents a considerable capital investment as against a complete loss by the previous Liberal Government? 
The Senate will be aware that there has been considerable public disquiet in New South Wales about the collapse of the Barton group of companies. I wish to raise a matter of the utmost gravity- a matter which can only be described as one of the greatest political scandals of the century in this country. The allegation has been made that the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr Ken  McCaw, personally intervened to stop the investigation and prosecution of Alexander Barton and Thomas Barton who have been responsible for the loss of almost $2 5 m by the public of Australia. These 2 master swindlers have been protected by the Attorney-General of New South Wales- the Minister charged with upholding the law in that State. 
The investigation officer of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales is prepared to go before a public inquiry or royal commission and say that because he had ample evidence that they had been guilty of fraud and misrepresentation he contacted the Bartons solicitors, McCaw, Johnson and Company and told them he wanted to interview the Bartons. Almost immediately, the investigating officer says, he was summoned to the office of the New South Wales Attorney-General and told by  Mr McCaw  that he, McCaw, did not want him to proceed any further with the investigation of the Bartons. 
There is only one possible explanation of how the New South Wales Attorney-General could have know of this request. He must have been contacted by a member of his former legal firm and asked to intervene to protect the Bartons. The Corporate Affairs officer rejected this approach by  Mr McCaw  and told the New South Wales Attorney-General: 'If you want me to drop this investigation you will have to instruct me in writing'. The next day the investigating officer was told by a superior officer in the department that he was being taken off the investigation. He was taken off it immediately. He later checked departmental files and discovered that no further action had been taken on this investigation of the Bartons. The officer says he was preparing a recommendation that prosecutions be launched against the 2 Bartons and the company's secretary when he was taken off the case. 
This is the most flagrant case of political protection of malpractice yet to surface in this country. There can be no doubt that had this prosecution been launched the public would have been warned and at least some of the funds invested in the Barton companies would have been saved by the public. Instead the Bartons were allowed to continue their giant swindle and later to skip the country. This is a matter which must be fully and properly probed. This Parliament has power over corporations. It has a Select Committee on Securities and Exchange inquiring into malpractices. I call for a similar Senate committee to inquire into this scandal. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports suggesting that the Prices Justification Tribunal is receiving applications for price increases from companies which are insisting that their applications be dealt with on a confidential basis? Is this in accordance with the provisions of the legislation? If not, what action can the Parliament take to ensure that all such applications are open to public examination so that companies can justify their applications for price increases? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen large scale television manufacturers' advertisements claiming that their industry was in danger of losing its independence to foreign influence? This is related to the colour television controversy. Did the Minister note that the advertisements were authorised by the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia),  His  Master's Voice, General Electric, Healing, Kriesler, National, Philips, Pye and Thorn companies? Is the Minister aware that HMV- Healing is two-thirds owned by overseas interests; that General Electric is 80 per cent owned by United States interests; that Kriesler, Philips and Pye are substantially owned by Philips of Holland; that Thorn is wholly owned by United Kingdom interests; that National is wholly owned by Japanese interests; and that only AWA is Australian controlled? In the circumstances, will the Minister examine these advertisements and advise whether the Commonwealth has any power to control or remedy misleading advertisements? Does the Government permit all such advertisements to be tax deductible? What remedy lies with the Australian people against excessive and often misleading advertisements? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Recently I asked the Attorney-General about the problems of confidential submissions being made to the Prices Justification Tribunal and whether there were any deficiencies in the Act in relation to such matters. I ask: Has he had an opportunity to examine the question I raised several days ago? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that representatives from 31 countries are demanding that the United Nations restore to the Royal Government of the National Union of Cambodia, headed by Prince 
Sihanouk, its lawful rights and recognition as the legitimate government of that country? Is it a fact that the Royal Government exercises control of 90 per cent of Cambodian national territory and 80 per cent of the peoples of that country? Is the Minister able to say whether the moves have the support of all the nations that attended the Fourth Conference of the Heads of State or Government of non-aligned countries held in Algiers in September 1 973? Can the Minister say also whether Australia is considering supporting the resolution currently before the United Nations? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that a considerable number of professional lobbyists have descended upon parliamentarians in recent years suggesting, persuading and influencing decisions of the Parliament? Has the Government given any consideration to the compilation of a register of all professional lobbyists and making public the names of such lobbyists, which action would be similar to the action which the United States Congress had to take to publicise the work of all full time lobbyists? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the report on meat prices by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. Is the Minister concerned that, although saleyard prices for cattle have dropped, there has been no reduction in the price of meat to consumers? Is there any way in which this situation can be rectified? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that Amnesty International has published a report which suggests that there are 1 18,000 political prisoners in South Vietnam? Is the Minister aware that 17 Canadian members of Parliament and senators representing the 3 major parties in Canada- the Conservatives, the Liberals, and the New Democrats who are equivalent to the Australian Labor Party- have asked the Canadian Government to support a motion in the United Nations calling for humane treatment for and the ending of the torturing of and other indignities against all political prisoners in South Vietnam? Will the Australian Goverment give sympathetic consideration to this move and indicate its acceptance of the general principle that all political prisoners should be properly treated and that steps should be taken to expedite their early release to enable them to participate in the political life of their country? 
I do not intend to weary the Senate to any great extent. I leave that chore to  Senator Webster  who, of course, performs in such a way in this chamber on every other day and who has endeavoured to waste the time of the Senate for half an hour tonight by raising 2 obtuse matters in the adjournment debate. During that time not one member of his own Party- the Australian Country Party- was present in the chamber. Only one member of the Liberal Party of Australia was present. He finally succeeded in driving out even the 4 members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
It goes without saying that the honourable senator is not able to assess what has been said over a period of time by  Senator McLaren  nor is he able to assess what I said when I made my statement on a previous motion for the adjournment of the Senate- only the second time that I have spoken on that motion during my 2.5 years in this place. On that occasion I set out to bring before the people of New South Wales a very serious statement of the situation which in no way has been negated by the very specious and superficial way in which  Senator Webster  has endeavoured to deal with the situation this evening.  Senator Webster,  of course, has based the whole of his case on a statutory declaration which may or may not be true and which may or may not have appeared in full or in part in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of this morning. He is taking it for granted that that is the only statutory declaration. Of course, he does not know all of the circumstances that led to the publication of that statutory declaration. 
I want to assure the honourable senators who have read page 1 of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of this morning that  Mr McCaw  threatened the newspapers of New South Wales about their publishing of the statutory declaration, as indeed he threatened  Mr Pengelly  for daring to make any statement in respect of the serious allegations that  Mr Pengelly  made to me and others in New South Wales about the Barton scandal. It has to be said- the 'Sydney Morning Herald' says it on page 1 of this morning's issue- that 55 companies with which the Barton family was associated in New South Wales have collapsed and $2 5 m of money invested by the public has been lost. The self-same family has skipped the country. It has been indicated in Press reports that the family does not intend to come back to this country to face the music. Of course it is pretty clear that  Mr McCaw  does not intend to take any steps to have a full inquiry into this matter. 
What has happened as far as  Mr McCaw  is concerned? Has he denied any of the statements that I have made? Has he denied any of the statements that  Mr Pengelly  has made? No. He has relied upon one of the officers of the Corporate Affairs Commission to get him off the hook. He has made certain statements, but in no way have they negated what I have said in this place nor what  Mr Pengelly  has said. It has been reported  -Senator webster  should take this into considerationthat  Mr McCaw  is said to have claimed that he summoned no officer to his office. Despite  Senator Webster's  attempts to malign my character in relation to this matter, that question has been very adequately covered in the statutory declaration by  Mr Pengelly  who said that when he found irregularities associated with the Barton companies he went to McCaw Johnson and Co., solicitors, and that subsequent to the visit to that company he was summoned to the office of the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral. I point out to  Senator Webster  that that has not been denied. Yet  Mr McCaw,  according to a newspaper report, has said that he summoned no officer to his office. There is a clear area of grave contradiction in this matter.  Mr McCaw  has not answered, nor has  Mr Ryan  answered, the very serious charge that  Mr Pengelly  has made in the statutory declaration, and this is that section 40 sub-section 5 of the Companies Act of New South Wales was breached by the companies associated with the Barton family. So, in the circumstances, I do not intend to apologise to  Mr McCaw  and I certainly do not intend to apologise to  Senator Webster  or to this Senate. 
I hope that the matters will be carried forward, either in this place or in the New South Wales Parliament, until the whole sordid story of the collapse of the Barton companies in New South Wales and the loss of millions of dollars of people's money in those companies is finally aired and the people of New South Wales are given an opportunity to know all the circumstances associated with this problem. I feel that much more will be said before all this is properly aired. I hope that the time will come when I will be calling upon  Senator Webster  to support in this place a proposition for a proper inquiry into the whole Barton affair, including the collapse of the companies and  Mr McCaw  's participation in acting as he did, without any contradication, in calling an officer of his Department to his office to discuss this very serious matter in his Department while he was the Attorney-General in New South Wales. So, in these circumstances, I do not feel that I am under any attack. I feel that I acted properly. I think this is the place to bring the matter before the public generally.  Mr McCaw  threatened to sue the newspapers and threatened to sue  Mr Pengelly.  It was not until papers were tabled in the New South Wales Parliament yesterday that the newspapers were able to make any further comment on this matter. In these circumstances, I think the sooner there is a public inquiry into all the facets of the Barton case in New South Wales the better it will be for the public of New South Wales. 
( New South Wales)-I present the report of the Joint Committee on Prices on the price of meatmeal. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the publication 'Australian Health Insurance Program- The Plain Facts' issued by the Community Hospitals Association? Is the Minister aware that the Association has used the format of an official Government publication, yet the purpose of the pamphlet is to attack the Government's health scheme? Does he agree that this is a breach of ethics and contravenes normal business practice and, if continued, could cause confusion in the community? Has the Government given any consideration to having copyright placed on all Government publications with the right of republication subject to Government approval? 
I intend to devote my time in this debate to discussing the continuing and ever increasing interference with Government legislation in this chamber. I think that 1973 undoubtedly will be regarded as one of the blackest years in the history of the Senate because, of the 250-odd Bills which have been passed by the House of Representatives, something like one-sixth have been deferred, delayed, amended or rejected by the Senate. I believe that this is a negation of the popular mandate that was given to the Australian Labor Party at the election a year ago. It is worth looking at what happened on 2 December when the Australian Labor Party, for the first time in 23 years, received 49.5 per cent of the vote, compared with the very poor showing of the Opposition parties. The Liberal Party received only 32 per cent of the vote, the Country Party 9.4 per cent and the Democratic Labor Party 5.25 per cent. Since that time we have seen a reaction in this chamber by those who were defeated in 1972 but who believe that they are chosen to rule. They undoubtedly have developed quite neurotic tendencies in an endeavour to frustrate the popular will of the electorate. 
I believe that Opposition senators have chosen to abuse one of the safeguards planned by the founders of our Constitution. It certainly was never intended that the Senate be used to obstruct the legislative program of a recently popularly elected government. Of course, I am in good company in saying this because  Senator Wright,  in his dissenting report associated with the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959, said, when speaking of proposals to amend the constitution of the Senate: 
It is not the constitution of the Senate which needs reform. It is the abuses in its party management which should be corrected. 
That is precisely the view that we take. What we have seen taking place in this chamber in recent times is to the discredit of the honourable senators who make up the Opposition parties. For the last 23 years the parties which formed the previous Government made great play after each general election of the fact that they had received a clear mandate to carry out any proposal included in their policy statements. Yet we are now faced with a situation in which they defiantly reject significant pieces of the Government's legislative program which were spelt out in the Government's pre-election policy statement. 
I refer Opposition senators and the people of Australia to what was said by the GovernorGeneral in this chamber when he opened the Parliament on Tuesday, 27 February. He said: 
Following the clear decision of the people of Australia at the elections for the House of Representatives on 2 December 1972 and acting upon advice, I commissioned the Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to form a new Government on 5 December 1972. My new advisers have proceeded with all possible speed to act upon the mandate for change which they are firmly convinced was bestowed upon them by the people of Australia in the House of Representatives elections. My advisers will now ask this Parliament- 
I interpolate that that includes this Senate- itself the fundamental means by which the will of the people can be expressed- to pass legislation embodying the central parts of the program which the people have instructed them to implement. 
It is ironically significant that the founder of the Liberal Party and the Prime Minister for most of its existence- I refer, of course, to  Sir Robert  Menzies- chose to write an article for the Sydney Daily Telegraph' on 1 1 March 1968.I am sure that some of the older Opposition senators will remember it well. No doubt they were all loyally nodding approval at the time the article was written. These are some of the things that the Prime Minister of the day had to say: 
What are the true purpose and proper functions of the Senate? Should it really exercise its undoubted powers in such a way as to control or frustrate the policies of a government with a popular majority and mandate in the House? 
He went on to say: 
It would be a falsification of democracy if, on any matter of government policy approved by the House of Representatives, possibly by a large majority- 
I submit that that is precisely what has happened the Senate, representing the States and not the people, could reverse the decision. 
He went on to say:  a Senate opposition whose party had just been completely defeated at a general election, would be in command of the Government of the nation. 
That would be the result if the defeated Opposition continued to carry out its rejections of Government policy.  Sir Robert  went on to say in his article: 
This would be absurd, as a denial of popular democracy. 

 Sir Robert said that the purpose of his article was to examine the powers and the authority of the Australian Senate. He went on to say: 
This is an important and topical matter, for in the new Senate- 
He was referring to the Senate which was elected in 1967- the Government will not have a majority in its own right, though it was, little more than a year ago, given by popular vote, a very large majority in the House of Representatives; a majority which, in the normal course, it will continue to have for the better part of the next 2 years. 
I have had prepared a list of the Bills which have been before this chamber and which have been emasculated in one way or another. In other words, they have been amended, deferred, postponed or defeated, depending upon the terminology of the relevant resolution and the majority view of the day. It is an alarming state of affairs that something like 46 Bills fall into this category. At the time when I took out these figures- it was on 21 November 1973, which is just 3 weeks ago- 8 Bills had been defeated, 5 Bills had been deferred and 12 Bills had been amended. Those figures have now increased to 11 Bills defeated, 7 Bills deferred, including the Bill which was deferred today, and 25 Bills amended. 
I put it to honourable senators that in our policy speech and in the speech of the GovernorGeneral at the opening of the Parliament there were laid down the fundamental cornerstones of the Labor Party program which was placed before the electors at the 1972 Federal election. I will not weary the Senate by reading various quotations from both the Labor Party policy speech and the Governor-General's speech. But let me say that Bills on education, on workers' compensation- and, it is contemplated, on national insurance, on the right of access to the Australian Loan Council by local authorities, on matters affecting inflation, on referendums- the present Prime Minister and the GovernorGeneral indicated three or four matters which were to go before the Australian people by way of referendum proposals- on the Australian Industries Development Corporation and on industrial matters, all of which could be regarded as cornerstones of the Government's policies, have in one way or another been put aside, amended, rejected or deferred. Some Bills have even been referred to Senate Standing Committees for further examination. Honourable senators have done this knowing full well that after this long and arduous year there is very little likelihood that many of the Senate committees will have an opportunity to consider the matters that have been referred to them before the Senate reassembles in February or March next year.  Sir Robert  Menzies, after setting out and explaining the powers of the Senate, went on to comment: 
In the end result, the Senate has a full power of rejecting any Bill. 
This means that if a Government with a clear majority in the House of Representatives presented its Budget to Parliament, and then brought into the House of Representatives financial measures to give effect to that Budget, and had them passed by the House and sent up to the Senate, a hostile Senate could legally reject them. 
This, of course, would create an impossible situation, and would make popular government unworkable. 
I do not think that it is the role of the Senate to frustrate the Government and this will of the people and to conduct a filibuster-and that is what the Senate has done on a great number of the Bills before the Parliament. The Government has been placed in a very invidious position. In the months that lie ahead the Australian people will have to take into very serious consideration the fact that after 23 years in government the present Opposition Parties, which were defeated at the polls, have taken advantage of a temporary situation that exists in this chamber.  Sir Robert  Menzies said that nobody with a temporary majority in this chamber should take advantage of that situation in order to frustrate the Government. I do not think that anyone can say that the Government has not been energetic in carrying out its mandate. The Government has introduced a great number of Bills. It is true that this program has wearied even Government members and I am sure that it has wearied members of the Opposition. But in the flush of victory and following the terms of the GovernorGeneral 's speech the Government acted in order to bring about the radical change in our society which the Austraiian people sought when they elected the Labor Government just over a year ago. The Government has, with a whole variety of economic and other issues, taken equally energetic steps outside the parliamentary arena. Currency revaluation, the tariff cuts, the establishment of the Joint Committee on Prices and the Trade Practices Tribunal have been endeavours to play some part in curbing the advance of inflation which is so much a problem in the Western world today. 
It is a matter of regret that the Government was unable to carry out its referendum proposals by having the Senate deal with a number of these matters when they came before us in the middle part of this Budget session. The Labor Government was forced to put matters to the electorate as a result of arrangements that had been made. A great deal more could be said about the Bills that have been emasculated in the Senate. So many of the actions of the Opposition have had the effect of completely obstructing the will of the Government and of harassing the Government in its endeavours to bring about the essential changes in our society. Having regard to the great number of Bills that are still before the Senate, it would appear likely that a number of them will even be set aside at the conclusion of this week's deliberations. I rise to make the point that I do not believe the Senate is acting properly or maturely. I think it is taking advantage of a temporary situation and not giving the Government a go in regard to its legislative program. I hope that when we come back in the new year the Senate will reflect upon the capricious way in which it has dealt with these bills and that honourable members opposite will wake up to themselves and take a more responsible attitude in respect to the Government's legislation. 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations relating to its inquiry into the imposition of death duties in Australia 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Sydney City Council has expressed concern about the future of the Garden Island dockyard area and its continuing location close to the city with the resultant environmental effects? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Hasthe Minister seen a Press report that Commonwealth Police have impounded the boats and equipment of Pacific Seaweed Pty Ltd off Jervis Bay because the company was harvesting seaweed without a fishing licence? Is it a fact that the company disputes that it is fishing and claims that it faces the loss of a $30,000 investment and that 14 workers face unemployment. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports suggesting that processed and tinned pet foods are badly lacking in nourishment and belie the promotional data shown on the labels. Is the Attorney-General aware that the contents are alleged to contain between 63 per cent and 79 per cent of water, are too low in carbohydrates and lack sufficient salt and calcium and that the essential vitamins in the can are lost in the sterilisation processes? As these food products, which are manufactured in various States and are marketed all over Australia, are claimed to represent a complete diet for dogs and cats, can the Attorney-General say what steps the Australian Government can take to see that they meet the requirements of a full diet, as suggested on the labelled article? 
I desire to ask a question about the Literature Board. I am not sure whether the question should be addressed to the Minister for the Media or to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. What is the role of the Literature Board? Is the Minister able to indicate what Commonwealth funds have been made available to the Board? Is he aware of the number of novels approved by the Board in 1974? Are these novels to be published by the usual commercial printing and publishing houses, or will the Board give preference to nonprofit making publishing bodies? Will the Minister take steps to make available the names of the recipients of moneys allocated by the Literature Board? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Australian Government aware of the strong criticism in Queensland arising from the refusal of insurance companies to meet any reasonable claim for damages following the disastrous floods in Queensland earlier this year? Will the Minister examine the relevant clauses of the major insurance companies' policies to see whether the same injustice will occur in northern New South Wales following the extensive floods now causing hardship to thousands of citizens there? Is the Australian Government able to intervene in these matters with a view to compelling these giant financial corporations to meet their moral and financial responsibilities in national disasters? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows the question asked of him by my colleague  Senator Primmer.  Is the Minister aware that considerable evidence was placed before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Meat Prices that the overseas demand for meat exports was the contributory factor in high meat prices in 1973? Is the Minister able to say whether there has been a considerable drop in overseas demand for Australian meat and that now more meat is available for the domestic market? Will the Minister institute an inquiry into the continued high price of meat in the retail market and the reasons why consumers are not benefiting from the present export position? 
The Senate is debating a series of Bills that are designed to give the Australian people an opportunity to express an opinion in respect of a number of matters which were dealt with by the House of Representatives during 1973. They relate to promises which were given in the policy speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the election campaign of 1972 when he was Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. Each of the proposed referenda questions was referred to in the policy speech. In case anyone has any doubts about that I shall refer to what was said in respect of the matter that is currently before this chamber. On page 6 of the policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
We will give local government full access to the Loan Council and Grants Commission . . . 
On every occasion on which the Senate has dealt with matters relating to referenda we have had conjured up in this House by the wild thinking of Opposition senators bogus suggestions of all sorts of dire consequences to the people of Australia if the Constitution is amended. 
Government senators have been chided by  Senator Greenwood  on numerous occasions that we do not propose to debate these important matters. The fact is that it does not matter whether we debate them because the temporary majority that exists in this chamber has already made up its mind that it is going to deny to the people of Australia the opportunity of expressing an opinion on matters that were clearly placed before them and supported by their majority vote in 1 972. It is argued by the Government that the mere adoption of these propositions by the House of Representatives and by this place does not in any way commit either House of the Parliament to the issues in question as they would automatically go forward in a referendum form to the Australian people. The Government has been chided by  Senator Greenwood  and other Opposition senators for not wasting the time of this Parliament by endeavouring to convince the Australian people about the merits of its arguments and policies. The Government will take the opportunity when the date for the holding of these referenda is set to explain to the Australian people the reasons why it believes these important changes should take place. 
What is involved here is an attempt to change the Constitution as it relates to financial arrangements by giving local government direct access to the Loan Council, acting in concert with the States and the Australian Government. This, it has been suggested by the speakers for the Opposition, represents some form of conspiracy, some endeavour to reduce the powers of local government and to create some new situation with respect to local government and its access to the Loan Council. The Labor Party is very deeply committed to strengthening the whole structure of local government and has been able to convince the local government bodies throughout Australia of its motivations in this respect. It is sheer fantasy and wishful thinking on the part of Opposition speakers to suggest otherwise. Not one responsible local government personality in Australia has made any public statements other than in support of the general line that the Government is taking of giving greater access to local government to Commonwealth funds, through either the Grants Commission or the Loan Council. I take as my authority the New South Wales representative on the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, which is the national body concerned with the affairs of local government in this country. It consists of a representative of each of the State branches of the local government associations. One of the New South Wales delegates who is a former  president  of the local Government Association of New South Wales- an independent member who, however, in the majority of cases supports the Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales-  Mr Harold  Coates, said in Hobart in November last: 
Local government has been battling a long time Tor assistance, and for the first time the Commonwealth has come to the party. It should be a backward step if local government did not show support for the Commonwealth in what it was trying to do. 
I spent 15 years in local government, during which I toured Queensland and other States. I can assure honourable senators that local government authorities throughout Australia all regard the moves which this Government is making as a means of alleviating the financial problems of local government in their States as useful and helpful. It is an historical fact that every Prime Minister since 1949 was visited every 2 years by representatives of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the purpose of getting some financial assistance for local government and recognition of the need to apply Commonwealth funds to augment rates in order to carry out their public works responsibilities. And the fact is that every Prime Minister except the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  refused to give local government access to Commonwealth funds. The previous Prime Minister, 

 Mr McMahon, only some 18 months ago actually refused to meet a deputation from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations to discuss the very question which we are now debating in this House. 
On the second occasion  Mr McMahon  did accede to a request to meet the deputation- but it was the same story of refusing to meet any of the financial demands that were being made upon the Commonwealth by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. Last year the Australian Government introduced a scheme to widen the powers of the Grants Commission. I think that even the former Premier of Queensland will agree with me that the whole purpose of the Commonwealth Grants Commission over the years was to bring about a certain equality in the distribution of Commonwealth funds to those States which can be described as claimant States. That has been largely a successful arrangement, though not always to the satisfaction of the claimant States. That very principle was of course the cornerstone of the scheme introduced last year to enable the Grants Commission to assist local government. So we have carried out what we said we would do as shown at page 22 of the Prime Minister's policy speech. I quote: 
We will require the Commonwealth Grants Commission to promote equality between regions, as it has been traditionally promoted between the States. 
We are now debating the proposition that this financial assistance should be extended to grant access to the Loan Council. I think that honourable senators ought to look at the problems which are besetting the States and local government when they talk about financial arrangements and better deals for these bodies. The Commonwealth, as we have said many times in this place- it has been said by both Opposition and Government speakers though, I think, mainly by Government speakers- is very concerned about the very favourable indebtedness position of the Commonwealth, the very deteriorating position that exists in the States and the very alarming position of loan indebtedness in local and semi-government authorities. In the period from 1949 to 1970 Commonwealth debts increased by only 5.4 per cent, State debts by 323 per cent and local and semi-government by 845 per cent. It might be argued therefore that we should not allow local government access to the Loan Council. The fact is, of course, that many semi-government and large local government bodies which have had access to Loan Council funds find that their revenue is now considerably affected by the degree of their indebtedness. The Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works allocate about 55 per cent of their rate income to repayments on loans. Again because of the restrictive financial policy pursued by the Commonwealth in this whole area of public sector expenditure in the post-war years we had the ludicrous situation in all States of the Commonwealth that every local government body was restricted to a borrowing of only $200,000 irrespective of its size. That was subsequentlyabout 7 years ago- raised to $300,000 and is currently $400,000. However, that increase only covers inflationary effects and in no way represents any sort of sizeable recognition of the financial plight that exists in local government. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman had a great deal to say on this subject. He said that if this Senate, firstly, and, subsequently, the Australian people are persuaded to change the Constitution this will change local government bodies and the structure of local government. Who does  Senator Drake-Brockman  think that he is fooling? How can any constitutional change which seeks only to affect access to loan funds change the structure of local government bodies? The honourable senator went on to say that these local government instrumentalities that exist in all States are in fact creations of the States themselves. It is just not true to say that the Labor Government is in any way concerned with altering the structure of local government. We want to extend the role of local government. We do not want to restrict it but to make it even more powerful. If local government gets funds through the Grants Commission, which will be an equalising grant, and can get unrestricted access to carry out some of its major responsibilities then of course it will be a much more viable organisation. There is no doubt that the restriction on public sector expenditure over many years has had a very disastrous effect on the quality of life and the facilities of the ordinary people out in the various localities. 
I find nothing unusual in the 2 questions about which  Senator Greenwood  spoke somewhat hysterically. He was followed, perhaps in more measured terms, by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  But both senators indicated that there is something sinister about the Commonwealth's suggesting that when it makes funds available this should be done at the terms and conditions that the Government thinks fit. After all, these are matters coming before the lower House and before the Senate to be amended, rejected or in some way improved if they are not up to the thinking of the majority of members of either of the Houses of Parliament. I see nothing different from what the States have done over the years. I am sure that  Senator Gair  will agree with me that this practice of putting terms and conditions upon loans has been followed by the Commonwealth since Federation. One has only to read the report of the Grants Commission to see that terms and conditions have been supplied in respect to additional moneys that have been made available. The State governments themselves, in their unanimous representations to the Commonwealth in 1965, were very critical of the Commonwealth's endeavours to put terms and conditions on the funds that were made available to the States for their public works responsibilities. So there has been a united front on these questions by the State governments. But the position has been accepted nevertheless because the Commonwealth has taken the view that Commonwealth funds are involved and the Commonwealth intends, therefore, to place some conditions on how this money can be spent. There is nothing new about that, and there is nothing wrong about that. For instance, if an ex gratia payment were to be made to some local government body it may decide to build an olympic swimming pool for the prestige of those who happen to be running the council at that particular time, whereas there may be need for a better road system, for the establishment of a library or for some such thing in order to bring about equalisation of facilities in a particular municipality. Can any honourable senator show me any statement that any of the councils on the outer suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne have been complaining about the $ 15m that has been made available to them already as part of our equalisation program? In fact, this provision of funds has been hailed as a major breakthrough and as a big step forward in endeavouring to catch up with the backlog of public works responsibilities in those areas. Only this week the councils on the north shore of Sydney- let me say that there are no Labor Party councils in that area; those councils represent people on middle class and above middle class incomes- submitted a claim to the Commonwealth to the tune of $141m. There was no criticism about the Commonwealth; they merely put out their hand for the sorts of funds which they say are needed to bring some equality of public facilities in those regions. Let me say that those regions are far superior to the great majority of local government areas throughout New South Wales. In other words, -they are regions that were developed earlier than were many other parts of Sydney. 
They are regions in which the rate structure has enabled the councils to collect funds more readily than they have been able to in the new working class areas in the outer suburbs of Sydney. Yet those councils have seen fit, despite their political complexion, to ask the Commonwealth to make available this tremendous sum of money. Probably, the amount requested exceeds what the Government is giving to Tasmania during the current year. 

 - Senator Wright asks me what would be the total claim. I do not know. But I would say that thousands of millions of dollars could be spent in local government areas throughout Australia to bring them up to the required standard. Surely this is the challenge that the Whitlam Government has accepted in its desire to bring about an equality of public facilities between the various regions. We are taking steps to do precisely this. One of the ways to do it is through the Grants Commission. This is now law. Let us face the position. That body is less than a year old and the officers have been appointed. The bureaucrats we heard so much about in this chamber are now examining the establishment of the regions and examining the claims of those local government bodies throughout Australia that have come together spontaneously for the purpose of considering a problem common to their regions. The Commonwealth is quite right to adopt this attitude because there would be countless regions throughout Australia to which it would not want to give money at this stage of the development to a particular local government council but to a group of councils to carry out say, a major drainage scheme, a major road scheme or to be used or for the establishment of a community facility such as an olympic swimming pool or a library which would be shared not by the people in one municipality but by the people living in a particular region. I want to draw attention to the fact that local government has been campaigning since the end of World War II in regard to the 2 questions that are in the process of being implemented by this Government. For many years they have had to fight against the parochial attitude of the State Ministers for local government. Honourable senators should be aware that it was not until 1963 that the State Ministers for local government for the first time agreed at a conference, again held in Tasmania, to make a united representation to the Commonwealth 
Government. The Ministers for local government from the 6 States had met for many years but there was always a disagreement about the degree of responsibility in regard to Commonwealth funds. For the first time in 1963 those Ministers- Labor Party, Liberal Party and Country Party Ministers- meeting in Hobart agreed that the time had arrived for Ministers for Local Government to make a joint submission to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance. That was refused by the Commonwealth. So with all the formats and procedures that local government has had at its disposal, it had to convince the various State levels of the local government association and their respective Ministers of their claims throughout the whole of the post-war period. It was not until 1963 that unanimity was reached. It has taken another 10 years from that point of unanimity between the 6 State Ministers for Local Government before the Commonwealth involvement has been effective. That has arisen because a Labor Government was elected by the Australian people with a Prime Minister, a leader, who has consistently advocated that this should be the position. I urge honourable senators to read his speeches ever since he has been a member of the national Parliament. He was one of the first political leaders to be invited to the New South Wales Local Government Conference. He attended that Conference for the first time in about 1966 or 1967 at which he stated that a Labor Government would do just these things for the improvement of finance for local government. So we are asking the Senate to consummate the promise he made during the election campaign of 1972. 
It is in our policy and in our platform. This Bill has been through the House of Representatives on 2 occasions. It is before this obstructionist House for the second time because the Opposition has taken the view that we are not entitled to present this question properly to the Australian people for them to vote on the matter. The Opposition has taken the view that this Government has something up its sleeve whereas, in fact, it has followed a consistent policy. That policy is in tune with the needs and wishes of local government right throughout Australia. It is very interesting to find now that  Senator Greenwood, Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Mr Anthony,  the honourable member for Richmond in another place, who are no longer Ministers in a Government, have to say. I wish to quote what  Mr Anthony  said in the debate on this matter in the other place, but what he said has been repeated almost word for word by honourable senators representing the Opposition parties. He said: 
The Country Party's approach is positive and logical. We recognise the compelling nature of the problems of local government, but emphasise that financial arrangements must serve and strengthen the Constitution, not undermine it. 
What sort of poppycock is that which  Mr Anthony  speaks about and which is repeated in this House- that access by local government to local Council undermines local government. There is nobody in local government who believes that. I ask honourable senators to produce the personality who holds office in any local government association who believes that to be the case. 
Only a fortnight ago I travelled on an aeroplane with the Secretary of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations who happens also to be the Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Local Government Associations. Those associations are very happy with the Government's approach and the positive way in which the Government is endeavouring to recognise the financial plight of local governments. I served for many years on the executive of that local government association. I can assure honourable senators that they are offside with local government opinion. I was one of four or five Labor Party members who served on that executive, and I assure the Senate that in these sorts of matters there was complete unanimity, and there still is to this very day, at local government association meetings, at conferences and at councils throughout Australia. We have established commissions to deal with this matter. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has staff to do something about the problems of land prices which  Senator Little  chides us we should do something about. We set up organisations to deal with these matters and then we are criticised for establishing bureaucracies. 
Do honourable senators opposite think that computers can be organised to acquire and generally to deal with procedures and the detailed examination of the plans, thoughts and programs that are put forward? Of course a bureaucracy is needed to deal with them. This is not something that ought to be criticised. It is something that ought to be applauded. If members of this chamber would only rise out of their party political prejudices and start to examine this program in a much more positive way they would come to understand the position in much the same way as we revolutionised our thinking about the changed situation in local government. 
Until World War II local government was the preserve of the landlords. It was not the preserve of the ordinary home owner. How many people owned houses in those days? The average man rented a home, so the man in the street was not concerned with local government. In any case, the cities were much more compact. There was not the great urban sprawl. There was not the motor car problem with which we have to contend today and there were not all the pollution and other new questions with which we have to concern ourselves. In this revolutionary situation parties have to adapt. Just as honourable senators opposite were behind the times in 1971 and 1972, when their attitude caused them to lose the election, they are behind the times on this issue. 
It might well be that honourable senators opposite will convince the Australian people not to support this proposition in the referendum. It is clear that honourable senators opposite intend to raise bogies and to capitalise on people's fear of change. But the articulate people in local government are not worried about it. They cannot see how a local government council in Woollahra in Sydney, which at the moment is restricted to a loan budget of $400,000, would in any way have its structure or its authority undermined by having loan access to $lm. In fact the serving members of local governments will be very happy because they will be able to carry out their responsibilities. 
Let us look at the Constitution. It was framed 73 years ago. It was framed before motor cars, before radios, before television, before home ownership and before a whole host of other modern amenities that we have come to accept as commonplace were introduced. I say that the great change that has come over the local government scene is that the man in the street is now directly involved in local government. For heaven's sake, certainly in Sydney and Melbourne the average man in the street is now paying $3 or $4 a week to his local government authority. Local government has become a very pertinent and relevant question and yet the man in the street is still living, in the real sense of the word, in squalor as far as local government facilities are concerned. He is living in areas which could have hundreds of millions of dollars allocated to them to bring them up to an acceptable standard in the latter half of the twentieth century. I cannot conceive why honourable senators opposite adopt the stand they do unless it is just to score mean political points. I am sure that that is the motivation of some of those who have taken part in these debates. 
We are wearying of  Senator Greenwood's  consistent endeavours to whip up a bogey and to chide the Government because its members are not constantly on their feet following every Opposition  speaker.  We wish to have the matter resolved. The Opposition has made its position clear. We know the Opposition has the numbers. We know its members have made up their minds. No matter what arguments we produce they will not change their opinion. Do honourable senators opposite wish to degrade even further the whole parliamentary process by our just talking our heads off for the sake of talking. We are quite happy for the Opposition to make a decision on the matter because we will then go out on the hustings and tell the Australian people what we seek to do. Honourable senators should be aware that when we do go out on the hustings hundreds of people from local government bodies will be supporting- even if they do not understand all the other issues that will be placed before the Australian people- the endeavours of the Australian Labor Government to alter radically the whole financial relationships that exist between the Commonwealth, the States and local governments and semi-government bodies. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. What is the Government's attitude to the price of petroleum products in Australia? Does the Government regard the price of fuel as an integral part of the cost structure generally in Australia? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made by the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  suggesting that there should be a drastic increase in the price of oil? Will the Government reject this advice and insist on maintaining the present price of petrol in Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: In view of the concern which has been expressed in sections of the Australian community at the detention without trial of prisoners in Indonesia, particularly those arrested during the recent riots, can the Minister say whether during his visit to Indonesia last week he raised this matter with the Indonesian authorities? 
I oppose the amendment and I wish to say a few words about the attitude adopted by Opposition speakers in regard to this matter. It seems to me to be another example of procrastination and delay. It seems to me to be an endeavour to raise another bogy to convince the Australian people that no attempt should be made by any government to revise the Australian Constitution. I think it has to be said fairly that the views of the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in respect of the Constitution are well known. He has consistently adopted a policy of seeking to have transferred from the States to the Commonwealth certain powers which would enable the Commonwealth to assume greater responsibilities in the development of our country. One has only to read the reports of the committees of the Parliament which met from time to time when he was a member of the Opposition to see the consistency of his attitude in these matters. He raised his views, and the views of the Government, on this matter very strongly and convincingly at the Constitutional Convention which was held in Sydney in September last. 
I think it was a unique experience for those of us fortunate enough to be members of that Convention to find that in the great majority of the contributions at that Convention there was general agreement on the need to revise the Australian Constitution. Delegates from the States, from local government and from this National parliament expressed in one way or another a need for the Constitutional Convention or for a referendum to determine these matters. After all, the Convention itself was the product of a decision of the Victorian Parliament in a period in which the Opposition parties here occupied the government benches in this Parliament in Canberra and also in the Victorian Parliament. It does seem to me that there was a general conviction amongst wide sections of the Australian public of the need to revise the Constitution. I have to stress the fact that this Government has endeavoured to refer matters of constitutional change to the Australian people, not to make some back door arrangement, not to attempt to bypass public opinion, but rather to give the Australian people an opportunity to have a 1970 look at the Constitution, which people should know is now well over 70 years old. 
There is nothing wrong with this proposition.  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Greenwood  seemed to take the view that this Bill represents some sort of underhand move. They seem to think that the 
Government is not looking at the position squarely and that the Government has something to hide.  Senator Carrick  quite rightly drew attention to the fact that there is a reluctance on the part of the Australian people to change the Constitution. If we followed his line of reasoning through to its logical consequence, any government which seeks to do this is acting in a foolish manner and committing political hara-kiri. No government would constantly put matters before the Australian people if all the forebodings that  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Greenwood  suggested hold any water at all. 1 think the Government is acting correctly. If the people are not yet able to see the need to change the Constitution it ought to be part of their general education to have the debates in this place presented to them; then by a campaign, to try to make them understand that the responsibilities of government require that they should look at this matter in a more responsible way. 
The Prime Minister did say at that Convention that he proposed to have a referendum on the transference of powers from the Commonwealth to the States and from the States to the Commonwealth. It is interesting to note that Opposition speakers have not referred to the fact that what is involved here includes the transference of powers from the Commonwealth to the States. It is not a one-way process. Yet when one listens to the speeches of those who oppose the Bill one would imagine that all that is involved in the referendum proposals and in the Bill that is before this House is a one-way process. It is a twoway process. It is a matter on which the Parliament is being asked to adjudicate. It is a matter which the Parliament is being asked to decide; and, finaly, it is a matter which will be placed before the Australian people. Anyone who listens to the debates in this place would imagine that we were already out on the hustings campaigning for the issue. After all, the Government seeks only the opportunity to place this matter before the Austraiian people. As I said, the Prime Minister made his views on this item which we are currently debating well known at the Convention. It is certainly my impression- the other delegates can speak for themselves- that there was a fairly general agreement with this principle by the heads of the other delegations. I do not recall any of the Premiers disagreeing in principle with what the Prime Minister had to say. In fact, it is my firm recollection that on this issue there was almost unanimity of opinion. But just as it is in any organisation, it is very difficult to get complete unanimity of attitude, and some qualifications were expressed. However, there was general agreement by all Premiers- at least by those who spoke on behalf of their respective States- and by delegates from the national Parliament and those representing local government. 
I appreciate the point that has been made by some speakers that the States have a different attitude on this matter. That is why it is necessary to refer the matter to the people so that they may decide. On occasions at the Convention five of the six Premiers had an identity of attitude to certain issues, with the Premier of Queensland acting as a maverick in certain of the debates and taking a more obstinate and more difficult position than the Premiers from the other States. This inevitability of all men failing to agree on important questions meant that the Prime Minister has had to take steps to put a Bill through the House of Representatives, meeting the very strict requirements of an absolute majority of both Houses of Parliament, which is one of the safeguards in the Constitution, then have the matter go through the due processes and ultimately to be placed before the Australian people. Here, of course, there are additional safeguards because one has to get a majority of votes in respect of the States so that four out of the six States, as well as a majority of voters, must approve the proposed change. It is a rather tortuous path which those who seek to change the Constitution have to travel. It is not one on which there are no adequate safeguards both for the present and the future. One would imagine that even when all those procedures are followed the Australian people will act irresponsibly, in the view of those who have opposed these matters when they have been before the Senate. Surely as a result of the safeguards that are built into our Constitution and with the good sense of the electors there is ample opportunity for the Constitution to be protected from any act of irresponsibility. I do not suggest for one moment that there is anything irresponsible in the matters tha', have come before this place. 

 Senator Carrick has said that the Prime Minister desires to destroy the States. This is just not so. Even if he held those views, they are not necessarily the views held by the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. I have never heard the Prime Minister suggest that the States should be abolished or that all power should be centralised in Canberra. He has on occasions expressed the view that there should be a transference of some of the powers. Honourable  senators must  surely recognise that this proposal seeks the concurrence of the States to transfer powers from the States to the Commonwealth. Consider the path that must be traversed before one can get the 6 States to agree to the transference of power. Yet we have this calamity howling, this great interest for protection of democratic rights and civil liberties and so on which is always plucked out of the wardrobe when honourable senators on the other side of this place have nothing else to present in their arguments. This is from Opposition senators who, when in power, were prepared to gaol young men for their convictions about the war in Vietnam, to deny Australian citizens the right to travel outside their own country, and to implement a whole number of issues which denied the normal democratic liberties which we defend in this country and regard as an inalienable right. There is no substance in the view that the Labor Government, or the Prime Minister, is seeking to curtail democracy. The Prime Minister is seeking to extend it, and I think I have indicated that in his desire to do this he will be recognised not only by the Australian people but ultimately by historians as a person who was prepared to go to the full extent of the democratic procedures to convince the Australian electorate to change the constitutional provisions relating to powers between the Commonwealth and the States. 
We have only to examine the position of the States in their formative years to appreciate that they were six distinct and different colonies of the British Crown. They grew up with and still have different attitudes to their respective development and to the Commonwealth. It is a matter of regret that members of the Opposition, for sheer political advantage, are endeavouring on every occasion to base their arguments upon the backwardness of attitudes that exist in the various States and among sections of the Australian people who still want to regard themselves not as part of one nation but as six different nations. Surely the Prime Minister ought to be recognised as a very courageous man for taking the steps that he has taken in a period of political difficulty, in this country, seeking to effect changes in the Constitution which after all, if agreed to, must still be determined by the Australian people and which would mean only a transference to the Commonwealth of powers that already exist at the State level. 
Is it suggested that powers which now exist at the State level are misused or that those powers will be misused if held by the Commonwealth, or that the same public opinion that exists in the 6 States would suddenly disappear and not express itself if there should be any attempt to exercise wrongly those powers at the Commonwealth level? We have to be dragged into the latter half of the 20th century. That is apparent to me. Clearly we will have difficulty convincing the Australian people of the need to agree to these matters that will go before them by referendum. Nevertheless it is only right that the Government should have the opportunity to go to the Australian people and give them an opportunity to review the Constitution. I believe that in the last 20 or 30 years the States have not exercised as they should the powers they have held. That has been a period of great development in this country. The States have adopted a dog in the manger attitude in respect of a variety of matters. 
Take prices, for example. It was reported in this morning's newspapers that the New South Wales Government is prepared to sit down with the Australian Government and transfer to the Commonwealth for a limited period of time power to control prices. That was the view that was expressed at the Constitutional Convention by the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer.  It was a view that was strongly dissented from by the Queensland Premier. So honourable senators can see the absurd position in which there is no form of uniformity in price control or incomes control. Clearly these have to be dealt with on a national basis. It is clear from the decision made yesterday by the Premier of New South Wales that he is either campaigning for his own political advantage and is not sincere in his desire to hand over to the Commonwealth the powers to control prices and incomes or he genuinely holds that view and is fortified by the fact that his co.'league in Queensland will not be prepared to take the necessary step. I give that as one of the many examples of the absurd position that exists in respect of sovereign rights in this country. 
It is clear that the Senate has already made up its mind. We know that a decision in respect of these matters has already been determined in the Party room and that there is no possibility of either the Senate agreeing to the Government's propositions or a sufficient number of senators agreeing in order to give us the absolute majority which is required to pass this Bill. So we are only putting off what  Senator Withers  regards as the evil day by postponing the debate in this place. That is what he seeks to do. These are the same sort of tactics as were synonymous with the Opposition in 1973 when it refused to debate a matter in November of that year and used delaying tactics to prevent the matter being dealt with in this place. Despite the fact that it was dealt with expeditiously in the lower House, the Senate took the extraordinary step of refusing to debate the matter logically and expeditiously.  Senator Greenwood  is seeking again to delay consideration of the measure despite the fact that he knows as well as everybody else the views of the Prime Minister, the Government and the Labor Party on this matter. Honourable senators opposite should cut out the humbug and give us the opportunity to deal with the Bill. Let them defeat it if they must, but give us the opportunity to take it to the Australian people. We should have the opportunity to go out and talk to the Australian people to convince them that the time has arrived in Australia's development for updating and modernising the Australian Constitution. 
I  present the following petition from 204 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  of the Senate and Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the division of Sydney respectfully showeth that in view of the present situation in Chile, where twenty out of thirty articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are not being adhered to. 
We, the undersigned, request that the Australian Government protest in the United Nations against the widespread atrocities by the illegal military junta in Chile. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that your Honourable House will take the necessary steps to make it widely known in Chile that the Australian Government will assist and facilitate the rapid transit of all refugees to Australia. 
And. your petitioners, in duty bound, ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that there is a move for strike action among Press secretaries to Federal Ministers and Public Service journalists because of the intransigence of the Public Service Board? Has the Board failed to honour a 20-year-old practice of granting to these employees of the Australian Government an automatic flow-on of salary increases given to daily newspaper journalists? Is the Minister aware that these Australian Government journalists are to meet in Canberra this afternoon to consider the Public Service Board's action? Is it a fact that the New South Wales Government already has granted the full flow-on to State Press secretaries? Would not the Board 's current attitude constitute an embarrassment to the Australian Government and a challenge to the policies of that Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the mass arrests of leaders and supporters of the South West African Peoples' Organisation in Namibia were carried out by the South African Government under that Government's terrorism Act? Is it a fact that this Act has no valid legal application in Namibia? In view of the Australian 
Government's support of the right to independence of the people of Namibia, will the Government protest at the South African Government's arrest and detention of these people without charge? Can the Minister say whether he has heard of any protest by  Mr John  McLeay, MP about this detention of a new set of political prisoners in the world? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports that the multinational oil companies which have provoked a series of disputes with their employees in recent times and thereby disrupted industry have combined to destroy the Independent Oil Company headed by  Mr Roach?  Does the Government regard IOC as a valuable oil distributing company operating in the interest of the consumer by selling petrol at rates considerably lower than those charged by the multinational companies? Will the Minister indicate whether the Government can use its administrative powers on imports and exports to get a more responsible and reasonable attitude attuned to Australian conditions from these overseas monopolies? 
This debate has aroused a great deal of heat and hysterical rantings from Opposition senators who are endeavouring to make some political capital out of an endeavour by the Government to carry out its mandate, its policies, and to exercise the prerogative of any person involved in politics attempting to achieve the art of the possible. I make no defence of the Government's position in this matter because I believe that the immorality in the matters that we have been determining over the last several months lies not so much in the appointment of the Honourable Vincent Gair but in those 10 senators who were elected in 1967 and who have sought to sit in judgment upon a government that was elected in 1972. That is where the immorality lies. Those people who were elected in 1967 were basking in the inability of the Australian electorate to understand the real issues of the Vietnam war. But by 1972 it had become apparent to the great mass of the Australian people that that was a dirty and unwinnable war and that in fact there was a need to clear the slate as far as politicians in Australia were concerned and to elect to government a party which had consistently followed a policy of not being involved in any war in Asia. 
In the last 18 months since this Government was elected in 1 972 it has sought to implement the mandate that was given to it by the Australian people but these 10 senators have been sitting in judgment and have been attempting to nullify and to destroy the mandate that was given to the Government by the people of Australia. That is the immorality in this whole situation. This Government has been frustrated by an obstructionist Senate. The Government has sought in every way to exercise the mandate given to it by the Australian people but that mandate has been set aside, amended or rejected by a number of people whom history has passed by in terms of the political development of this country. I do not believe that what the Government did in this case is any different from the practices that have been symbolic of the Australian approach to politics or, for that matter, the approach to politics in all the Western world? If in its endeavours to obtain a majority vote in this place the Australian Government was able to persuade any member of the Parliament to accept a position, one can only conclude that the person who accepted the position knowingly and willingly made the decision in the light of all the circumstances. 
One can understand the Democratic Labor Party's concern about this because  Senator Gair  has certainly affected its position in the Australian political scene; his retirement from this place has been a very heavy blow to the Democratic Labor Party. When one hears of attempts that have been made by those who seek to have this Senate determine the issue of  Senator Gair's  retirement one would imagine that somebody in the Government Party had twisted  Senator Gair's  arm, that  Senator Gair  did not have possession of his faculties, that he would not have been able to make the decision himself, that this man who was formerly Leader of this Party had suddenly become irresponsible and incapable of making a decision affecting his future. It is a state of affairs which has, of course, created some sort of political reaction in this country. I do not intend to get involved in the legal side of the argument. It is crystal clear to me, since I have read the Constitution, that  Senator Gair  agreed to accept the appointment and that it then went through the normal and formal channels of approval; that is to say, he accepted, it was then conveyed to the authorities in Ireland, and then conveyed to the Governor-General, and he gave his formal assent to it. From that moment on  Senator Gair  remained a member of this chamber no longer. 
With respect to the  President  of this place, it seems to me that in the first instance the responsibility to determine whether  Senator Gair  was in fact a member of the Senate on Tuesday last was the responsibility of  Senator Gair  himself. I cannot understand the thinking of the Opposition senators who have suggested that  Senator Murphy  was recreant to his responsibilities, that as the Leader of a minority party in this place he had to rectify a situation. Surely the responsibility rested either with the senator who should have understood what were the constitutional requirements or certainly with the  President  of this place. With respect to that statement, 1 say that I have the utmost confidence in the  President  of this Senate. However, it seems to me that he knew that the Prime Minister had made an announcement in the other place in respect of  Senator Gair  and that then the responsibility rested with the  President,  the person in charge of this House. It was equally a matter of the responsibility of  Senator McManus,  the Leader of his Party, to question whether  Senator Gair  was entitled to be recording a vote in this chamber. To suggest that there was something improper on the part of the Government seems to me to be an untenable suggestion and one which no reasonable person could accept as capable of being believed or accepted. 
Of course, when certain members of the House became aware of some of the loopholes- I suppose that is the way one could describe the incident- a conspiracy was begun in which the Premier of Queensland, not acting honourably and in accordance with the Constitution, conspired with the Leader of the Country Party and certain persons in this place to deceive the national Parliament and to deprive the people of Queensland of an opportunity at the elections on 18 May of electing a successor to  Senator Gair.  I find that a conspiracy. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  The honourable senator reflected on a position in the Queensland Parliament, not on a parliamentarian. There is no substance in the point of order. 
I think it is fair to recall the events that took place last week. The Premier of Queensland has basked in the publicity; he has taken great credit for having created some sort of situation here in Canberra. I do not think there is any doubt that he was aided and abetted by some members of the national Parliament. I do not think there is any doubt that there was a prawn night here in which attempts were made, quite deliberately, to restrain the senator from exercising his right to regularise this whole situation. The senator concerned was probably completely befuddled by the great amount of attention paid to him by those who hitherto had been his greatest admirers and supporters. Now that they are confronted with the legal situation and with the Government's proposition to regularise the departure of  Senator Gair  from this chamberthat is, by referring the question to the High Court for consideration- all sorts of unpalatable suggestions have been made. It has been suggested that  Senator Gair  has rendered himself liable to some penalties because he has voted in this chamber. I am told that  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin placed herself in a similar position some time ago when she in fact sat here from the time she had been given her appointment and before she took up her appointment in a new place. 
There was no prawn night organised for  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. So we have a situation which is most unsatisfactory from the point of view of the Australian people, brought about by the intransigence of the Queensland Government and by attempts of members of this House and by other members of the national Parliament to try to prevent the regularising of  Senator Gair's  retirement from this place. As a layman I have always understood that ignorance of the law has never been regarded as an excuse. If I had been appointed to some government position outside the Parliament, I would have made it my responsibility I am sure that is the way all of us should review this particular matter- to ascertain whether I was sitting in this chamber properly or otherwise. I certainly would expect that those who are senior to me in the official conduct of this chamber also would take steps to see whether my position was regularised. I cannot believe that anyone in his right senses can suggest that somehow or other the Government is at fault in this whole matter. 
But, of course, one would imagine, having regard to the hysterical rantings of some of those who have spoken on this matter, that this House has suddenly become a House of review; that it is not a party House, that it is a House of politics, that it is a House which exercises its right as a tribunal free of all party taints that affect us because we happen to be politicians. What sort of a trick are we trying to play upon the Australian people? Everybody knows that the matters involved in this question are being decided in each of the party rooms; that there is no possibility of the decision being arrived at free of the political influences and prejudices which we each hold and express. We are all subject to political influences in this matter. That is why the Government 's proposition to put this question to the High Court ought to be supported. But everybody knows there is no chance of that happening. The DLP, having lost its former leader, is now prepared to decry him and pull him down from the pedestal on which it had placed him in recent years. It is so ashamed of the position it is in and so much aware of the political oblivion to which the electors are shortly going to confine it that we have no doubt about the attitude it will take. 
We have no doubt about the attitude of the Country Party because its Leader was part of the conspiracy to circumvent the will of the Government and the will of the people. The Liberal Party is prepared to make a last throw in the hope of getting electoral support. It will take any steps to try to get back into office. Let us have no illusions about what this chamber will do. Let us have no illusions about the inability of the Senate to deal with this matter in a judicial sense. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  in moving his amendment, is seeking to delay the retirement or removal of  Senator Gair  from the Senate. Is it suggested by those honourable senators who have been so vocal in this debate that  Senator Gair  is still a member of this chamber? If the letter that  Senator Gair,  or  Mr Gair-- 
Yes,  His Excellency.  If the letter that he sent to the  President  of the Senate is not a letter of resignation- that is what has been seriously suggested- he is still a member of the Senate, although some people are now trying to put another proposition.  Senator Willesee,  in answering a question, said that as from a particular date last week  Senator Gair  was considered to have been appointed to the position of Ambassador, and some people are suggesting that that has no particular relevance to the matter in question. Either  Senator Gair  is a member of the Senate or he is not. Either he has resigned or he has not. Either he is constitutionally a member of the Senate or he is not. 
Honourable senators have taken a great deal of time in pointing out that  Senator Gair  voted last Tuesday- probably in all ignorance, probably confused by the turn of events and by the hostility of his own Party.  His  Party colleagues, without any trial or notification, expelled him. He was not treated democratically or given a right of appeal. In the face of all these difficultieshe also was invited to a prawn evening in  Senator Maunsell  's office- how could it be expected that the matter would be regularised so that the people would understand what has taken place? If there is any guilty man, every member of this chamber is guilty because not one of us got to his feet to draw to the attention of the  President  that we had a stranger in the House. The colleagues of  Senator Gair,  amongst whom he formed so large a part of the situation, took no steps to advise him, their former mentor, that he was transgressing in attending in this place. 
It is quite ludicrous for the Opposition to endeavour to paint the Government in some sort of black picture. Heavens above, have they not heard of the action of Premier Askin of New South Wales? I address myself to my friends opposite who are members of the Liberal Party. Have they not heard what Premier Askin did to  Mr Abe  Landa, a former Attorney-General in the New South Wales Labor Government? Premier Askin appointed him as Agent-General in London in 1965. I am sure that my friend  Senator Carrick  would have been privy to that decision because at that time he was General Secretary of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party. How does it suddenly become immoral now that it is done federally when it was morally good and acceptable in the New South Wales political arena? Of course politics is the art of the possible and we are entitled to take every step at our disposal in order to get a majority in this place so that we can implement the mandate that was given to us by the electors in 1 972. 
-Is the Leader of the Government aware that reports say that the Opposition parties have not yet selected candidates for a number of electorates in the event of a double dissolution? Is the Minister aware that, notwithstanding this state of unpreparedness, a number of statements made by the leaders of the Liberal and Country parties claim that they have large sums of money available to fight an election? Is the Minister able to say how it is that these parties which have fought the Government's endeavours to control Australia's national resources in the public interest have access to donations from big business and multinational corporations? 
-I present an interim report from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations relating to this inquiry into Aboriginal enterprises and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator GIETZELT (New South Wales)-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The matters within this interim report were referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in December 1973. At that time there was considerable publicity centring on Aboriginal affairs. When the Committee began to make preliminary inquiries it found that there were problems associated with Aboriginal enterprises of a long standing nature which went as far back as early 1970. It was therefore not surprising that even before it was given these references there were several inquiries also being conducted into these matters. 1 would like to enumerate for the benefit of honourable senators these other inquiries: Firstly, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation into the question of farming turtles in the Torres Strait Islands; secondly, the Special Minister of State's inquiries comprising a report by a Melbourne accountant,  Mr L.  P. Smart, into the organisation and management of the turtle farming project and a joint report by 2 scientists,  Dr A.  F. Carr and Professor A. E. Main, into the ecological implications of a turtle farming project; thirdly, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts investigation into Aboriginal housing in the Northern Territory; fourthly, the Auditor-General 's inquiry into the financial and managerial aspects of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; fifthly, the Public Service Board inquiry into administrative procedures of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Four of these reports have already been tabled in Parliament and I understand that the report by the Public Accounts Committee into Aboriginal housing is to be tabled later in this session. I have also been informed that considerable progress has been made in the Public Service Board examination. Honourable senators will recall that when the Auditor-General recently tabled his report on the financial and managerial aspects of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts immediately announced that his Committee would be setting up a public inquiry into the financial administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, in fact, this inquiry is now under way. In addition, the AuditorGeneral has indicated that he will be taking follow-up action as a result of his initial findings. 
We believe that collectively all of these inquiries which have been completed and those which are currently under way will cover almost every part of both references which are before us. To proceed with a full-scale public inquiry of our own at this stage would not only lead to unnecessary duplication of effort but would also compete for the already over-taxed resources servicing these investigations. This would, in our opinion, be counter productive. Consequently we propose to postpone any active investigations into these references until we have been able to examine all reports that will emerge from these current inquiries. If on examination of these reports we feel there are any areas which have not been adequately explored we would consider conducting further inquiries of our own.  Mr President,  I wish to express my appreciation to the staff and commend its diligence and work during the preliminary stages of the Committee 's work. I commend the interim report to the Senate. 

 -Mr President, I bring up a report from the Joint Committee on Prices explaining why the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiries into certain of the matters which have been referred to it, and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware of the growing disenchantment of doctors with their industrial organisation, the Australian Medical Association? Is the Minister aware that several hundred doctors met in Sydney last Friday to establish a doctors' reform society, following the example of their colleagues in Victoria early this year? Can the Minister say whether there now is evidence that more and more doctors are supporting the Australian Government and its national health scheme designed, as it is, to give all Australians a more adequate and equitable health service? 
I should like to say a few words concerning the matter raised by  Senator Lawrie.  I think that if he would fairly examine the complaint that he has raised on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate this evening he would find that since the Parliament has reassembled Opposition senators have had more than an ample share of question time. In point of fact, if he examines the list of honourable senators who asked questions today he will see that on 2 occasions you,  Mr President,  called 2 Opposition senators consecutively and denied Government senators an opportunity to ask questions. You might recall that this happened also on the last occasion on which question time was being discussed in this place. The Government is entitled to have regard to its legislative program which has been seriously disrupted by the tactics of the Opposition over the last 18 months. The Government has the responsibility of expediting its business and of carrying out the mandate given to it on the second occasion, even if this involves a reduction in the length of question time. Opposition senators have a responsibility not to waste so much time in debate. If they accepted that responsibility we might be able to enjoy the maximum time for questions. I wanted to ask 2 questions today and I suffered the disadvantage of question time being cut short. But after all, we have expedited our business and have completed the Address-in-Reply debate. This will enable us to deal with the legislative program, the Bills which are to be placed before the Senate and which have been before the House of Representatives. They have been before the other place and this place on several occasions. The purpose of this 3-week session,  Mr President,  is to expedite the business of the Government. I do not believe that we should allow question time to continue at the expense of the Government's endeavours to administer the affairs of the Commonwealth. On this occasion we are entitled to draw to the attention of  Senator Lawrie  that Opposition senators have had more than an equal share of question time in the life of the Whitlam Government. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In the interest of open government will the Minister advise the Senate of the names, designations and recommendations of Treasury officials currently advising the Australian Government on the state of the economy? If the Minister is able to give such information, will he inform the Senate whether such advisers are the same Treasury officials as advised the previous Liberal-Country Party Government over the past decade or so and whether the advice is identical or in similar terms? 
I present the following petition from 271 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That inflation which now besets so many countries today and in Australia is now at the rate of 14.4 per cent per annum and is most seriously affecting and making life intolerable for those least able to take corrective action to maintain their position, namely, pensioners and those now retired living on fixed incomes. 
Whilst the Australian Government is giving effect to its election policy of making $1.50 per week pension increases each Autumn and Spring such actions have been completely nullified by the stated rate of inflation. 
This fact of life impels your petitioners to call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make a cash loading of $5 per week to those pensioners who have little means other than the present inadequate pension eroded by inflation. 
That each Autumn and Spring the increase in social security pension payments be not less than $3 per week to ensure that within a reasonable period the Government's policy pledge to affix all pensions at 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings be achieved. 
In order that money may go to areas of greater need the Tapered Means Test ceilings of income and assets be frozen. 
To allay the concern of social security recipients as to their future when in 1975 the means test has been abolished and replaced by a National Superannuation Act that there be an assurance by the Australian Government that the said Act will provide a guaranteed minimum income to social security recipients based on the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation and that of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, namely, the payment of 30 per cent of average weekly earnings adjusted from time to time in accordance with figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician and published quarterly. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Senate is discussing a Bill which is designed to provide representation in this Senate of residents of the Australian Capital Territory, Jervis Bay and the Northern Territory. It is a simple Bill. It seeks to regularise the participation of the people in those Territories in the political life of this country and to place them on the same level of participation as every other citizen. If we are to believe the hoary stories of the Opposition if a person born and bred in Sydney or Cairns were to shift to the Northern Territory or to Canberra, he would be denied certain of his democratic rights which he would have had if he had remained in the State of his birth. Of course the Opposition is continuing the same tactics which we saw adopted prior to 18 May when on 4 occasions the House of Representatives and the Senate were involved in discussions of this same Bill. That is to say, the Bill went through the House of Representatives on 2 occasions and through this place on 2 occasions. Subsequent to that it was passed by the House of Representatives and is now before the Senate for its consideration. 
One would have thought that the election on 18 May had not taken place. One would have thought that the mandate which was given to the Government on the second occasion would have been enough. It was clearly expressed in the policy speech of the Government and in the statements made by many of those involved in the election campaign that it was the intention of the Government, should it be returned to office, to give to the residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the same facilities as are given to residents in the rest of Australia as far as Senate representation is concerned. Of course we all recognise that whatever the result of the debate in this place today- assuming that we reach a decision today- the Government is committed to a joint sitting of both Houses at which this matter will be considered. So what we are involved in is largely an exercise in futility. It is another exercise in timewasting which has been characteristic of the Senate over the last 18 months or so during which the Labor Government has been in office. 
It would appear that Opposition senators have not learned any lessons from the last 2 Federal elections and have not listened to the advice of the very many voices that have been raised within their own Party and on the periphery of their Party about approaching important Government legislation and constitutional matters in a fashion different from that which was followed in the previous Parliament. We have been subjected by honourable senators opposite to the usual farrago of nonsense, specious arguments and lawyers' debate in an endeavour to establish some new point so that the Senate, on this occasion, may adopt the same negative attitude towards this Bill as it adopted previously. At one stage in the debate it appeared as though we were going to be subjected again to the filibuster tactic, but it appears that saner voices have prevailed on the Opposition side and that the Government is going to suffer only another one of the frustrations which have characterised the activities of the Senate since March 1 973. 
The Bill has a very simple objective; it seeks to give the residents of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory equal rights in respect of representation in this place. A great deal has been said both in the other House and in this chamber suggesting that all sorts of abnormalities and anomalies will exist should the Senate or the joint sitting of both Houses permit the passage of the Bill. Honourable senators opposite spoke at great length about the difference in population in electorates. I put it to the Senate that if one examines the populations of New South Wales and Tasmania, one finds that the population of New South Wales is about 12 times greater than the population of Tasmania. One finds also that the proportional difference in population between, say, Tasmania and the Northern Territory is considerably different, it is considerably less. In that case I think the ratio is eight to one. The ratio between Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory is only two to one. So if we are going to use the argument that there is a great divergence of population and therefore of representation between New South Wales and the Northern Territory, surely we are entitled to say that this divergence clearly exists between the major States and the smaller States in the existing Commonwealth situation. 
I think it is true to say that in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory we are faced with an evolution. We are faced with a growth in population which is out of proportion to the growth in some of the smaller States, particularly Tasmania. Surely it is only a matter of time before the Parliament will come to the conclusion, more rationally than it appears to be doing on this occasion, that these Territories are entitled to be represented in this place, as they are represented in the House of Representatives. I draw to the attention of honourable senators the fact that it was not so many years ago that the representative for the Australian Capital Territory and the representative for the Northern Territory had limited rights even in the House of Representatives, but as the evolution has taken place those representatives have been recognised as full members of the Parliament and are now able to exercise their rights on all matters that come before the Parliament. We are seeking to extend this right in order to give the residents of the Territories who have particular and different problems the rights enjoyed by every other person in the Commonwealth. 
An argument has been advanced to suggest that what we propose to do by this Bill could result in some change occurring in the balance of the forces within the Senate itself, but we will continue to have proportional representation. Does any honourable senator opposite seriously believe that the Labor Party, which at present cannot win the one House of Representatives seat for the Northern Territory, is going to win the 2 Senate vacancies in the Northern Territory, if they are created, or is the election to be decided on the basis of each party receiving more than 33 per cent of the vote which would be required to elect a senator? I suggest that the latter would be the predictable result from a contest between the Labor Party and probably the Country Party. Perhaps that is the reason why the Liberal Party does not want to go along with this proposal; it does not want to see the influence of the Country Party increased in this Chamber. I think that probably the same situation will develop in the Australian Capital Territory. Even though we might have hopes that the Government could do better in the Australian Capital Territory, surely no one doubts that it is a very formidable task to expect any one party or group to win 66 per cent of the votes, even in the Australian Capital Territory. So really the stories that have been coming from the Opposition benches, the notes of alarm and the attempts which have been made to suggest that this is a gerrymander have no substance at all as far as the logic of the argument is concerned. 
The Labor Party's position in this matter has been quite consistent. The original member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Nelson,  and  Mr Whitlam  himself have, for a number of years, consistently supported the principle of Senate representation for these 2 Territories. More recently we have seen the development of support for this proposal from areas even outside the influence of the Government. The Legislative Council in the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council and more recently, I understand, even the conference of the Liberal Party in the Australian Capital Territory have seen fit to support the proposition that the people in the Territories should be regarded as having equal rights in this place with every other Australian. 

 Senator Greenwood has moved an amendment which certainly seeks only to delay the passage of the Bill by referring it for further consideration to a committee of the Senate which, as I understand it, has not yet been set up. Of course, this was the principal tactic adopted in the previous Parliament- referring matters of great political moment to committees for consideration in the knowledge that there would be little opportunity for those committees to carry out the sort of in-depth studies that were required to enable them to report back to the Senate. 
The party political lines have been drawn. We know quite well,  Senator Greenwood,  that the decisions of your Party have been made. What is the point of referring this Bill to some other body for consideration when the die has already been cast? When the motion for the second reading of this Bill was agreed to in the other place 16 or 1 7 members of the Country Party voted with the Government but, of course, the whips were drawn and pressure was exerted on the Country Party. The tactic adopted was that of delaying and frustrating the Government in this place. 
I am grateful,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for the breath of fresh air that has come into this Senate. I refer particularly to one of the independent senators who has tried to advise the Opposition to be a little more constructive in its attitude. That breath of fresh air caused me, in preparing for this speech, to read some of the debates that took place in the House of Representatives on the last occasion that this Bill was discussed. I would think that members of the Opposition would hang their heads in shame if they looked at the divisions and the way votes were recorded in the House of Representatives in the period from when the Parliament assembled on 28 February 1973 to the end of 1973. I was amazed to find the lethargy that existed within the Opposition ranks in that place. Only on one occasion during all the divisions on the 270-odd pieces of legislation dealt with during last year was the Liberal Party able to maintain its full strength in that place. I have noted the number of absentees there were on many occasions and they were as follows: 12, 13, 14, 11, 18, 19, 16, 20, 21, 17, 13 and 16. If honourable senators would like to check they would find that on every occasion the performance of the Opposition parties in that place was pathetic and unimaginative. Clearly the Opposition parties in this place have earned the rebuke given by one of the newly elected senators and certain individual members of the Opposition who said that there should be a more workmanlike approach from the Opposition parties to their parliamentary responsibilities. I refer not only to what  Senator Steele  Hall said but to what  Mr Gorton, Mr Killen  and the Federal  President  of the Liberal Party,  Mr Southey,  have said in respect to the denial of supply. I refer also to what  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Mr Harold  Holt had to say about these matters when they were Prime Ministers of this Country. 
One would have imagined that as a result of that friendly advice being given to the Opposition some light would have broken through the darkness and that we would have had a more mature and responsible attitude from the Opposition parties. Is that the case? No. We are still going to be put through the torture of debating these Bills at the same length and hearing the same specious arguments. Largely the same senators will speak on these matters as spoke on the previous occasion, seeking to deny the results of the election and seeking to deny the Government the opportunity of bringing in even the simple Bill that is now before us. 
Yesterday arguments were raised in the Senate to suggest that section 128 of the Constitution would prohibit the Bill becoming law because it would diminish the proportional representation of any State unless the majority of electors voting in each State approved the proposed law. I give  Senator Greenwood  credit for raising this argument which I think was used yesterday. The argument seems to be that by allowing the senators for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory to have equal votes with existing senators who claim to represent the States, the rights of those States would be reduced disproportionately. 
I remember one of the early speeches I made in this House some two or three years ago about the vexed problem of Commonwealth/State relations. I put forward a plea for the Commonwealth to devise a more equitable means of distributing Commonwealth funds so that the States could carry out their proper public works functions. I was taken to task by  Senator Webster  for introducing party politics. By interjection I drew his attention to the fact that this House was supposed to represent the States and that that matter was part of our responsibility. He disagreed with me on that occasion and said that that was not our primary purpose; our purpose was to review the legislation of the House of Representatives. Yesterday we found that same honourable senator speaking about the power of the States when he made his contribution. In no way is the Government endeavouring to reduce the power of the States. In point of fact I think it was the Menzies administration that put a referendum to the people about breaking the nexus between the number of senators and the number of members in the House of Representatives. 
He was well and truly beaten. I am indebted to  Senator Wood  for endorsing what I was about to say. Let us look at the position. We now have 127 members in the House of Representatives and we still have 60 senators. Passage of this Bill would result in there being another 4 senators and that would regularise the arrangements between the Senate and the House of Representatives because, according to the Constitution, the House of Representatives should have twice as many members as the Senate. We know that there will be an electoral redistribution. Are we to tie the hands of the Electoral Commissioners and prevent them from dealing with the creation of new seats? At what stage is  Senator Greenwood  going to accuse this Government of some malpractice or improper attitude if the Commissioners suggest that there should be 130 members in the House of Representatives? This adds to the argument that the Government has been putting forward about the need to modernise our Constitution. We need to recognise the new factors that have developed in our country in recent years. We live in an entirely different world to that of the days when our founding fathers put certain restrictions in the Constitution. The world has changed. We have heard many senators from all sides of this House suggest that the time has arrived for some modernisation of our parliamentary system. 
I was referring to the argument raised yesterday by  Senator Greenwood.  I suppose it is not the prerogative of a layman to throw legal opinion back to a lawyer but Quick and Garran were eminent in this field and they expressed a viewpoint on this very question. They said that section 128 in no way inhibits governments and parliaments from operating in respect of section 122. I just cannot understand the arguments produced by the Opposition, particularly by the last  speaker,  because section 122, as I read it as a layman, does not talk about States. It does not say that the Parliament is not able to pass legislation to give representation to other areas in Australia. In fact section 122, which is in chapter VI and which deals with new States and with the Senate specifically states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament- 
I think that the next phrase is what needs to be emphasised to the Australian people and put forward for, I hope, the good judgment of honourable senators:  -to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
I do not think there is any ambiguity about the matter. I do not imagine that anyone could say that section 128 supersedes section 122 or that it seeks to reduce the effectiveness of section 122. The learned constitutional authorities Quick and Garran made the point that section 128 does not have application to section 122. 1 know that lawyers will argue this until kingdom come and it is not my prerogative to say whether they are right or wrong. If the joint sitting passes this Bill,  Senator Greenwood  will probably be briefed by one of the rebel States in an endeavour to delay even further the passage of what is clearly a very minor and simple piece of legislation. 
I do not believe that it was ever the intention of the founding fathers to place some Australian citizens in a different position from other Australian citizens. Their determination to have equal representation by the big and the smaller States was clearly designed to give every Australian citizen the right to be represented in the Senate. The citizens of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory pay taxes to the Australian Government. It is the tactic of the Opposition to break precedent. It took steps in the last Parliament to deny Supply. It could refuse to pass any tax Bill or any money Bill in future. Is it seriously suggested by the Opposition that the 130,000 or 140,000 voters in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory should have no say in this chamber in respect of such money or Supply Bills? 
Let us recognise that the Northern Territory, whilst its population is still only about 30,000, is a very important part of Australia. It is a real treasure trove. It has problems which need ventilation in this place.  Senator McLaren  has spent a great deal of his time travelling around the Territory. On one occasion I was privileged to go with him to speak to people with a wide divergence of opinion- Liberals, members of the Country Party, people of all political trends- in the Northern Territory. A year or two ago, when I went with him, I did not meet a person who did not raise with me the right to have somebody representing that area in this place. 
It is not our intention to try to argue this matter out in a reasoned debate because we know that in the other place when  Mr Calder  spoke on this Bill he expressed himself vocally on the need to have Senate representation of that region because of the geographies of the area. This argument was used by Opposition senators when opposing the Commonwealth Electoral Bill yesterday. They talked about the need to have more equitable redistributions in the House of Representatives electorates. They talked about this great area which had to be represented. Now they are rejecting the view of the representative of that area,  Mr Calder,  that the time has arrived for the Senate to have a representative from that region. 
Having read the debates, it is clear to me that the Country Party in the House of Representatives last year had an entirely different attitude from that expressed yesterday by the Deputy Leader of the  Country  Party in the Senate,  Senator Webster,  and by  Senator Maunsell,  who I think is now a member of the Country Party. I am not sure about all the changes which have taken place in that grouping, but certainly he has an ideology close to that of the Country Party. We do not see the value of debating this matter to any major extent, but we think that the other point of view needs to be presented. We would hope that the Opposition would take a more mature position, would heed some of the advice which has been given it from friendly sources and would get with the mood of the Australian people, which is for change, modification and improvement to our whole way of life. This is the second occasion on which the Government has been elected by the people. We would hope that the Opposition would give the Government some sort of opportunity to implement the policies which it quite openly presented to the Australian people. 
We cannot accept the delaying tactics which have been the characteristic of  Senator Greenwood  since we have been in government. We would hope that one or two senators opposite would be prepared to change their attitude to this Bill and to other Bills which are yet to come before the Senate, and rather than delay it for a week or so let us get on with the business now and carry out the mandate which we have been given. After all, everybody recognises that eventually the matters will be placed on Party lines before a joint sitting of the 2 Houses. We would hope that the Opposition would give the Government some opportunity to implement the policies on which it was elected to govern this country for the next 3 years and would give the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory representation in this chamber on the same basis as they are represented in the House of Representatives. 
My question to the Attorney-General refers to  Senator Marriott's  question yesterday relating to the alleged bugging of  Mr Freeman's  telephone. The AttorneyGeneral's reply suggests that the bugging device in  Mr Freeman's  telephone could only have been placed in it for the purpose of being discovered there. Has the Minister now seen reports suggesting that the campaign rooms of the current Liberal Party candidate in the New South Wales byelection for Coogee were burgled? Has he seen a statement by the New South Wales Criminal Investigation Branch that no complaint has been made to it? Is the Minister able to say whether the bugging device found in the telephone is in breach of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act of 1960? In view of the Minister's statement yesterday, will he give consideration to holding a judicial inquiry into all of the circumstances because prima facie it would appear that the incident might be described as a provocation against  Mr Freeman's  legitimate political opponents? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is a fact that nearly 7,000 Chilean political refugees were granted asylum by about 20 embassies in Santiago after the overthrow of President Allende. In view of the fact that the Chilean regime accepted a legal obligation only to grant safe conduct out of Chile to refugees who had fled to Latin American embassies, will the Australian Government take steps to secure an international agreement to a universal convention on diplomatic asylum so that refugees fleeing from political persecution can enjoy the same protection? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that surveys show that importers and retailers have ripped off massive and excessive profits arising from the Government's 25 per cent tariff reduction policy? Does this mean that endeavours of the Government to overcome the shortage of goods and to provide consumers with cheaper articles have been thwarted by avaricious entrepreneurs? Does the Minister agree that, following the tabling of the Senate Committee 's investigation into malpractice in share trading in Australia, this excessive profiteering is yet another blatant example of the ugly face of capitalism? Would the Minister consider licensing all those handling such goods following the introduction of the Government's tariff reduction policies with a view to withdrawing consent to import and sell if the Government's anti-inflation policies are subjected to excessive profiteering by importers and retailers? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the latest report on the situation in Cyprus? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether Australian nationals in Cyprus are safe? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that when it was apparent in 1972 that a change of Government was likely in the general elections the Liberal-Country Party Government approved a large number of mining applications, ignoring the conservation aspects? 
Is he aware that a magnificent red gum forest of some 6 square miles at North Entrance on the New South Wales central coast is the subject of an application by a mining company seeking to exploit the rutile deposits thereunder? Is he aware that this application was rejected by the Wyong Council using its powers under the Tree Preservation Ordinances? Does he know that on appeal to the New South Wales Supreme Court by the mining company,  Mr Justice  Hope broadly upheld the Wyong Council's view? As the mining company has appealed directly to the Privy Council, thereby giving British judges the right to determine this important environment issue, will the Attorney-General give urgent consideration to offering financial help to the Wyong Council in its endeavours to retain this valuable natural area for the people of Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a military tribunal has sentenced to death 3 Chilean air force officers and a top public official for collecting information about a clandestine military plot during the period of  President  Allende 's legal Government and prior to the coup? Is it not the obligation of all responsible citizens to collate information about treasonable activities against a legal and democratic government and report it to the appropriate authorities? In these circumstances, will the Minister give urgent consideration to appealing to the Chilean junta not to carry out the death sentences? 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $ 15.75m for the purchase of 47 acres of land in the Glebe area of Sydney and thereby enable the completion of a contract of sale entered into by the Commonwealth Government with Church of England authorities. We have heard a great deal this evening about this matter from 2 representatives of the Opposition Parties in this chamber. They continued the argument along the same strain as was evident from speeches by the opposition in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives. One would be disposed to believe that the honourable senators opposite who have spoken in the debate were opposing the Government's proposition, although the Opposition in the House of Representatives agreed to the Government's proposals. Knowing the obtuse attitude of the Senate, one could be forgiven for not knowing exactly what the Senate is going to do in relation to this matter. I have been led to believe that, despite what has been said by honourable senators opposite, the Government will have the support of the Opposition on this Bill. 
The Government has been subjected to a great deal of criticism in this debate that was designed to create the impression that the Government was somehow involved in some sort of shady deal which was going to be against the best interests of the people of New South Wales, particularly the residents of the Glebe area. It seemed to me from the brief on which honourable senators opposite based their remarks that they had not done sufficient homework to enable them to understand the motivation for the Australian Government's actions in this area.  Senator Carrick  referred to the submission of the Church of England authorities to the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. I wish to quote from that submission. It states: 
These church-owned sites, and similar large areas of residential housing owned by single owners, would be ideal places for the Federal and State governments, perhaps in cooperation with local councils, to experiment with the provision of low-cost housing along planned lines. 
It is precisely because it wants to experiment along those lines that the Commonwealth has agreed to take the step of acquiring this property. It is endeavouring to establish a new form of Australian government involvement in urban affairs. All sorts of ulterior motives have been read into the Government's actions in this respect. Anyone who examines what has been the experience of other countries in relation to the problems of the old inner city slum areas in which many low income persons have lived for, in some cases, a considerable number of years will find that no country has yet been able to produce answers to problem questions about what to do with them, particularly the old urban regions close to a city proper. Country after country has experimented with a view to trying to establish a reasonable policy which will take into account the sort of social mix concepts that I should have thought  Senator Baume,  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, would have been more prepared to consider than he did in his contribution to the debate. The words 'urban renewal', 'rehabilitation' 'middle income class' and 'medium density development' have been thrown around. In point of" fact the church authorities themselves have recognised the need for some public authority- I stress the words need for some public authority'- to become involved in the maintenance of low cost housing around our major cities. One can only come to the conclusion that the honourable senators opposite had not studied the matter sufficiently or that they were attempting to mislead the House when they said that there has been no attempt to establish a relationship with all of the different groups associated with this land purchase. In fact it was the Church of England authorities who offered it to a public authority in the first instance. The tab was not picked up by the New 
South Wales government, nor was it within the resources of the local council- the Leichhardt Municipal Council. So it was only proper that the Commonwealth should move into this field. What did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  have to say about this matter? He said: 
The church itself, the Leichhardt Municipal Council, and resident groups have all asked the Australian Government to ensure that this unique leasehold estate should not be fragmented in ownership but should be retained in single ownership. 
Despite that we have been subjected to a debate of  Vh  hours duration during which the 2 previous speakers for the Opposition suggested just the reverse of that, that is, that we should in fact fragment this estate, that we should allow it to pass into some sort of private ownership for the purpose of permitting the middle income group to participate in the development of this unique area. It is a unique area. Where else within a stone's throw of a general post office in any part of Australia is there an area in which any public authority could acquire land at this stage of our history? I think it is to the credit of the Government that it sees not only the great advantage of acquiring the area but also the great advantage of involving itself in innovation and experimentation. Anyone who knows anything at all about the problems of housing in our society today will surely appreciate the need for far sighted governments to become involved in experimentation in this area 
What is the area? It is an area in which 85 per cent of residents are of Australian origin. In it there are aged people, single persons, frail persons, Aborigines, chronically ill people and people who enjoy a good state of health. So it represents in toto a cross section of the Australian community. It is not the prerogative of the Government to pay out such large sums of money with a view to fragmenting the estate subsequently. If that was to be the case there was no point in the Church authorities approaching the Commonwealth with a view to retaining the land in its original concept. 

 Senator Baume suggests that the area does not have a great deal of public facilities and that this aspect ought to be examined. But does he suggest that if it was put into the hands of Parkes Development, Stocks and Holdings, LendLease, Hookers or any of the other major development companies they would in redeveloping the site provide public facilities. Surely that is not suggested. If it is such action would be something unique in the redevelopment of any of our areas. In fact the local authorities in Sydney and Melbourne which had to deal with the major development companies have all had a great deal of difficulty in trying to convince these large scale developers of the need to provide even a minimum of public facilities such as public parking, parks and so on. 
Of course, if the area had been sold to a private developer, which seems to be in the background of the thinking of Opposition senators the area would have been raped. As we know, every house would have been pulled down. There would have been in its place the development of large scale high density building. That has its place in the rehabilitation or the urban renewal policies which clearly have to be followed. But it does not have to be in this place. I think the Government has acted correctly in setting up virtually in the heart of Sydney a social laboratory capable of being interpreted in consultation with the local people to work out what are the best ways in which low income groups, as well as those in the middle groups, may be acclimatised and established in a local environment. 
It seems that honourable senators opposite have not even a minimal understanding of even of what is required in these circumstances. They do not even understand what low, medium and high density means.  Mr Snedden  and  Senator Carrick  have talked about the need to have medium density in this area. Anyone associated with planning principles or with development would know that in fact this is an area of medium density; it is not an area which can be described as either of high density or low density. If it was a low density area it would have about 20 people to the acre. However this medium density area contains about 55 to 60 people to the acre. The consultants who looked into this matter have confirmed this fact. 
Speeches that we have heard from the other side of the Senate show how little Opposition senators have been able to upgrade their policies, attitudes and philosophies of the needs of contemporary Australia. It just highlights once again how out of tune they are with what is required in the world today, particularly in the advanced industrialised society that we have in this country. Of course, this legislation gives us a splendid opportunity to deal with the very question that  Senator Baume  spoke about. He said we have to be concerned with poverty.  Senator Baume  then contradicted himself when he suggested that we should be selling up part of the 
Glebe estate when we acquire it for medium density or for middle income groups. You cannot have it both ways. The Church of England authorities who put a submission to the poverty commission, when they spoke with great exuberance, and the experience of the Commonwealth Department of Urban and Regional Development, and the experience of all the other authorities that have been involved in these negotiations and discussions have all suggested that what is needed in this area is to have a social laboratory where we will be concerning ourselves with people on low incomes. 
If honourable senators have any reason to doubt what I have to say, let me just give them some brief indications of what public opinion in Sydney has to say about this. The Royal Australian Institution of Architects at a meeting on 7 February 1974 said:   . . fully supports moves being made by the Government to acquire 47 acres of land at Glebe now owned by the Church of England. 
Professor Bernard Smith, Professor of Fine Arts at the University of Sydney and author of 'The Architectural Character of Glebe'- and I am sure that even honourable senators opposite will admit that he is a specialist in this area- wrote to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  last year and said: 
I am sure that it is a move of great wisdom and imagination. 
Professor Freeland, Professor of Architecture at the University of New South Wales and one of our leading architectural historians said: 
The information that the Federal Government intends to purchase 47 acres of land at Glebe is good news indeed. The information that the Government intends to rehabilitate the area rather than redevelop it is even better news. 
We have senators from the Liberal Party suggesting that the Government is acting improperly and wrongly and that its motivation, philosophy and strategy are not right and that in fact the Government is going off at some sort of tangent. We are fortunate in that we are able also to produce a letter written on 10 January 1974 to the Department by the  Chairman  of the Housing Commission of New South Wales. Of course, the  Chairman  of the Housing Commission is well known in Sydney to be a man who has some understanding of the problems of providing accommodation for those in low income groups. He said: 
The Commission has been pleased to note announcements that the Australian Government intends to acquire church properties at Glebe. 

 - Mr Bourke, the leading person involved in public housing in New South Wales. As we know,  Mr Bourke  has been outspoken about the need for the Government to provide housing for those on low incomes requiring public housing. Because of this he has even fallen foul from time to time of his own Minister and his own State government. But he is recognised as being one of the most sympathetic and conscientious public servants in New South Wales. He has a reputation in the whole area of planning, local government and public housing as a public servant par excellence. He has taken a forthright stand and is prepared to sit down with the Commonwealth Government to bring about some experimentation and innovation to provide the low income groups with the opportunity of living in a very fine area of Sydney. 
I think it was  Senator Wright-  I do not want to do him a disservice- who endeavoured to suggest by way of interjection to  Senator Carrick  that there was something wrong with the economics of this project. I want to put it to the senators who have suggested this that they should have some regard for the views of the consultants who have pointed out that if we have to pull down the buildings in this area and redevelop it as a high density area- that is the sort of density that would have to be applied in this region- the unit cost per house, unit, block or flat would be $39,000. Further, they pointed out that if the Government maintains the area in its present state, allowing for the rehabilitation that the Government has in mind for these 700 building sites, the unit cost will be $30,000. So what is the reason for this hysteria? What is the reason for Opposition senators getting up on their high horse and endeavouring to present some sort of impression that the Government is acting unfairly, improperly and so on? Is this just opposition for opposition's sake? Are we just being given the argument that the Government is acting just for the sake of talking, for filling up Hansard and for providing headlines for some of the local residents or are we in fact seeking to be constructive, which I think is what the Liberal and Country Parties have to be if they ever want to challenge the authority of this Government as far as the electors are concerned. The Opposition has to think out its philosophy and understand what is required in the sort of world that we have today. It has to cast out of its mind the stupid inanities we had from the previous Prime Minister when he said when addressing a conference in Melbourne  2 1/2  years ago that people who talk about urban affairs have a phobia and a hysteria and that they are talking off the top of their heads. He said that they did not understand and that they were caught up in emotionalism. This was the time when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Uren  and those of us who have been associated with urban affairs policies in the Labor Party- the innovative policies if you like - were setting out to try to convince the electorate as well as the Liberal Party of the need to get with it and to understand what social responsibilities are. 
It seems to me from the debate led by the Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Representatives and from the debate in this House this evening that unfortunately the Opposition has no real understanding of the Government's policies and of what is needed in contemporary Australia. Let us take the statement by the Leader of the Liberal Party in the other place. He said: 
A man looking over Lake Burley Griffin does not understand the problems of people in inner metropolitan Sydney. 
Who says that the Government does not understand the problems in metropolitan Sydney? My Party is made up of a great number of men and women who have been involved in social welfare programs, in local government and with many other planning problems associated with the great developments of our cities in recent years. Yet it is suggested that the Government, which is endeavouring to bring to fruition its dreams and aspirations in these matters, does not know what it is doing. It is suggested that just because we are here in a city on Lake Burley Griffin we are not capable of understanding and of applying the common sense and experience that so many of us have gained in the years in which we have given public service to the people of this country. I suggest that honourable members opposite have not caught up with times. The Government knows what it is about. 
I think it was  Senator Carrick  who made a statement about the number of people requiring public housing. Let me tell him that at December 1972-1 am sure that he would concede that the Labor Government cannot be blamed for the state of the nation in the few brief weeks before Christmas 1972, even though he puts all the blame on the Government for the subsequent period- the number of people in Australia waiting for public housing was 93,000, which is the highest figure in Australia's history. That was not the result of a Labor government in New South Wales; it was a national figure reflecting directly the inadequate policies over the 23 years in which we had Liberal-Country Party governments. 
The shadow Minister for the Environment and Conservation, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  happens to be a Country Party man. What does he know about the problems of conservation and pollution in the major cities where the problems are at their worst?  Senator Carrick  went on to say a great deal about the problems of low-cost housing and he tried to suggest that the Sydney City Council was inadequate. I ask  Senator Carrick-  I am sure he is fair-minded enough- to examine the minutes of meetings of the Sydney City Council to find out how low-cost housing developed. Alderman Murphy- he is no relation to  Senator Murphywas  associated with many of the redevelopment areas around the city of Sydney. Both the Labor administration and the new administration of the Sydney City Council have done a great deal to overcome the problems of low-cost housing in the city. Of course, it is a problem that is beyond the resources of the city council, as it is beyond the resources of any local authority. It is beyond the resources of the States. Obviously it is a matter in which the Australian Government has a very important financial and historical interest. 
So we find ourselves associated with a move designed to be the second acquisition by the Australian Government for the purposes of low-cost housing. I understand that the first one was at Emerald Hill in Victoria. I want to say a few brief words about the social mix. That is a very brief phrase. I want to get the message across to my colleagues on the other side of the chamber. An essential ingredient of the orderly development of our cities and suburbs is to have a mix between the middle and low income groups. Surely the private sector is able, with the resources available to it, to provide an adequate number of houses for those people who want to acquire them. It is up to the public sector to provide the type of accommodation needed for those in the low income groups. Some great tragedies have taken place in the Sydney region and I am led to believe that this has happened in Victoria also. There has been a segregation of the population in the fast growing outer suburbs of Sydney without the necessary and essential social mix. 
I hope that some regard will be had for history, for the old buildings and for the type of architecture that exists in the Glebe region. I understand that the architecture is somewhat similar to the architecture of the area in South Australia from which  Senator Hall  comes. There are some beautiful old colonial homes on the immediate outskirts of the city proper. There are types of development in the Glebe area which ought to be retained, and I hope the people of 
South Australia, the South Australian Government and the city councils will insist that similar developments in South Australia will be retained for the purpose of showing future generations how past generations lived. 
So we on this side of the chamber are concerned at this stage with carrying out the purchase of this land. We hope that this purchase will be followed by many others. We will seek to retain something of the human environment which has made this an attractive area for those people who live within it. We will consult with the local residents, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development said this in the debate in the other place, as did other speakers who followed him. At every stage in the management of this area we will involve the people who live in the environs of these 47 acres. This project will not be run from Canberra. The Government will not endeavour to tell people how and where they should live. Rather, it will be a co-operative effort. I know that if is hard to get that message through the skull of  Senator Wright.  This is what the Labor Government is all about: It wants to establish a co-operative movement between the 3 arms of government and the local residents, to establish an infrastructure of some sort which will enable us to see how people want to live, where people want to live, what environment they want. The Government will profit from that knowledge, and the enormous sums of money which the Commonwealth makes available to the States and which the States spend largely on housing will be spent to the advantage of every citizen. 
I have heard a great deal about lack of consultation with the State authorities. Let me say that the Minister sent a communication to  Sir Charles  Cutler, the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales, in May last year. Subsequently, on 1 June 1973, communications passed between the Federal Minister and  Mr Jago  who was then the New South Wales Acting Minister for Local Government and Minister for Highways. There have been a number of communications with the New South Wales Public Service Board and with many local authorities in the area. So instead of saying that there is something wrong with the Government's involvement, I hope that the Opposition will show some constructive attitudes. Housing is one of the major social problems existing in this country. I hope that we will receive the co-operation and goodwill of the Opposition and not the sort of obstruction that has characterised its behaviour in the last 20 months since this Government came to office. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that last Thursday 27 students were arrested at the Australian National University following a disagreement between the administration and students? Is it a fact that the students had legitimate grievances and these included greater student participation in course design, freedom of choice of the means of assessment, reduced class sizes and the introduction of a women's study course? In view of the obvious desirability of these reforms, will the Minister advise the Austraiian National University that he regards the use of police on campus grounds and the subsequent arrests as undesirable and give consideration to the withdrawal of charges against the students? Will the Minister also give consideration to denying the use of police on the campus in matters which are entirely internal? Further, will the Minister, as a result of these experiences and on a matter of principle, state that the Government is opposed to the use of police in legitimate disputes between students and university administrations on campuses? 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that prior to the report to the Senate on Croatian Terrorism 18 months ago there was a considerable amount of violence, bombings, bashings and other undesirable behaviour by a small minority of persons influenced by or members of the Ustasha and tolerated by the previous Government? Is the Minister able to inform the Senate whether there has been a cessation of such activities during the period of the Labor Government? Can he say whether he has any reports from the Commonwealth Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation as to the reasons for the fall-off in violence in the Croatian community and whether it is the Government's firm handling of these problems that has produced a more healthy attitude in this community? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the poor condition of the Hume Highway between Goulburn and Albury, which is clearly the result of 23 years of neglect by the former Liberal-Country Party Government? Will the Minister undertake to discuss with the Minister  for Transport possible schemes to improve the condition of this major national highway as a matter of extreme urgency? 
-I bring up the report of the Joint Committee on Prices relating to the price of household soaps and detergents together with a statement relating to the report. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The report on the price of household soaps and detergents which has just been tabled is the first report of the Joint Committee on Prices established by the 29th Parliament. The report will be tabled in the other place by the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Mr C.  J. Hurford, M.P. at the commencement of the Budget sitting. On behalf of the  Chairman  of the Committee I wish to outline the salient features of the report. The inquiry on which the report is based was conducted by the Committee established by the 28th Parliament. The views, conclusions and recommendations, however, are those of the present Committee. I pay a tribute to the members of the Committee, who reached complete agreement on the compilation of this report. Briefly, the report underlines the value of price investigations that encompass an industry rather than the individual companies that constitute that industry. Thus, the industry examination shows that the starting point for analysis is the domination of the market by 2 major manufacturers who between them control over 80 per cent of the market. Interestingly enough, where their market power is reduced, as it is in the dishwashing or liquid detergent part of the marketwhere they control less than 45 per cent- cost increases have been absorbed with the result that the rate of price increase has been less frequent than in other sections of the market. 
With the above exception, the Committee has found that this industry exhibits an absence of real or effective competition. Incidentally, this conclusion is not very different to the one arrived at by the United Kingdom Monopolies Commission that examined the household detergents industry in that country. The absence of real or effective competition has been reflected in; firstly, the absence of price competition, with the exception of dishwashing detergents referred to previously; secondly, the unnecessary proliferation of brands; thirdly, an excessive amount of advertising, which also misleads the consumer; and fourthly, unduly high profits. It is against this background that the Committee drew up its recommendations. The first 2 recommendations deal with reducing the level of advertising by the 2 major manufacturers. The Committee has asked the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to inform the major manufacturers of the Committee's wish to see them enter into a voluntary agreement to reduce the amount of advertising so that the consumer could benefit from lower retail prices. The Committee is convinced that such an agreement would confer a specific and substantial benefit to the public which would not be available without that agreement- see Section 90( 5 ) Trade Practices Bill 1 974. 
The Committee also asks the Australian Government to invite the Prices Justification Tribunal to examine the question of excessive advertising in this industry. This would be particularly appropriate if the major manufacturers are reluctant to enter into a voluntary agreement. The other recommendations could be divided mainly into 2 sections. The first deals with the establishment of standards and the testing of products against these standards. These recommendations are made to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  who is responsible for the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. The second set of recommendations directly benefit the consumer. The Committee has recommended that some financial assistance be given to consumer organisations to assist them publicise the results of the tests. In another recommendation the Committee has asked the Minister for Science to assist consumers to draw up questionnaires that would ask manufacturers and others to substantiate the claims made in their advertising. These recommendations could assist the consumer to make a more informed choice by reducing consumer exposure to meaningless messages such as 'whiter than white' and also by increasing consumer awareness of the quality of competing products. This in turn could lead to greater purchases of good quality, lower priced products and thereby hopefully permit price competition rather than competition based mostly on advertising and brands. 
Finally, once again as a means of encouraging competition in the domestic market, the Committee has recommended that the question of the level of protection given to the industry be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission. To sum up then, the view of the Committee is that the adoption of these various recommendations would have a twofold impact. Firstly, there would be a reduction in retail prices if the level of advertising were reduced. This would constitute visible benefits to the consumer. Secondly, the other recommendations could increase the efficiency of the industry by stimulating a more meaningful type of competition. This would result in prices being at a lower level than they would otherwise be and would accrue to the consumer in the longer term. This is the fifth report by the Joint Committee on Prices. It is clear that as a result of the Committee's investigations into price abuses in the market place, it is fulfilling a very important role of exposure of the excesses which are taking place there. I commend the report to the Senate. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks on the resumption of the debate. 
Leave granted. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports by  Mr Renouf,  permanent head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, that Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agents have been active in most Australian embassies abroad? Is the Minister able to say whether these persons were placed in the embassies by the previous Liberal Government for matters unrelated to Australia's security? What steps is the Government taking to remove ASIO agents from our embassies, particularly in those countries with which Australia has close and friendly relations? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral give an indication of when country mail services in New South Wales will return to normal after the disruption caused by the shortage of fuel? 
I believe that the committee system which is now operating in the Senate and which has been extended to the House of Representatives has certainly enriched the work of the Parliament. It is a tribute to the Senate that it was able some years ago to see the need to exercise its power to review, in the form of a committee system, Government policy and legislation. I think that a great deal has been learned as a result of those experiences. I do not doubt that the innovative concepts of the early committees have created in the public mind the value of the Senate as a House not only concerned with reviewing legislation, but also reviewing the effects of legislation and anticipating what may ultimately become legislation. In that sense I think that the Senate has placed itself much higher in the minds of the public and fulfilled a more useful role. 
However, having established the value of the Senate and the committee system firmly in the public mind we have now seen an extension of the principle to the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has now seen fit to introduce a committee system in the belief that the effectiveness of the committee system will be enhanced by the 2 chambers working together- in other words the establishment of joint committees. This makes it hard to understand, therefore, why the Opposition in only one area is seeking to amend the system. It seeks to move outside the joint parliamentary system, which I believe is an extension of the pioneering work done by the Senate, and to have a Senate system as well as a joint parliamentary system operating to deal with the same subjects. As one who has been fortunate to be a member of both the Senate Standing Committee and the Joint Committee and for a period of time a chairman of each of those committees, I can say that there are real difficulties involved, first of all, in personnel from both Houses being able to participate in the working of the committee as well as the ability of the committee to have applied to it the resources which are necessary to enable the correct functioning of the committee. In making those statements I make no criticism of the members of the Senate who in the past have found difficulty in participating in the joint committees as well as the committees of the Senate. We have the ludicrous position that a joint parliamentary committee dealing with one aspect of parliamentary work can find itself in conflict with the work of a similar committee appointed by the Senate. 

 Senator Murphy's motion, which has been on the Notice Paper for several months, seeks to reestablish the committees and largely to base them on the experiences of the last several parliaments. I think it would be a great mistake if the Senate were persuaded to support a dual system of parliamentary committees in one specific area. That is what the amendment seeks to do. I wonder why that specific area has been picked to be the area in which there shall be a joint parliamentary committee and a Senate standing committee. If it is possible to persuade the House of Representatives to establish a committee to deal with any aspect of the Parliament's work or the Government's policies, it renders redundant the work of the Senate committee. We should give our time, energy and resources to the joint committee and not seek to put ourselves in a position of having a dual system. 

 Senator Murphy has sought the establishment of the old committee system which worked reasonably well- in some cases very well. A subsequent notice of motion which  Senator Murphy  has placed on the Notice Paper seeks the establishment of a joint committee of the 2 Houses of Parliament to see how best we may rationalise the resources that are essential for the proper functioning of the committee system. I wonder why those honourable senators who see some difficulties in these areas are pressing their point of view so strongly? Surely they should have no doubt that if they have an interest in foreign affairs and defence matters they will be appointed to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. There is no reason why they cannot become members of that Committee. The purpose of a further notice of motion that will be discussed is to carry out an investigation into the committee system with a view to rationalising it and strengthening it, not weakening it as has been suggested by those honourable senators opposite who have participated in this debate. I urge the Senate to consider the motion that has been moved by  Senator Murphy  because I think that it accords with the best principles of the Senate as well as with the parliamentary system. 
Does the Minister for the Media agree that Opposition senators have constantly criticised the Australian Broadcasting Commission's public affairs programs as being one-sided. Has the Minister given assurances that it is the policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to present balanced programs and that if one viewpoint is given on a program an opportunity is always offered for an opposing view to be given? Can the Minister say whether the same principle applies to private television and radio stations? Did the Minister see the program 'Federal File' on Sunday, 15 September, which clearly showed a decided antiGovernment bias and breached the principle of balanced program presentation? In the circumstances, will the Minister give consideration to insisting, when the annual review of television licences is under consideration by him, that it be a condition for the renewal of licences that all programs shown on private television stations be required to comply with the standards applied to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has seen reports suggesting that Australia's security organisations have been training agents from some Asian countries, particularly countries where democracy is very limited and where the armed forces exercise undue influence. Can the Minister indicate when the training began and whether the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is responsible for the unusual course being undertaken? Does this mean that Australia's security is now ensured and that our security bodies have little to do other than interfere in the affairs of our Asian neighbours? 
I want to say a few words because I am disturbed at the remarks that were made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  on the very simple proposition that the Government has put before the Senate. The Government has presented the same formula for the appointment of Senate representation to the Constitutional Convention as it presented earlier this year. That is, it seeks to appoint 3 representatives of the Government and 3 representatives of those who constitute the membership of the other side of the Senate. On the previous occasion when similar appointments were made the group that held the balance of power in this place was the Australian Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Gair  of the Democratic Labor Party was a delegate to the last Constitutional Convention that was held in Sydney. That Party is no longer the balance of power group in the Senate; the balance of power is now held by 2 senators who occupy independent positions. Therefore, I think it is fair to say that the Government is acting properly in suggesting that the representative to take the place of  Senator Gair  should be a representative of the independent senators in this chamber. There is no question that in the area of independence  Senator Hall  has exercised his position quite judiciously, whereas  Senator Townley  has consistently supported the view of the main Opposition Party in this chamber. 
I take issue with  Senator Withers  about the emphasis that he placed on the question of numbers at the Constitutional Convention. It is quite clear that he wants to transform the Constitutional Convention into another senatorial chamber, because no votes are taken at the Convention. We know that  Senator Withers  is quite mesmerised with numbers. All he thinks about is marshalling numbers to bring about an amendment or a defeat of Government legislation. That is not the way in which the Constitutional Convention operates. It seeks a consensus. It seeks common ground with the States. It seeks areas in which the States and the Commonwealth agree on the presentation of a constitutional amendment to the Australian people. In that respect whom one represents in this place or the House of Representatives is quite irrelevant at the Constitutional Convention. I would imagine that if the proposal put forward by the Government in this place is agreed to, which would mean that the Opposition would be represented by 2 senators plus  Senator Hall, Senator Hall  would be more likely; having regard to his background and general experience in parliamentary life, to represent the views of the States in a conflict of opinion with the Commonwealth than members of the Opposition would be. He is certainly quite capable of representing the views of the States because, after all, he has held the highest office in a State, the premiership of South Australia. 
There is no reason for the matter to be determined on that basis because the Constitutional Convention seeks to find things upon which we can agree, not the things upon which we disagree. It is quite clear that  Senator Withers  has not had experience on the Constitutional Convention. The endeavour of the Commonwealth delegation is to find matters on which it can reach agreement with the States. On many occasions during the last Constitutional Convention meetings agreement was reached with all the States, with the exception of Queensland. The Premier of Queensland was in that case the maverick. He disagreed even with his conservative counterparts in New South Wales and Victoria. I urge the Senate to adopt the proposition that the Government has put forward because I think it is realistic. It has regard to the position in the Senate and to the fact that at the Constitutional Convention argument will take place about the philosophies of the relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. The Constitutional Convention does not endeavour to determine these matters on the basis of who one is or whom one represents or on the numerical strength of the political persuasions of the delegates to the Constitutinal Convention. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Catholic bishops of Chile and their Cardinal, Raul Silva Henriquez, have criticised the harsh arbitrary rule of terror which has operated in Chile since the coup in 1973? Has the Minister noted the kidnapping, brutal torture and illegal detention of an Australian citizen, Miss Alexandra Lamas, by the junta? Will the Minister inquire into the circumstances of the visit of Miss Lamas to Chile, and particularly the role played by  Mr Wilson,  the regional manager of the Chilean airline, Lan Chile, and his immediate colleagues to have Miss Lamas visit that country? In view of the whole sordid circumstances of this kidnapping, will the Minister discuss with the Minister for Transport the possibility of suspending the operations of Lan Chile for a period in order to indicate the Australian Government's complete displeasure at the junta's latest repudiation of decent human attitudes? 
The debate in the other place and in this chamber with respect to the 1974 Budget has been very disappointing so far as the Opposition is concerned. There have been endeavours to continue the policy of union bashing and Government bashing, a failure to put forward any contructive ideas on the depths of the problems which face this country in relation to inflationary pressures, an endeavour to ignore the positive features of the Budget and the making of suggestions on how best the Government should spend even additional public funds. One finds it difficult to understand the central theme of the Opposition Parties because they move so quickly from point to point. For example, in one moment we are accused of being dominated by the trade union movement. Subsequently we are told that the Government has not accepted a policy consideration of the Liberal Movement in South Australia to allow fares which are paid to and from work as concessions for taxation purposes. That happens to be one of the submissions made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions to the Government. It was not accepted. We hear a great deal of parochialism coming from representatives from different States, indicating once again that the Opposition Parties are bereft of any understanding of the economic problems which face the Western world. They are interested only in raising parochial matters and seeking to capitalise on some of the inadequate understanding of the problem which we have to face in this country. For example, statements have been made by honourable senators which seem to indicate that the problem of inflation in this country is purely domestic, that it does not exist anywhere else in the world and, in point of fact, that no other country is suffering from this sort of problem. Of course all honourable senators know that this is not the situation. We are witnessing just another attempt which is being made by the principal Opposition Parties to move an amendment in relation to the Budget which is before this place. It is proposing amendments which are meaningless in terms of their constructive attitudes to the 1974 Budget. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in one of his rare public appearances made a number of emotive statements. I draw them to the attention of the Senate. He spoke of the Budget as being an attempt to rob the rich and the poor. He said that the Budget is a double-dealing dishonest document, that it is encouraging inflation for its own program and so on. These sorts of statements reveal very clearly the bankruptcy of the Opposition Parties and the amendment which they seek to move does not in any way give any indication of the understanding of the Senate Opposition Parties to the sort of problem with which we are concerned. The Government has said from the outset that it does not see the Budget as anything more than a neutral Budget, playing some role in the current economic climate. There is abundant evidence to show that the United States and other powerful international financial interests in the post-war years have deliberately set out to create a surplus money supply. Their purpose was to use the depreciated money to finance war expenditure. No government could expect to finance the military involvement which we have seen in the postwar years, particularly in Vietnam. The creation of this false money value has helped to finance those costly expenditures. 
Of course inflation is a matter with which we are concerned in this country and which this Budget is supposed to have as its main purpose. This is despite the fact that the Government has denied that the Budget is part of its antiinflationary program. Inflation is a natural concomitant of capitalism. It seems to be a phenomenon connected with the highly industrialised countries, particularly in the Western world. There is some evidence to show that inflation is non-existent with the planned economies in the socialist world. In fact, there is very little evidence of them experiencing the sort of inflation that we are facing. I do not want honourable senators to draw the inference that this is just my summation of the problem. I refer to an article which reports a speech given to the Association of Economic Representatives in London recently by Professor H. G. Johnson who is Professor of Economics at the London School of Economics and Political Science and at the University of Chicago. I think it is interesting to read what he has to say in relation to this problem of inflation. He stated: 
The problem has to be looked at as a world problem, or at least as a problem of the Western or capitalist world. 
Speaking of the United Kingdom he stated: 
It is a serious mistake, which British economists are only too prone to make, to view the recent inflation in the United Kingdom as a unique problem in this country, to be explained by unique domestic factors and required to be handled by unique domestic measures. 
The fact is that however parochial politicians and their economic advisers and critics may be, we live in an integrated world economy. 
The relatively high degree of freedom of international trade and capital movement that now exists means that economic developments in any major country radiate through the whole international system. 
By the nature of the system everyone has to inflate together. 
In the 1950s and the 1960s, basically the United States economy was characterised by approximate stability of prices; and this exercised a stabilising influence on world prices. 
This characteristic changed with the escalation of the war in Vietnam, and especially with the failure of the Johnson administration to finance the escalation of the war by appropriate increase in domestic taxation. Instead the war was financed by inflation. And the inflation tax has fallen on the whole world economy, not merely the citizens of the United States. 
The world inflation, then, can be attributed largely to a change towards the inflationary behaviour on the part of the United States. There is no doubt that inflation is part of an international problem and that we are having great difficulty in curbing the inflationary pressures in this country. But the Australian Government cannot be blamed for this problem which arises from the system and is a problem which no other country has been able to solve. The contributions made in this chamber and in the other place indicate the inability of the Opposition Parties to have any understanding of the depth of the problem. It is a fundamental problem which faces Western countries. If one examines lists of member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development for which the annual rate of inflation is shown, one will see that it is established that in 1973 Australia was eleventh on the list. In a period to July 1974 Australia had slipped down to twelfth position and tied with Japan. Of course that was an improvement on the previous year. In any case, I submit that it is ludicrous to suggest that any country with a large trading stance can avoid overseas consequences. 
It is abundantly clear that there was an increase in the money supply in Australia under the Menzies to McMahon Administrations. The vast amounts of capital inflow plus the increased payments made by overseas purchasers of our primary goods have all contributed to a lot of excess money circulating in this country. The contemporary excess of inflation in Australia began in 1971. During the 2 years which followed over $2,000m more was spent on exports, about $3,000m more capital came in from overseas and the Australian banks and fringe organisations created another $2,000m more. It was in that great upsurge of money that inflation began to grow. It was private money in the private sector. The origin and force of the inflation with which we struggle is now private and it is also international. The workers and their wages and salaries have little to do with the problem. The best the workers could do was to set out to keep up with the inflation. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Irretrievable breakdown of marriage as the sole ground for divorce, as set down in the Family Law Bill 1 973 based on one years separation. 
Maintenance to be based on the needs of all the parties in a failed marriage. Effective automatic permanent entitlement to an ex-wife to be abolished. 
Emphasis to be placed on rehabilitation and retraining of estranged wives to enable them to be independent. 
Custody to be awarded in disputed cases on the basis of a qualified panel recommendation and to only take into account the material, moral and psychological well being of children involved, not the possessive demands of their parents. 
Matrimonial property to be divided equally, taking into account initial contributions. 
Costs of matrimonial proceedings to be divided equally. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Yesterday, I was speaking in support of the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget Papers and in oppositon to the amendment moved to that motion by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition. I was making the point that we in Australia are in a very difficult inflationary situation, as indeed are the people in most of the countries in the western world. I was able to produce some evidence to show that world economists, in analysing the problems facing the economies of the world, were stressing that the surplus money supply situation created deliberately by the American Government had now flowed into the economies of all the other countries tradingwith the United States of America. Professor Johnson pointed out that it was impossible for countries in a domestic situation to do anything that would have more than a minimal effect in curing this major international problem. I was also stating that, in addition to it being an international problem, it was a problem associated with the private sector of the economy. 
Since making those statements, I was fortunate enough to receive in the post this morning a copy of a speech made at a meeting of the Rotary Club of Sydney only a week ago yesterday by the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited,  Mr Valder.  I found that he made certain comments that only add to the points that I was making yesterday. He said: 
We are in the midst of a credit squeeze designed, one hopes, to rectify some of these inflationary problems. At the same time our market is being influenced by international factors: put simply- the threat of a developing world recession. Which means that we are not alone in our problems. 

 Mr Valder went on to say; I think it is important for Opposition senators to take this into consideration:   . . the Australian economy is still in pretty fair shapeliving standards are high, the level of employment is still (by any past standards) high, we still have our great natural resources, and we have largely escaped the consequences of the international oil crisis, . . . 
This is one of the points that  Dr Cairns  has been making. He has said that we are still in a fortunate position in this country. I think that statement underlines the fact that none of the current inflationary problems that we face in Australia is the result of the actions of this second Whitlam Labor Government, a government which has been in office for only 20 months. Subsequently, I will deal at much greater length with the attitude that the Opposition Parties are taking in respect of the Budget and the inflationary problems. I believe that their attitudes are inadequate, inane and insipid and are completely out of character with the responsible attitude that political parties should be taking at this time. However, at the moment I would like to deal with the Budget itself, to lay the dust on the wilful distortions by the Opposition Parties, particularly by  Mr Snedden  and his colleagues, and to try to present the Budget to the Australian people in an objective way. 
I said yesterday that the Budget has not set out to curb inflation. Having regard to what I have read to the Senate from the statements of international economists and other people, I think it could be said that no budget can curb inflation on the domestic front. The Government does not see the Budget as an instrument in the fight against inflation. The Budget represents an attempt to harmonise Government income with an expenditure planned to accommodate the Labor Government's electoral program which was endorsed by the people twice in the last 2 years. The Australian Government does not intend to follow the mishmash meanderings of the previous administrations. It does not intend to curtail public sector activity. It intends to press ahead with a program that was endorsed by the Australian people. Of course, the central strategy in the program of this Government is to transfer from the private sector such resources as will enable the public sector to fulfil its proper role in developing our nation. It is a responsible Budget because it intends to help all arms of government fulfil their public works programs. It is a responsible Budget because it seeks to improve the various groups in our community who need government help, whether they be war pensioners, age or invalid pensioners. It is a responsible Budget because it makes available an ever increasing amount to the States so that education, housing, sewerage, roads and public transport are not disadvantaged by private sector mismanagement of resources in this country. 
I want to refer to one of the Budget documents, which was made available on Budget night, to indicate to the Senate and to the people at large what this Government is about in its endeavours to transfer resources to the public sector. I am comparing the 1972-73 Snedden Budget with the Budget produced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in 1974-75. Over that 2-year period we have budgeted $2,4 19m more for public sector expenditure than was provided in the last Snedden Budget. Which Opposition senator is prepared to say that the money we are spending in the various sectors should be curtailed? For example, expenditure on education has gone from $259.4m to $1,172. 9m, an increase of $9 13 m. I have not heard any member of the Opposition parties, either in the other place or here, suggest that there should be a cut in the education budget. In health expenditure we have gone from $20.5m to $1 15.2m, and it is interesting to note that these are moneys which are being paid by the Commonwealth to State agencies. The Commonwealth's involvement in housing has gone from $24.2m in the last Snedden Budget to $263.2m. In the areas of urban and regional development we spent $ 1 m under Snedden. What a wonderful amount for a government to provide in accepting responsibility for the improving the life styles in our urban areas. The expenditure has gone from $ 1 m to $25 1 .7m in the Crean Budget. In the infrastructure areas, that is, transport and communication, water supply, electricity, labour and employment, industry assistance and other general public purposes, there has been an increase from the Snedden Budget of 2 years ago to the present Budget of $150m. 
I believe that the Government is in this Budget carrying out its responsibilities to endeavour to achieve balanced development in our community. It is a responsible Budget because taxation, particularly on the lower incomes, has been considerably reduced and in some cases almost eliminated. It is all very well for people to talk now about the problem of taxation when until this Budget the taxation scales were exactly the same as those that operated during the entire 23 years of the anti-Labor administrations. Yet this Government is criticised for not doing something about the taxation scales. We have brought about some reconstruction of the taxation scales on this occasion. It is interesting to read the criticism embraced in the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  and spoken to at length by all Opposition members relating to the transfer of funds from the private sector to the public sector via income tax. In its amendment the Opposition seeks to suggest that there is something wrong with the decision of the Government to collect 45 per cent more from this section of the taxation scale. It ignores the fact that in 1 962-63 the Commonwealth collected $54 lm from that same sector of income- pay as you earn taxation- and in 1964-65, in a comparable period, it collected $785.262m, which happens to be precisely the same increase of 45 per cent for which we are criticised on this occasion. 
This is a responsible Budget because for the first time local government has been recognised as a vital third arm in the trinity of government in this country with the magnificent untied grant- no strings attached- of $56m. It is the first time in the history of this country that the Commonwealth has accepted financial responsibility for local government and given it assistance. It is a responsible Budget because for the first time the Australian Government has embarked on a major 5-year program to expand and modernise public hospitals and other health institutions in the States. It is a responsible Budget because the Government has put its money where its mouth is as far as Aborigines are concerned, spending $164m in this financial year, the greatest amount ever allocated to help our indigenous people. It is a responsible Budget because we have allocated record amounts to the States for public housing, for the establishment of a new Australian housing corporation and for the further liberalising of loans for defence service homes. It is a responsible Budget because it has allocated record sums for urban redevelopment to improve materially the life styles of the great majority of the Australian people. It is a responsible Budget because we have allocated for the first time $12m for a legal aid service to give assistance to the lower income groups and to poor and disadvantaged people, particularly our own indigenes. 
I could go on and on itemising the great new initiatives taken by this Government, initiatives that undoubtedly are being engulfed by the obtuse attitude taken by the Opposition and by sections of the daily Press. Some of those who write the daily Press editorials never seem to find time to read the small print, never seem to find time to give credit where it is due. If they did that I am sure a lot of the rubbish and trash that is printed as editorial comment in some of the more biased journals in our country would not appear. I do not glibly say that there are no weaknesses in this Budget. The increased Post Office charges, brought about largely by the imposition by the Treasury of interest rate charges year by year on the Post Office- an amount of $200m will be paid to Consolidated Revenue this year- are to be regretted. I hope the time will come when this Government will be able to bring about the necessary reorganisation of the Post Office so that we can have an efficient public instrumentality, one able to give service at a resonable price to the Australian community. 
I deal now with the criticisms that have been levelled at the Government by some of the State 
Premiers, particularly the Premier of New South Wales. Of course the Government has to have this criticism levelled at it from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and from Opposition speakers here. They tell the Government how it should have done this and how it should have done that in this Budget. Words fail me when I find that Opposition speakers are suggesting further expenditure of public moneys in the public sector. What is the real position? The facts are that in terms of the Budgets from 1972 to 1974, that is the Snedden Budget and the Crean Budget, there was an increase in general revenue assistance to the States of some 40 per cent over the 2-year period. Special grants show a similar increase of some 40 per cent. More funds are being made available to the States now than ever before in the history of the Commonwealth. I can only say to those who are endeavouring to create the impression that the States have to increase their Budgets in order to make up the leeway that there must be something wrong with the administration of the State organisations. Honourable senators might like to look at table 3, the estimates of receipts and summary of estimated expenditure, to make a comparison of the amounts allocated to the States in 1973-74 and 1974-75. Last year, in terms of expenditure, payments to the States represented 28 per cent of the national Budget. This year they have increased to 30 per cent. Last year, of course, it was an even higher increase, something like 27 per cent on the previous year. So there is just no truth in the exaggerated claims made by the Opposition Parties and the State Premiers. 
I would like to add emphasis to the point that has been made by  Senator Steele  Hall about the attitude of the Opposition Parties to the Budget and to the economic questions and problems facing this country. I have here a copy of the speech made by  Mr Snedden  titled 'Economic Policy Statement for a Liberal-Country Party Government'. What did he say in this document? He said that in a 1 974-75 Budget to be introduced in August a Liberal government would reduce the rate of growth in total government spending. Anybody can read in Hansard that in his speech in the other place he criticised the Australian Government for not making more funds available to the States. We have had honourable senators in this place suggesting that the Australian Government should have made more money available for the States and for public expenditure. So here we have the Leader of the Liberal Party and the alternate Prime Minister, himself a former Treasurer, suggesting that there should be a cut in the rate of growth. 
He also says that we should reduce taxation. It is interesting to read one article which I have time to deal with today. It appeared in the 'Age' and was written by the economics writer on 25 September. The heading is: 'Snedden confuses his cures'. The article goes on to say that  Mr Snedden  said that Australia's economy is in a mess- 'The Leader of the Opposition made this point well last night' said the economics writer. But let us analyse what the Leader of the Opposition said. He said that the first priority should be for this Government to deal with inflation. Then he pointed out that we have to do this by maintaining economic growth and full employment. One does not have to be an economist to appreciate that these 2 questions are closely related. 
The article went on to say that  Mr Snedden  said that we have to stop unemployment, which he claims is 2. 1 7 per cent and rising. Of course, he does not tell the Australian people that in the last year of his office, and I am sure that he will concede that we could not be blamed for the unemployment figures as at December 1972, the figure was 2.39 per cent of the work force. We had been in office only a matter of days when those figures became available. Here he is complaining, and rightly so, that we had to stop unemployment which had reached 2. 1 7 per cent. If  Mr Snedden  believes unemployment should be reduced then from his standpoint the Budget is not sufficiently expansionary. Surely he would have to take the view that the Budget should go further in public spending. 

 Mr Snedden said that he would reduce taxation by $ 1 ,000m, that he would cut government spending by 25 per cent and that this would result, according to his own figures, in a saving on expenditure of something like $900m. In other words, we would cut income by about $ 1,000m and expenditure by about $900m. This would mean that there would not be much difference between the present Government's Budget and that suggested by  Mr Snedden.  For example, if consumption spending grows as a result of spending in the private sector it is difficult to see how private investment can decline and avoid another situation of demand inflation. I think the point can be made quite correctly that if we have a growth in private consumption plus a cutback in government spending it would lead to higher business confidence and a higher level of investment spending. So we would be confronted with the same sort of money supply position which was evident when this Government came into office. I refer the Senate to the statement issued by the Treasurer a few days ago in which he pointed out that in the 1972-73 period the money supply had increased by 26 per cent, which, he said, was clearly excessive. He said that the policy in 1973 has been directed to slowing growth in the money supply and the increase during the year was held to 14 per cent. 
So  Mr Snedden  does not seem to have any clear path to follow and does not seem to have any understanding of the economic situation facing our country. If the squeeze is relaxed, as he has suggested, then investment spending will accelerate. If investment picks up we will soon be back into that vicious demand inflationary period which was evident in the early part of 1973, and the Government sector will be competing with the private sector for resources, forcing up prices again as they did a year ago. And as happened in 1973 it will be the private sector that will get on top of the public sector. The Leader of the Opposition is attacking the Government for, to use his words, 'the brutal treatment of the States at the Loan Council gathering in June'. He also suggested that there is something wrong with the fall in defence expenditure. Is he suggesting that we should get it back to the level at which it was in his period of office? If he is suggesting that the pro rata rate should be increased to 3.5 per cent of the gross national product it would mean the expenditure of an additional $500m and a further increase in Government spending. It reminds me of a story about the lion and the bull which goes something like this: 'The lion sprang upon the bull and devoured him. After he had feasted he felt so good that he roared and roared. The noise attracted hunters and they killed the lion. The moral of which is that when you are full of bull, keep your mouth shut'. 
I would like to refer in the few moments I have left to some of  Mr Snedden  's infamous remarks on the economy during the period 1970 to 1973. In a debate in the House of Representatives on 27 August 1970 he said: 
Unfortunately we have not solved all our economic problems. One might say: 'Which country has?' Inflationary pressures are still with us. Over the decade 1959-60 to 1969-70 the consumer price index rose at an annual rate of nearly  2Vi  per cent. Over the last 5 years the average annual increase has been a little over 3 per cent. Last year the increase was nearly 4 per cent. And in the June quarter of 1 970 it was at an annual rate in excess of 5 per cent. It is true that prices have risen even faster in many other countries, but whereas the inflation rate is tending to slow down overseas it is tending to rise in Australia. 
Words of wisdom from the potential Prime Minister of Australia. But listen to these words of wisdom, these little gems, that came from the Leader of the Opposition. He continued: 
When these pressures are running high you need high interest rates to induce people to save and lend. 
What lovely words of wisdom to fall from the mouth of the man who, as Treasurer, held the economic reins of this country for some two or three years and failed to arrest the inflationary trend. Later on he said: 
We live in an atmosphere today that encourages cost-push inflation. 
On 18 February 1971 he said:   to apply the wrong remedy would mean creating new problems, such as under-employment and underproduction which other countries are experiencing, without curing the problem of inflation. 
These other countries still have a higher inflation rate than we have. Later on he said: 
The economic outlook for 1971, as it appears, is that in 1971 there is an excess demand threat, but excess demand does not presently exist. 
In another part of the speech he said: 
In Australia there is a danger of excess demand. 
I cannot quite follow his reasoning or even his statements in the one speech. Then he said: 
After the last Budget was presented other decisions were taken which could have resulted in an over-expansionary Budget . . . Current wage inflation does not necessarily mean that there will be an excess demand . . . There may be no actual excess demand for goods as distinct from excess prices. 
In one speech, on one day and in one place  Mr Snedden  contradicted himself on 3 different occasions. On 17 August 1971 when speaking in the debate on the Appropriation Bill he stated: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape its Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. Australia is in the grip of inflationary pressures. 
This was said by the Treasurer at that time. He continued: 
The rate of increase in costs and prices is already fast and has tended to become faster. This is a serious condition. If allowed to develop unchecked it will cause increasing economic and social hardship to many people, add to the burdens of rural industries already depressed - 
One would think that rural industries had never been depressed before there was a Labor Government.  Mr Snedden  is admitting that in the period when he was Treasurer depression already existed in many rural areas. He continued: disrupt development plans of great promise and undermine the rich possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds . . . 
On 1 December 1 97 1  Mr Snedden  in attacking an Opposition motion of censure on the Government stated: 
An Opposition can attempt to obtain political advantage out of difficult international and domestic economic circumstances. But it can be regarded as responsible only if it has an economic platform for examination and review . . . The Government, in early 1971, took action to impose restraint in areas where restraint seemed to be necessary- public spending, private investment in new plant and equipment and non-dwelling building construction. Given this background it was natural that accompanying the strategy adopted in the last Budget was an element designed to guard against the future development of excess demand pressures. 
So we have  Mr Snedden,  who is the alternative Prime Minister, suggesting certain courses of action which this Government has already taken in relation to the current economic position in our country. Discussing the Budget strategy later in 1972  Mr Snedden  said: 
We see it as a critically important objective of our policy to combat the inflationary forces now running in our economy and it is against this objective that I now come to explain the strategy of this Budget and our decision to raise additional revenue. The chief instruments available to this Government and its related authorities are the annual Budget.  . . Since there will still be, within Australia, a considerable increase in Commonwealth spending, it must at least be offset by an increase in Commonwealth domestic receipts from taxation and other sources of revenue. 
There we have the alternative Prime Minister, the former Treasurer, using precisely the same tactic and the same strategy which the Government has used in this Budget. We are talking about the 1971 Budget.  Mr Snedden  stated: 
Company tax will rise to raise $24m. It is proposed to raise a large part of the balance of our revenue requirements through the personal income tax rather than add to sales tax. Accordingly we propose to increase the2½ per cent levy to 5 percent. 
So we have the Leader of the Opposition suggesting that there is something wrong with the Government applying the principle and tactic of raising additional revenue by personal taxation when he did precisely that in 1 97 1 . He stated: 
We propose to increase the rates of custom and excise duties on cigarettes and cigars . . . 
Incidentally, if one examines the income in the current Budget one sees that there is a fall-off. Whereas in the Snedden Budget of 1972-73 there was an excise income of 13.8 per cent in Federal Revenue, this figure has dropped to 1 1.4 per cent in 1974-75. So we can go on and on pointing out the inadequacies of the approach of the Opposition to this problem of the Budget. We point out that the Opposition has no real alternative policy to offer to the Australian people. I call upon the Senate to reject the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition because it does not accord with the past experience and practice of the Opposition Parties when they were in government. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports suggesting that the Treasury had strongly opposed the 1974-75 Budget presented to the Parliament by the Treasurer? Is the Minister aware that these reports suggested increased taxation and higher unemployment as a cure for inflation? Is the Minister further aware that a former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  has criticised similar Treasury advice given to him in 1971-72? Has the Minister seen further reports suggesting that Treasury has placed a submission before the Treasurer arguing for a higher tax on lump sum superannuation payments? Will the AttorneyGeneral institute an inquiry into these reports to establish their authenticity or otherwise? If they are found to be genuine, will the Minister advise the Senate how the reports came to be published before the Parliament and the Cabinet had an opportunity to consider their contents? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to Treasury Taxation Paper No. 5, details of which have been published in today's Press? Has the Minister noted that the Treasury officials suggest that food, clothing and other daily durables should be subject to sales tax to increase Australian Government revenue? Will the Minister agree that this proposition would be highly inflationary? Is it not the policy of the Australian Government to reduce the incidence of indirect taxation? 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report that the New South Wales Minister for Education,  Mr Willis,  was astounded recently to discover that the average school age child in Australia watches television for 28 hours a week? Has he noted that this report quotes  Mr Willis  as saying that he had a check made by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to discover this figure? Can the Minister indicate what power the New South Wales Minister for Education has to direct the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in its audience research activities? 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That whereas the Budget Paper No. 9 titled 'Australia's External Aid 1 974-75 ' allocated $ 150,000 for 'humanitarian assistance to National Liberation Movements in Africa'; 
And whereas the humanitarian needs of these oppressed people require greater assistance from Australia than the above amount allocated in the budget; 
And whereas such assistance is in keeping with that provided by Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, The Netherlands, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and New Zealand, and United Nations Organisations such as UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR, FAO and WHO, and such non-Government organisations as the World Council of Churches, the Australian Freedom From Hunger Campaign, Community Aid Abroad, and some Roman Catholic Aid Agencies in Europe; 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to substantially increase the abovementioned humanitarian assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 7 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Irretrievable breakdown of marriage as the sole ground for divorce, as set down in the Family Law Bill 1973 based on one year's separation. 
Maintenance to be based on the needs of all the parties in a failed marriage. Effective automatic permanent entitlement to an ex-wife to be abolished. 
Emphasis to be placed on rehabilitation and retraining of estranged wives to enable them to be independent. 
Custody to be awarded in disputed cases on the basis of a qualified panel recommendation and to only take in to account the material, moral and psychological well being of children involved, not the possessive demands of their parents. 
Matrimonial property to be divided equally, taking into account initial contributions.  (0  Costs of matrimonial proceedings to be divided equally. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a similar petition has been presented by  Senator Martin  I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the price of bread in New South Wales has risen to 41c a loaf, the fourth increase in 5 months? Has the Minister noted that this rise means that the price of bread- a staple part of family diet- has risen by 32 per cent since the Federal elections in May? Does the Minister acknowledge that monopolisation is now a feature of the baking industry and that this rise is the highest commodity rise in the period? Will the Government give urgent consideration to ordering an inquiry into the blatant disregard of community interests by bread manufacturers? 
I present the following petition from 49 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That where as the Budget Paper No. 9 titled Australia's External Aid 1974-75 allocated $150,000 for humanitarian assistance to National Liberation Movements in Africa: 
And whereas the humanitarian needs of these oppressed people require greater assistance from Australia than the above amount allocated in the budget; 
And whereas such assistance is in keeping with that provided by Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, The Netherlands, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and New Zealand, and United Nations Organisations such as UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR, FAO and WHO, and such non-government organisations as the World Council of Churches, the Australian Freedom From Hunger Campaign, Community Aid Abroad, and some Roman Catholic Aid Agencies in Europe; 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to substantially increase the abovementioned humanitarian assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present a petition from 40 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral noted the remarks made by  Mr Justice  Head in Sydney last week in sentencing Jacob Suljak, Tomo Juricic and Ante Lasic? Is it a fact that these Croatian extremists have been recommended for deportation? Is this the second occasion on which New South Wales judges have recommended their deportation? Were these 3 terrorist persons named in the AttorneyGeneral 's report on Croatian terrorism in February 1973? Have 2 juries and judges found them guilty of violent behaviour? Is the AttorneyGeneral able to say why the previous Government rejected the advice of the judge and the recommendation of the Commonwealth Commissioner of Police in 1969? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted that, in spite of some tedious adjournment debates in the Senate, our evenings have been considerably brightened by our senators of the fairer sex coming into the Senate in the evenings refurbished and elegantly attired? Is the Minister aware that there are no showers, bathrooms or dressing rooms provided for these senators as there are for other members of the Senate? Is this not another form of discrimination which has been carried on for far too long? In the circumstances will the Government give immediate consideration to providing suitable facilities for the senators and so encourage their innovative endeavours? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: . 
that for religion to be spiritual, and government to be liberal and egalitarian, religion and government need to be kept separate. 
that this principle is fully recognised in Section 1 16 of the Australian Constitution. 
that the taxing of any citizens to propagate or support any religion is contrary to this principle, and a violation of human right. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that Pan II, Section 3, of the proposed Bill of Human Rights, which now reads: 
No one shall be subject to coercion which will impair his freedom to have or to adopt a belief or religion of his choice, be amended to read further: and no revenue derived in any way from any Australian citizen shall be appropriated by the Australian Government, or by a State Government, or by a Municipal Government, for the propagation or support of any religion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the motion for the second reading of the Family Law BUI not because I happen to be a member of a political party or a representative of a political party in this place but because of how in my lifetime I have come to understand human relationships and the need for marriage and divorce to be dealt with in such a way as to remove the areas of unhappiness, frustration and indignity which have been a characteristic of such human relationships in time. I do not think any person would disagree with me when I say that the most important decision 2 individuals make in their lifetime is when they decide to get married. But we have only to look at the general experience to find out that many of those marriages are made in such a way and among such personalities as to create difficulties which lead to some disruption and finally separation. 
I think that the Family Law BUI is a humane and important piece of legislation. It is a BUI which should receive the endorsement on a nonpartisan basis of the Senate and subsequently, I would hope, the House of Representatives. I think that it represents the first real examination the Senate has made of the subjects of marriage and divorce since the Matrimonial Causes Act was passed in 1959. That means that 15 years have elapsed since the Parliament has had an opportunity to review the very important legislation which was introduced by  Sir Garfield  Barwick at that time and which established new principles, new guidelines, new objectives and, for the first dme on a national basis, a uniform divorce law based on the principle of no fault when human relationships reach the point of complete and utter break down. 
I believe that this Bill is an inevitable development of the BUI which was introduced upon the initiatives of the Opposition parties when in government some 1 5 years ago. I believe that this Bill is an evolutionary development of that BUI and that it had to happen regardless of the personalities and the reasons that the Senate set about to review the whole problem associated with matrimony in this country. 
However one would imagine that the Senate, the parliaments generally and the Australian people are faced with a somewhat different and a somewhat rushed situation- a position in which little thought has been given to the very human problems which face so many in our community -and that in point of fact the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and those associated with them have been endeavouring to foist upon the Australian people, without adequate discussion and consideration, a new concept in marriage. I put to the Senate that in this respect the Australian Labor Party when it dealt with the matter at a federal conference in 1971, did not set down policy matters for the Party to follow. It determined that a parliamentary committee should be set up to inquire into the growing complaints that the divorce, custody and maintenance laws were operating unjustly and inefficiently. It is interesting to note that in 1971  Senator Murphy  was able to persuade the Senate to refer to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the following matter: The law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters with particular regard to oppressive delays, costs, indignities and other injustices. One must have regard to the fact that the Party which he leads in this place was a minority Party and that there was a very vocal group, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, in this chamber. Despite these objective conditions of difficulties,  Senator Murphy  was able to prevail upon the Senate to refer the matter to the Standing Committee. 
The Senate decided to refer to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs this matter. On 18 March 1972, which is 2V4 years ago, advertisements in the Press throughout Australian invited interested persons and bodies to lodge submissions on this reference to the Senate Committee. Individual invitations were extended to bodies and persons thought to be interested in a review of the Matrimonial Causes Act. On 31 October 1972, an interim report of the Standing Committee recommended to the Government that discretion statements be no longer required. It is common knowledge that subsequently, with the change of government, in January 1973  Senator Murphy  sought to introduce certain changes to the Matrimonial Causes Act. We know what happened to them. We know that subsequently a Bill was introduced into the Parliament this year. On 1 April 1974 the Attorney-General announced his proposal to introduce new legislation. The dissolution of Parliament changed that. Therefore, it was not until the first session after the double dissolution that the Family Law Bill was presented to this Parliament for its consideration. 
It is interesting to note that it was on the initiative of  Senator Murphy  that this Bill was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Currently, recommendations from that Committee are embodied in the Bill. Therefore, I am amazed that in the numerous letters which we are receiving, particularly from the Anglican church, there is the suggestion that  Senator Murphy  is in all haste and impatience endeavouring to foist this legislation on the Australian people. That is not borne out by the facts. I think it must be said that  Senator Murphy,  the Standing Committee and, I hope, the Parliament have given due consideration to these matters. I refer to the official records which are before the Senate to endorse those remarks. I refer to the evidence given by  Mr Watson  to the Standing Committee. He said: 

 Senator Murphy has throughout insisted that our work upon the Family Law Bill and other reforms reflect the well known criteria set down in England in 1966 which I slightly paraphrase to state- 
A good family law should buttress, rather than undermine, the stability of marriage; where a marriage has irretrievably broken down, the legal shell should be destroyed with the maximum fairness, and the minimum bitterness, distress and humiliation. 
From my discussions with him, I believe that  Senator Murphy  would wish to add 3 other criteria- The future of the children of a broken marriage needs consideration by the best possible tribunal assisted by the skills of welfare officers and other counselling staff wherever needed; the financial disputes between the spouses should be resolved as quickly and finally as possible; the whole process should be performed with dignity, relative privacy and with as little expense as possible. 
He also said: 
This Bill is about family conflicts- not divorce; it therefore deals with the welfare of children, maintenance, property, protection of the marriage and the people involved therein (by injunction if necessary), marriage counselling, on going help in custody and access problems. Hence its true title, a Family Law Bill. 
I wonder whether those senators who have spoken in the debate, particularly those who have spoken today, have read the report so ably placed before the Parliament by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. Have they taken into consideration the views of that Committee? I do not suggest that every member of that Committee has agreed to underwrite all recommendations that the Committee has made or that they will necessarily support all amendments which will be placed before the Committee of the Whole. I am assured by members of the Standing Committee that  Senator Murphy  has acceded substantially to the overwhelming majority of recommendations of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. What did the Committee state? It stated: 
The Committee welcomes the Bill . . . 
This is not a majority decision, this is the Committee's findings. I continue: 
The Committee welcomes the Bill as a whole and whilst not commenting on the sociological policy background of the Bill, does commend the expressed intention of simplifying and humanising the present law relating to matrimonial causes. 
I believe that the purpose of the Bill is to create more equality for married persons, more equality in human relationships and to put man and wife on an equal basis. Surely no member of the Senate or no member of the community believes that in the horrific situation of a breakdown of marriage both partners have equal resources, equal rights and equal opportunities to resolve their differences, leading ultimately if not to a marriage counsellor at least to the courts for a dissolution of the marriage. I believe that the purpose of this Bill is to create a more equal position. 
Many groups in the community are prepared to give support to the proposals embodied in the Bill. If one were to believe what has been said by some honourable senators today or if one were to believe the petitions and the letter writing campaign, one would believe that the overwhelming majority of the Australian people was opposed to the tenets of this Bill. Every public opinion poll that has been taken has shown an overwhelming majority of support for the basic principles of the Bill. In one particular case- and I think it was 

 Senator Missen who referred to this several weeks ago when the matter was being discussed -people were asked precisely whether they supported the Murphy Bill. The figures  Senator Missen  gave on that occasion confirm the figures I received from the Library- that something like three out of four Australian people support the general principles embodied in this Bill. 
In supporting the second reading speech I am not suggesting that I will necessarily vote consistently in support of or against all of the amendments. Clearly, because this is a private member's Bill, honourable senators will take different attitudes at different stages of the debate, but I think it is important that the Senate should endorse the second reading and enable us to go on to determine the fate of the Bill. Opponents of this Bill have many avenues open to them. Obviously there was a meeting of those who oppose the Bill and the general tactic which was accepted by a wide variety of those people was to suggest that there should be a 6-months delay. That tactic suddenly changed. I do not know whether I have been specially selected, but I have received letters, a number of which I have not even opened, telegrams and petitions suggesting that there should be a delay of 3 months. The letters are available for perusal by honourable senators. They have all been typed on the one typewriter, they have all got the same sort of stamp on them, they were all posted at the same time and over half a dozen of them were written on the same type of paper. I think one therefore has to draw the conclusion that it is a pretty well organised effort. 
As I have said, the opponents of the Bill sought a delay of 6 months and then changed their tactic to a delay of 3 months. The Senate finds itself in the absurd position where it is regaled from both sides of the chamber on the same day by a senator presenting a petition supporting the Bill and the same senator presenting a petition opposing the Bill. All honourable senators know that the Senate Standing Committee on Standing Orders has been requested to review the presentation of petitions as a result of the absurd position that has developed in relation to this matter. 

 Senator Carrick has today suggested that the Bill be referred to a select committee of the Senate. This is another delaying tactic. We know that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson wants to delay the Bill for 6 months. Obviously he has not caught up with the change in tactics seeking a 3 months delay to which I referred a moment ago. We could even have the Senate adopting the principle of filibustering at the second reading stage or, if that does not succeed, filibustering in the Committee stages. All those subterfuges are within the province of those who want to resort to them in order to defeat the purpose of the Bill and to delay a proper consideration of it. In other words, those who seek to oppose the Bill or to delay it have many avenues available to them. 
I do not know whether time will permit me to go into any great detail on the Bill itself but I do want to make some further reference to the opposition to the Bill. The Bill has been subjected to a massive letter writing campaign. As I have said, honourable senators have been bombarded with letters containing the same phraseology and the same point of view. I do not want to create the impression here or anywhere else that I would take away the democratic right of people to lobby their elected representatives. I think it is very good that interest in the Bill should be expressed, but I am sure that most of us would agree that the sort of campaign I am referring to does not move us at all. In fact, it probably goes the other way and hardens one's attitude because of the infantile tactics that are adopted by some groups of people. 
It is interesting that those tactics seem to have been developed largely in the Sydney metropolitan area and in the Anglican Synod area. Most of the letters that I have received in recent weeks have come from ministers of the Church of England, a church that grew out of bigamy but which has been pretty conservative over the years in these matters. Let me say that I have no animosity towards the Church of England because I was an Anglican myself until marriage and I have a close relative who has been a bishop of that church for many years. But I do find it somewhat difficult to understand the inability of ministers of that church to examine the Bill and to draw the conclusions which any right thinking persons can draw if they consider the Bill in an atmosphere which is free of prejudice and bigotry. 
It seems to me that when one reads the correspondence one is entitled to draw the conclusion that this has become a politically oriented campaign. I do not take away the right of the churches and associated groups to influence the processes of government. In fact, I welcome this influence, but I think it is regrettable that some groups, particularly those to which I have referred and the inappropriately named Festival of Light, choose to use deception and distortion of the facts to panic well meaning Christians into ink. Their tactic is usually the same. It starts with an over dramatisation of the facts. This is followed by an innuendo that the Bill has some sinister or hidden concepts for the Christian or for the Christian way of life. This hand-up message is then passed from the pulpit by more politically aware persons. 
These are the people who told the community that abortion was murder. It is interesting to note that they have done nothing to prevent the fairly reliably estimated 100,000 abortions which are known to take place in Australia every year, but when the Parliament was considering that particular social question, again on a non-party basis, it was bombarded with arguments about the protection of life. Yet nothing is done about it once the Parliament has had an opportunity to dispose of that particular resolution. It seems to me that the same group is behind the intensive campaign to have this Bill deferred. 
Without in any way suggesting that honourable senators who have taken that point of view are a party to this campaign, I want them to appreciate that there are people outside the Parliament who seem to have some different motivation to that of honourable senators. The message that is being told from the pulpit and amongst groups of Christians, particularly in the Sydney region, is that the Family Law Bill will basically alter the whole concept of marriage in our society. We know this is not so, and the abundant evidence which was placed before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs by reputable people, people engaged in this jurisdiction, people who have spent a great portion of their working lives in this area, shows clearly and concisely that this Bill simply changes the concept of divorce. It is as simple as that. 
I am appreciative of those honourable senators who have been able to understand the motivation of those who drew up the Bill, of those who have been involved in the public discussion on this Bill, and who therefore understand what the Bill seeks to achieve. There can be no hidden or sinister motives behind the Bill. It will affect only those marriages that fail or are failing. There is sufficient evidence in the Bill- in fact,  Senator Murphy  has agreed to the great majority of the suggestions that have come from the Senate Committee- to substantiate the fact that its basic objective is to buttress and to save marriage. But where a marriage is finished, the sooner the legal shell is wiped away the better it is for the partners to the marriage and for the community. It will take the shabbiness out of divorce. It will take the great costs out of divorce. It will take the lies, the deceit and the blackmail out of divorce. Surely every member of this Parliament- every member who has had anything to do with public life- will know the tragic circumstances that have faced so many failed marriages and the tactics to which the parties to those marriages have had to resort- the lies, the false advice, the deceitful advice and the blackmail which one partner to the marriage seeks to place upon the other partner in an endeavour to find a way to break the marriage legally. 
This Bill seeks only to replace the" outdated divorce laws with more contemporary legislation. After all, is not the role of the Parliament to be constantly updating the laws of the land? It was only in 1857 that the first divorce legislation was considered by the English Parliament which had been functioning for 200 years. Of course, the hysteria at that time played some part in preventing a proper examination being made of the divorce legislation. The same sort of hysteria was synonymous with the Australian legislation which was introduced in 1959 to which honourable senators have already referred in this debate. At that time supporters of the Government of the day were subjected to the same sort of pressure, opposition and disgraceful conduct to which this Government is being subjected at the present time. It even affected the role of the  President  of the day. 
I have already referred to the fact that there can be no suggestion that the Bill is being rushed through the Parliament. In point of fact, the record shows for anyone who is prepared to look at it objectively and fairly that the Senate has had before it for some 3 years an opportunity to make up its mind about contemporary divorce legislation. This Bill has the support of" the vast majority of lawyers, social workers, marriage counsellors, psychiatrists and other groups within the community. I well recall in the various activities in which I was involved as the  president  of the Sutherland Shire Council for 9 years, calling together local community groups for the purpose of setting up community organisations and counselling organisations, and establishing a social worker within the Council. The experience of every one of those people from all the community groups who came together in the Council of Social Services within the area pf the Sutherland Shire Council was that at some stage they had suggested that there was a need for more updated and modern type legislation to deal with this problem of human relations between 2 human beings. 
I am concerned that the Festival of Light organisation, which seems to be the principal core of the opposition to this legislation, is developing into an ultra-conservative political group, using the cloak of the Church and of morality to attract community support. I am sure that there are people at all levels of that movement who do not want that to happen and who do not realise that they are being used by the people in the leadership of the organisation. I will give but one example for honourable senators opposite. At a recent Festival of Light meeting at Miranda in Sydney, which is the area in which I live, one of the group leaders, the Reverend Nile, took great delight in deriving the most positive responses from the audience to his cry: 'Do you want this man as Premier?' The man whom he had on the platform was the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party in New South Wales,  Mr Willis.  If that is not a political overt act, I do not know what is. After all, that denies to  Mr Maddison, Mr Lewis  and any other member of the Liberal Party in that State equal rights in the ballot for the leadership of the Liberal Party in New South Wales which is to take place in Sydney tomorrow.  Mr Willis  happened to be present at that meeting and he adopted a certain attitude. That indicates the politicisation that took place at a meeting that we called for the purpose of discussing the Family Law Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I may have misrepresented the position of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. It is true that his amendment takes into account the changed position of those who had previously suggested there should be a 6 months delay. I understand his amendment seeks to delay the Bill until the autumn session in February or March of 1975. 1 had been referring to the degree of opposition that has been whipped up to this Bill. I believe the opposition has become irrational and irresponsible. It does no good to the community or to those who have a reasonable and logical position to express in respect of the far-reaching consequences of the Family Law Bill. It is many years since we have seen the fanatics using the pulpit to bring the Church into politics. It is something which I think the community will regret unless it understands what is happening in respect of these social questions. I sincerely hope that people become aware of the aims of the leaders of this group and ultimately appreciate the undesirability of bringing the Church back into the political arena. I think there is a difference between having a stance on this and other social questions and the endeavours to bring the Church into the direct political arena. 
I have said that this Bill does not change the concept of marriage. It simply makes for an easy arrangement in difficult circumstances. The last figures that I have been able to examine show that about 18,000 divorces take place each year. It is interesting to note that under the existing law it is possible for 33 per cent of the people desiring to have a divorce to take action for a divorce at any time. This applies also to those who want to use the grounds of drunkenness and crueltyanother 11 per cent of the people involved. So, 44 per cent of the people are able to get a divorce even within the period of 1 year. Yet we are being led to believe by the campaign that has been waged that we are making divorce easier and that in fact we are about to destroy the family unit and the sanctity of the marriage contract. It is interesting also to note, for those who are endeavouring to bring to the forefront of the debate the problems of young children, that some 33 per cent of all the divorces which take place in this country involve no children at all. 
I do not have a great deal more to say beyond pointing out that an increasing number of people are not resorting to church marriages but are being married by civil marriage celebrants or in registry offices. Of course, an increasing number of people are not even resorting at all to the institution of marriage. I do not believe that it is the responsibility of the law to impose upon an ever increasing number of people any responsibilities about maintaining that sort of marriage situation. Surely it is wrong for the law to intrude to any major extent in this sort of relationship. After all, the law is not involved in the formative period of the marriage. There are no guidelines established. People are able to make up their own minds about living together whether legally or illegally. People are able to decide whom they want to marry. The law does not involve itself in that experience at all. There is no apprenticeship and no guidelines for people who decide they want to join themselves together in some relationship. It seems wrong, therefore, that the law should play a particularly heavy role, as it has done hitherto, for those who want to cast aside that legal contract. I do not understand the reasoning of some honourable senators who have spoken in the debate today. I refer in particular to  Senator Carrick  who said that the Government should be about making laws to make marriage work. Marriage is a human relationship and I do not think any laws, procedures, policies or principles can make a marriage work. The only thing which can make a marriage work is the ability of 2 people to live together. 
That is right. If a marriage does break down surely the cleaner and sooner it can be broken the better it is for the community and for those persons concerned. After all it is a personal matter involving the lives of 2 people. I have spoken a great deal about opposition. Having regard to the comments that I made about the Anglican people in Sydney I think I ought to say that the Secretary of the Synod in the diocese of Melbourne has been good enough to forward a resolution of the attitude of the Anglican Church in that big city. I also have a copy of a letter which was sent to all of the newspapers by the Social Responsibility Committee of the Congregational Union of New South Wales. It likewise indicates its support of the general principles of the Bill. I have seen the public statements of a Catholic priest in Adelaide who has been involved in marriage guidance work and who seeks to give support to the principles of the Bill. ' 
I am struck by the words and the views of people like Judge Butnett of South Australia who drew the attention of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to facts which I had not considered previously. Judge Burnett said: 
One of the things that horrified me about the matrimonial causes jurisdiction was the way that people were forced to resort to courts. Many of them who had never been to court before in their lives had no idea what it was about, were taken to some frightening Supreme Court building where they sat in grim old corridors without even private rooms to discuss their problems with counsel. 
He went on to mention the innovative methods with which the South Australian Government has been associated. There were many witnesses to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee from a wide variety of organisations including the Law Council of Australia and groups from Western Australia associated with the legal fraternity. In fact, the whole weight of the evidence of members of the legal fraternity who have been involved in this whole area of human relationships has indicated the need for the legislative processes to catch up with community attitudes. 
I commend the Committee. I think it has done a tremendous job to bring to public gaze and public debate the crux of the problem which was first brought to public debate in 1959. Now in 1974 we have a responsibility as a Parliament to update the legislation. I think we must pay tribute to those persons, from  Senator Murphy  right down to all the members of the Committee, who applied themselves assiduously to this task and who withstood the criticism that has clearly had political motivation, although I do not think party political motivation, because I recall having read that the Liberal Party as well as the Labor Party has adopted a pretty good contemporary attitude towards this whole question of reform of divorce legislation. I commend those who have been involved. I am hopeful that the Senate will, in its judgment, support the second reading of this Bill and in the Committee stage will do nothing that will materially alter the basic structure of the Bill. I am concerned that adoption of the amendment that has been projected by  Senator Durack  to make the ground for divorce a 2-year irretrievable breakdown of marriage would militate against the success of the whole of the Bill and the purposes and motivation of the Bill itself. The no-fault clause of irretrievable breakdown after 12 months separation ought to be the lynch pin of the legislation. If we alter that time to 2 years we are in a worse position than we were in with the 1959 legislation. I trust that the Senate in its wisdom will reject the amendment which seeks to defer consideration of this matter until next year and will reject the amendment which would change the whole framework of the Bill. I trust that it will adopt the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
I speak in the debate despite the fact that Opposition senators have said that they will support the legislation. I wish to answer some of the queries which have been raised and which show, to my mind, a complete misunderstanding and lack of clear appreciation of the intentions of the Government in respect of this magnificent contribution towards the funding of local government generally throughout Australia. I think that the contribution by  Senator Scott  was a much more thoughtful and interesting contribution to the debate than was the hysterical outburst by  Senator Carrick.  These outbursts have become characteristic of him. He never seems to want to give credit to the Government for anything it may do. If we introduce new pensions in our social services budget he says we ought to be doing more. If we give $56m to 800 out of 950 councils he says there is some motivation on the part of the Government or some sinister hidden reasoning behind the Government's new proposals. There is always something to be criticised. No credit is given for the innovation and the additional approach with which this Government has been associated in its endeavours to bring about an equalisation of municipal services throughout Australia. 
I found it somewhat interesting to hear  Senator Scott  refer in the last part of his speech to the need for the Grants Commission to recognise that local government should have grants given to it regardless of its requirements and that efficiency should be the keynote on which the Commission should operate. I suggest that he should have conveyed those opinions to the Leader of his Party in New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler, when he was Minister for Local Government. Together with the preceding Minister for Local Government he was responsible for embodying the principles of this BUI in the New South Wales Local Government Grants Commission when it was established. I paid tribute in this chamber a year or two ago to the New South Wales Liberal Government for introducing a Grants Commission in New South Wales. It was one of the first in Australia. Regard was had to the efficiency of the council. That is the principle on which the legislation operates in New South Wales. 
A member of the Country Party, while paying tribute to the efforts of the Australian Government as revealed in this legislation, saw fit to suggest that we were acting incorrectly in applying the same principles that the New South Wales Government applied. I can understand what  Senator Scott  has said because I myself raised this very question when we were discussing this matter in the Party room. I say to  Senator Scott  and to  Senator Carrick  that if we concern ourselves with efficiency in respect of the grants that are to be given to local government bodies, if we have an indifferent or an inefficient council and we take that too much into consideration, the only people who will suffer will be not the council but the ratepayers who live in that area. This negates the very principles upon which the Government is providing these local government grants. 
The Government is providing the local government grants in order to bring about an equalisation of municipal services throughout Australia. There is abundant evidence on this question. In fact, I urge honourable senators who have levelled so much criticism to read one of the latest reports of the urban research unit of the Austraiian National University. It shows that in the areas which require the greatest assistance-, the areas that are developing, the depressed areas, the areas in the outer suburbs of the great cities of our Commonwealth- the rates are the highest and the services are the lowest. In fact, the report shows that in the more salubrious areas where the rates are the lowest, the services, for a variety of reasons which I have not time to canvass this evening, are better than those provided in areas where the rates are the highest. The councils in those high rating areas are grappling with the neglect- and I say to  Senator Carrick  that there is no other word to describe it- of 23 years of government in which his Party held responsibility. That government refused to give any consideration to providing funds to local government to enable it to carry out its responsibilities. It forced the 900 councils throughout Australia to rely entirely and solely upon rate revenues in order to finance the services which they provided for the ratepayers within their boundaries. 
Only in recent years were some progressive steps taken by one or two State governments to give very small sums of money to local government bodies. Because more time is not available to me I will give but one example of the amount of money which a State government gave to a council with which I have been associated over the years. The State government gave that council $30,000. Out of the allocation of the $56m which is the subject of the legislation that we are considering, that same, council will receive more than $400,000, because the allocation is based on need, on the equalisation program and on the philosophy of the Australian Government to create a more equal society. I just cannot understand the negative thinking which has become so characteristic of  Senator Carrick  in recent times. He gives no credit to the Government, whatever it may do. Whilst we appreciate that the Opposition parties have no recourse other than to support the Bill, I wish that they would do it in a much more pleasant way, in a way which would indicate that they give credit where credit should be given. 
Can the PostmasterGeneral inform the Senate of the current position in relation to the Lane Cove Post Office which has been the subject of an industrial dispute? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer him to the Hansard report of the submission made by the Australian Country Party on the question of meat prices to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices at hearings held in June and July 1973. Is the Minister aware that at page 281 of the Committee transcript the Country Party drew attention to the serious shortage of red meats during the preceding years? Did this situation occur during the years of the Liberal-Country Party Government? Did not the Country Party say, at page 282 of the transcript, that Australian Government policy should be designed towards, firstly, the encouragement of beef production and, secondly, the improvement of industrial health standards? Can the Minister indicate what would have happened to beef producers if the Australian Government had adopted the advice of the Country Party and whether improved production would not have worsened the plight of rural producers and even caused bankruptcy of many producers? Has there been any improvement in health standards? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a message from the International Secretariat of Amnesty International advising of the finding the tortured body of Lumi Videla Moya dumped on the premises of the Italian Embassy in Santiago, Chile, a report which was confirmed by the Italian Foreign Office in Rome? Does the message also allege that the husband and 4-year old son ofthe dead woman were also tortured in her presence? In view of the serious allegation and the extension of torture to young children, will the Leader of the Government raise this inhuman and fiendish development with the Prime Minister and ask him to protest on behalf of the Australian Government to General Binochet against the torture and murder of political prisoners in Chile? In particular, will the Attorney-General ask the Prime Minister to seek the release of Sergio Alfredo Perez Molina and his 4-year-old son and offer them asylum in Australia? 
The Minister representing the Minister for Transport will be aware of the criticism which has long prevailed in New South Wales over the provision of public transport services in the Parramatta area. In the light of the long standing need for the introduction of a modern railway system servicing the Parramatta region, can the Minister advise the Senate of the present state of negotiations with the New South Wales State Government over the provision of such a railway system? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media in the absence of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen reports that unemployment has risen during 1974 in France by 40 per cent, in Italy and in the United States of America by 25 per cent and in Japan by more than one million persons? Is it not a fact that those countries are all governed by conservative governments similar in philosophy to the main Opposition parties in Australia? Has the Minister seen the fatuous comment by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  that if the Australian Government had accepted his advice Australia would have neither unemployment nor inflation? Is it not a fact that during 1971-72 when  Mr Snedden  was Federal Treasurer, unemployment, inflation and business uncertainty were rampant? Can the Minister indicate whether the Prime Minister is likely to recommend to the Australian Government any of  Mr Snedden  's inane advisings? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to make a statement concerning an inquiry by the Joint Committee on Prices into the effect of the abolition of licence fees in the 1974-75 Budget on hire charges for television sets. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Committee's terms of reference allow it to inquire into and, as appropriate, report upon complaints arising from prices charged by the private sector. Honourable senators will realise that these terms of reference may be discharged not only by tabling a report in the Parliament but also by means of a statement made in both Houses. The Committee prefers such statements to the tabling of reports if the statements are brief because this enables the Committee to bring the matter to the notice of the Parliament more speedily. 
The 1974-75 Budget abolished licence fees for television viewers. The Committee was made aware of the fact that some television rental firms did not intend reducing their hire charges notwithstanding the abolition of the licence fees. The Committee moved quickly and invited the public to inform the Committee of instances of television rental firms not passing on the benefits of the abolition of the fees. The Committee received a number of complaints on this matter and sought clarification of the pricing policy of the firms which were complained against. The firms contacted included large national rental firms such as Radio Rentals Pty Ltd. In addition, following the Committee's Press statement, Canberra Television Services, one of the largest of the national rental firms, announced that it intended reducing rental charges following the abolition of licence fees. The Committee was pleased to receive correspondence from members of the public advising that the benefits of the cancellation of the licence fees had been passed on to them as a result of the Committee's Press statement. I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the response of television rental firms to the inquiries made by the Committee. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is the table an appropriate one for incorporation? 
Yes, it is just a very brief schedule of 7 firms and quite factually sets out the circumstances of the Committee's inquiry. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="062232197412033_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. To summarise what is in the table, of the 7 firms contacted by the Committee following the abolition of the licence fees, four have reduced their charges; two have postponed increases; and the remaining firm hires television sets to hospital patients, such sets not being subject to licence fees. In conclusion, I would reiterate that the consumer should once again be made aware of the advantages of shopping around when his present contract expires so that he may choose a firm whose prices and services offer best value for money. 
The Senate and the Australian people have been subjected to another long tirade of misrepresentation about the objectives of the Government by  Senator Carrick.  He has again, in accepting the Government's legislation, developed a line of argument which has been common to him since the change of government took place in 1 972. At the end of 1 974 we can say that the Australian Government has scored something like 430 good runs for the Australian people. The Opposition has been well and truly trounced as this Bill has been passed through the House of Representatives and in many cases adopted by this Senate in the spirit that characterised  Senator Carrick  in the debate this afternoon. The Opposition Parties, of course, tried to come back in May 1974 but they misjudged and mistimed their attack and were well and truly run out as indeed they will be when the Australian people have a real opportunity and an objective opportunity to examine the legislative program of this Government. 

 Senator Carrick talked about the submissions he has received from State governments and local government. He did not, of course, tell the Senate that prior to 1972 submissions on this subject received no consideration at all from Liberal-Country Party governments. The plain facts are that Liberal-Country Party governments refused for 22  lA  years to concern themselves with matters associated with urban and regional development. Let me quote what the late Prime Minister Harold Holt said in October 1966. He said: 
In an economy where home building is overwhelmingly the function of private enterprise, the Commonwealth, although it may indirectly influence the level of home building, is not in a position to make overall plans to ensure that they will be carried out. It still remains our firm view that the task of forecasting housing demands and performance over a period of years is not one for the Government to undertake. 
And of course it was Prime Minister McMahon who said, speaking at a local government function in a town in Victoria in March 1972, that there were some people in the Parliament who had an obsession about urban affairs. We have been again treated to another Liberal lament from Liberals who have missed the bus in respect of the urban scene and who have failed to perceive the great changes that have taken place in the post-war years in Australia. To blame this Government, as I have heard Opposition speakers do time and time again, for the high cost of land and accommodation is to ignore the fact that the Australian Government when in the hands of the Opposition refused consistently to accept any responsibility for this area. It left it entirely to the State governments to provide serviced land for the developing nation. It was the Australian Labor Party that first recognised the need to become involved in the urban scene. I want to quote from our 1969 conference. We said that we would: 
Make grants to the States to construct houses at the lowest possible interest rate for sale or rental, with priority to those most in need, in conditions which conform to specified standards of services, amenities and accessibility. 
Make conditional grants to the States for the reclamation and rehabilitation of depressed areas in accordance with modern town planning. 
Make additional special grants to enable States to engage in forward acquisition of land for State housing projects, for development and /or sale. 
Make grants to the States for the provision of such community amenities in housing estates constructed with Commonwealth grants as the Commonwealth itself provides in housing estates in the Territories. 
In this very Bill we say that the Australian Government believes that this situation of housing shortage has come about because of inadequate public capital investment in the processes of land acquisition and development has made those processes inefficient over the years. In this very Bill, the Government has shown its ability to negotiate with the States. In the acquisition program that is set out New South Wales is to acquire 500 hectares of land, Victoria is to spend $3. 5m to acquire open space on the Mornington Peninsula and is to purchase another 850 hectares of land for urban residential development in Melbourne. 
South Australia is to acquire 2,500 hectares. Negotiations are still proceeding in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. Of course this will take a time to achieve. After all, the Australian Government has been obstructed for the years that it has been in office by the Opposition and by the intransigent position of State governments where Liberal and Country Parties are in the majority. This Bill sets out to provide $258m for land acquisitions and $110m for sewerage, which  Senator Carrick  completely ignores in his contribution. This Government inherited, as a result of the neglect of honourable senators opposite, the situation that one and a half million people in the capital cities of Australia are living in non-sewered areas. In this Bill the Government is providing, for the second time in the 2 years it has been in office, $ 1 10m to make up the backlog and to overcome the ludicrous position whereby something in excess of every dollar that is collected by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and by the Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board goes out in capital and interest repayments on loans for services rendered in years past, nullifying the efforts of the construction authorities to keep abreast of development. 
Honourable senators opposite say nothing about the $5. 75m a year set aside for the National Estate. That area was completely forgotten and not recognised by the previous Government. Instead of the Government's getting some credit for this we are subjected time and time again to a tirade of abuse and misrepresentation of the Government's objectives which were clearly set out by the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  when he was Leader of the Opposition. He pointed out that the Australian Labor Government would accept its social, political and economic responsibilities in respect of town planning and solving the problems of urban blight and regional development. What have we done? Is it conceded by the Opposition that we have reached agreement with the New South Wales Government in respect of the Bathurst-Orange growth centre and the AlburyWodonga growth centre? Is it conceded by the Opposition that we are now discussing with the New South Wales Government the proposition of Gosford- Wyong being a growth centre? Is it said by the Opposition speakers that there is no agreement with the Victorian Liberal Government for the development of Geelong as a growth centre? One could go on and on defending the objectives of the Government against this sort of onslaught and tirade of abuse to which we have been subjected, particularly by  Senator Carrick. 
Government members are at a disadvantage because we recognise that if we match  speaker  with  speaker,  argument with argument and logic with logic we will never complete our program. Therefore it is not possible to answer all of the questions that have been raised by  Senator Carrick.  All I can say is that the Bill appropriates moneys as a result of discussions and agreements reached with the State governments. Surely it is logical for the Commonwealth to set aside the amounts of money it is now making available to the States. In 1973 we made in direct payments to the States for the purposes of education, health, urban affairs, culture, recreation and housing, $2,449m. In this year's Budget- and this is the subject of this Bm- $3,790m is to be made available. This is an increase of 55 per cent on the previous year. In the year about which  Senator Carrick  speaks the Bill concerning the National Urban and Regional Development Authority was regarded as an interim piece of legislation and was introduced some 6 weeks before the Parliament was dissolved for the purpose of fighting the 1972 general election. Members of the Opposition missed the bus; they have not as yet caught up with the contemporary needs and with the needs of the community. They spend so much of the time in the Senate endeavouring to divert the attention of the Senate and of the Australian people from the positive programs of the Government, programs which clearly will take years before the full effects will be understood by the Australian people, but programs which will radically alter the growth patterns in our cities as we set out consciously to divert the population from the urban areas into the regional centres on which agreement has already been reached with the State governments. 
Of course we know that the Government, from time to time, has indicated its preparedness to consider Townsville as a growth centre and its preparedness to accept the South Australian Government's proposition about Monarto. We know of the sour grapes that have come from the Liberals in South Australia because they do not agree with the proposition that Monarto should be a growth centre. Because the Australian Government accepts this, it is regarded by  Senator Carrick  and his friends as being not part of co-operative federalism. One has to agree completely with the philosophy, the concept and the inadequacies of the last 20-odd years if one is to accept that this Government is not carrying out its responsibilities. The 400-odd Bills that have been through this Parliament have all been designed to create a more equal society and to ensure that people, whether they live in Kuringgai and enjoy much better urban standards than do the people in Mount Druitt and some other parts ofthe new suburbs of Sydney, will have adequate community facilities. This is just another one of the milestones that the Government has placed before the Parliament for its consideration. 
I wish that some day we will have from the Opposition some acknowledgment of the motivation of the Government as it seeks to catch up on the years of neglect by the previous administration. No one can say that the present urban scene was something that just descended as at I December 1 972. It was something that was apparent even in 1 949. The debates in the Parliament at that time indicate the warnings of Labor speakers that unless Commonwealth responsibility for finance, planning and other aspects was accepted in this area we would finally reach a point where we would suffer in our environment and in our quality of life. Yet on every Bill that the Government presents to this Parliament for the purpose of catching up on those years when this matter was not considered to be part of Commonwealth responsibility we have been subjected to the sort of debating skills for which  Senator Carrick  is now notorious in this chamber. I urge the adoption of the Bill because I believe it is a very important step forward in improving the life style ofthe Australian people. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that following a lengthy submission to the Prices Justification Tribunal by newspaper publishers, newspaper prices were increased by  2lA  per cent to 9c? Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that subsequent to this decision, the proprietors of the Sydney 'Sun' and the Daily Mirror', apparently acting in collusion, have begun an economy drive and have reduced the number of editions previously printed? Is the Attorney-General aware that as a result of this economy drive, reputed to save $5,000 a week, country people now receive the cable edition which is largely a re-hash of the morning papers? Are not country readers now seriously disadvantaged by the arbitrary moves of the Press proprietors? Will the Attorney-General investigate all the circumstances leading to the rearrangement of editions to see whether it is a breach of the findings of the Prices Justification Tribunal? 
-I bring up a report from the Joint Committee on Prices relating to the practice of retailers repricing existing stock, together with minutes of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Senator Gietzelt)-  by leaveagreed to: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Motion (by  Senator Gietzelt)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-I bring up a report from the Joint Committee on Prices relating to the import prices inquiry on price effects of currency changes, report No. 3, together with minutes of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Senator Gietzelt)-  by leaveagreed to: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Motion  (by  Senator Gietzelt)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs deals with an international matter. I will leave the dirty questions to a handful of Opposition senators. Has the Minister seen reports of talks between the black African leaders from Rhodesia and representatives of the Smith regime about a possible settlement of the Rhodesian problem? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether any progress has been made in the efforts to establish majority rule in that region? 
-I seek leave to move a motion for a reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Gaovernment Operations the following matter: The nature and extent of Australian Government assistance to industry with particular reference to: 
The criteria upon which such aid should be given; 
Whether such assistance has led to greater economicgrowth and efficiency; 
What benefits have accrued to the community and taxpayers generally; and 
Whether there should be alternative ways of achieving assistance objectives other than the present system 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I remind him of the Senate 's inquiry into the Estate Duty Act and my report to the Senate some 14 months ago. Is the Minister aware that  Sir Frank  Packer, who died on 1 May 1974, was the head of a vast propaganda empire which, from the 1930's, grew into a web of 60 corporate identities? Is the Government aware that despite the accumulated wealth of the Packer empire, in one portion of which  Sir Frank  was the principal shareholder and which was sold in June 1 972 for $15m- I refer to the sale of the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' and the 'Sunday Telegraph '-Sir Frank's net estate for probate assessment totalled only $1,340,256? Will the Government indicate the ways by which  Sir Frank  Packer was able to divest himself of most of his fortune during his lifetime for the purpose of the Estate Duty Act whilst retaining absolute control of his vast empire? 
Will the Minister assure the House that the Government will take steps to stop such wholesale manipulation of assets by the rich to avoid taxation? Does the Minister agree that the use of tax avoidance schemes undermines the equity of the taxation system and places extra tax burdens on the low and middle income earners? If the Government cannot close the loopholes will it issue instructions to the increasing number of legal aid centres that all citizens be given the opportunity to arrange their affairs so as to minimise their estate duty liabilities? 
When this Darwin Reconstruction Bill was being debated in the House of Representatives it was interesting to note that the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the principal Opposition party,  Mr Snedden,  said that the Opposition approached the reconstruction of Darwin on a totally non-political basis. But, of course, here we have been subjected to the usual farrago of nonsense from some of the Opposition speakers. However I must admit that  Senator Durack,  who led for the Opposition, played this matter in substantially a low key. It is pretty clear that the Opposition is going to use every device, every tactic and every portion of the media with a view to inflaming public opinion in Darwin and trying to make the people believe that the Australian Government, in fact the Parliament, is acting against the best interests of the people of Darwin. 

 Senator Carrick had a great deal to say about the fact that the people of Darwin did not see this Bill until it had been presented to the Parliament. That seems to me to be a specious and irresponsible argument because that was the procedure followed by governments formed by Opposition parties in the past and it will be followed by this Government for the present and in the future. Bills to be debated in the Parliament will be presented to the Parliament. Due notice will be given to the persons affected by the legislationin this instance, the residents of Darwin. 

 Senator Carrick 's criticism was strange, coming from a supporter of a government which conscripted and sent young men to Vietnam without allowing them any opportunity to determine their involvement in a war in which they wanted no part. 
It seems to me that for the first fortnight after the tragedy that struck Darwin there was no criticism- in fact, there was praise from the media and from all sections of the Australian community- of the alacrity with which the Government acted, of the compassion which the Government had and of the effective and competent way in which the Ministers carried out their responsibilities. However, since that time it is clear that a group in Darwin and a group in the fanatical wing of die Opposition parties decided to try to destroy the goodwill that was built into the work of the Australian Government in those first few days, and set about consciously to undermine public confidence in the Government and to deprecate the words of the Leader of the Opposition when he spoke on this matter in the early days of the tragedy that was Darwin. It is historically the role of the Opposition to oppose but it is not historically the Opposition's role to undermine and try to belittle the efforts of the Government to reconstruct Darwin.  Mr President,  as you well know, at the Federal Conference of our Party only a fortnight ago I was privileged to move a motion to establish the basic principles in respect of the recognition of Darwin as an important city in the Commonwealth and of the right of the people of Darwin to participate in the reconstruction and the rebuilding of that city. 
It makes my stomach turn to hear the sort of nonsense that was peddled by Opposition speakers this evening about public participation and the need to remove the influence of this Parliament in the reconstruction of Darwin. What did the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  in a book which has been published and distributed to every citizen who was a resident of Darwin, say in respect of this question which has been so widely canvassed here and in the other place? He said: 
An aspect of particular concern to me is the need for the participation of the public- the present Darwin community, the Darwin evacuees and organisations and individuals interested in Darwin- at all stages of the planning work and in the process of redevelopment. 
It seems that in the Darwin incident we will see politicking of the worst kind, politicking which will show to the people of Darwin that the Opposition is not interested in the proper reconstruction of that city. The Opposition will not take advantage of the opportunity presented to the Australian Parliament and to the citizens of Darwin to plan properly their city, but it will play and prey upon the misery of the people of that city. Less than one-third of the people who were living in Darwin on Christmas Eve 1974 are living there now. The overwhelming evidence is that the ex-residents want to return. Everything that has been said by Opposition speakers in the other place and here and, to some extent, by those who claim to represent the real interests of the Darwin people is designed to delay the return to Darwin of all evacuees. Yet the overwhelming evidence is that they want to return tomorrow. How can they return to a city which is stricken by the lack of public facilities and which suffered so disastrously only a few weeks ago? 
Of course the residents of Darwin want a say. If every resident is to have an opportunity to say what should happen to the city and if every legal pretext is to be used in respect of land ownership, control and redevelopment of that cityeverybody admits that the opportunity ought to be taken in respect of this matter- the people will not be back in 5 years; they will not be back in 50 years. The Opposition must be prepared to take the responsibility for the delaying processes to which it seems to have so much allegiance. Of course we want the citizens of Darwin to be involved in the reconstruction of their city. Of course we want to give them complete and absolute say. It is about time that  Senator Carrick,  as the Opposition spokesman on urban affairs, got the message. What is involved in planning is a question of whether one concerns oneself with public interest, community or private interest. That is the dilemma which faces planners everywhere. It will face planners in our country, and it will face the planners in Darwin. 
What do the proposed amendments seek to do? I have counted it up in round figures while I have been listening to the debate. Approximately 16 of the Opposition's proposed amendments seek to take the power from the Minister and invest it in the authority. That is the tactic which the Opposition parties have sought to devise. It seeks to establish a bureaucratic and autonomous body which is subject to nobody; not subject to the will of the Parliament; not subject to the will of public opinion; not subject to the views of the residents of Darwin whether they are at the moment at some centre in Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne or in Darwin. The Opposition wants a completely autonomous body making the decisions which affect that city. I find it rather strange that the Liberal Party should have so much concern about the rights of individuals and the rights of elected representatives. Australia has a very short history in respect of planning. The first planning organisation was established in New South Wales in 1945. It was established on a somewhat bureaucratic basis. As experience in New South Wales developed, the States followed the same pattern to some extent. In the next 20 years or so there was an evolution in thinking in respect of planning. That evolution was that the States would give the authority for planning to the bureaucracy. That has been the general rule. 
In recent years the experience in most of the States has been to move away from the bureaucracy making the decisions in respect of redevelopment and planning and to vest such power in a Minister. This applies to the conservative States such as New South Wales. I do not think we can blame  Mr Lewis  for this, although we may be able to blame him for other things. 1 defy any member of this chamber, any member of the other House, any person associated with Darwin and with the clamour which is being whipped up there by subversive elements to show where that philosophy has any substance in the planning in this country. In my home State of New South Wales the Minister for Public Works has in the last 2 years assumed ministerial control of the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board which spends $ 1,000m or more of taxpayers money each year to supply water facilities. The elected representatives no longer have any say. The Liberal Government in New South Wales, with which  Senator Carrick  had close association for many years, no longer has any say in the disbursement of funds or in the development of works programs in respect of that public authority. It is exclusively in the province of the Minister for Public Works. 
The same position applies to the Board of Fire Commissioners in New South Wales. The elected representatives who hitherto were supplied from the local government representatives have been abolished and in their place a bureaucracy has been appointed subject to the Minister. In the last few months the State Planning Authority, which was the successor to the Cumberland County Council, has been abolished and we have a Planning and Environment Commission under the direct control of the Minister. The same can be said of the other States. I have taken the time to check out the position in South Australia and I find that, in the period of time during which  Senator Steele  Hall was Premier and subsequent to that, the experience was the same. The same can be said of Queensland, Victoria and all the other States. The general experience is to get control of planning, redevelopment and building closer and closer to the hand and the whim of the Minister. 
Why is this happening? It is happening because we found that the bureaucracies were more inflexible and more bureaucratic and were not bending to the changing attitudes of the community in respect of redevelopment. The Minister, because he was subject to the control of the Parliament and to questions in the Parliament and because he had some regard, as all governments have, to public opinion, was thought to be more responsive to public opinion and changing public opinion than was the position hitherto. This is the evolution of thinking in respect of the whole area of planning. Yet one would imagine when one hears members of the Opposition that they want to go off at a different tangent or in a diametrically opposite direction to what has been the experience in all States. One is entitled to ask the question: Why is it that honourable senators opposite, certain people associated with so-called protest movements in Darwin and certain people in the other place have set out to try to create an entirely different apparatus, an entirely different structure and an entirely different arrangement for what must be one of the great challenges for this Government and this Parliament? 
I see nothing wrong with giving to the Minister the powers which have been provided in State parliaments and which up till now have been provided in the national Parliament by the previous Government and the present Government. In point of fact, I can point to many instances in New South Wales where the Minister for Local Government, or the Minister for Planning as he is now called, has been able to override both the local opinion and established planning principles because in the opinion of the government of the day they were the decisions that were necessary in the public interest. 
What are the main issues? As the Opposition sees them, the main issues- it will move amendments accordingly- are to remove, diminish or minimise the influence of the Minister. In other words, it is saying that the current Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the current Minister for the Northern Terrritory  (Dr Patterson)  do not have any support from the people in the reconstruction of Darwin. It wants the Minister who will be responsible for administering this legislation to surrender his rights- that is what is involved in the amendments- and to vest those rights entirely in an autonomous body. 
Yet in the same breath  Senator Carrick  had the audacity to suggest that only two of the 7 members who will constitute the Commission will represent the point of view of the Darwin residents. How is he able to make such an assertion? In what way is he able to say that only two such persons will represent the views of the Darwin residents? Is he suggesting that the eminent  Sir Leslie  Thiess to whom some speakers have referred has no regard for the residents of Darwin? Is it suggested that the  Deputy Chairman  will not be sympathetic to the views of the Darwin residents? The Opposition is suggesting by moving an amendment that the General Manager should have no voting power. 
This is strange coming from a Liberal Party which recently sponsored in New South Wales a change in the whole local government system which would vest more power in the general manager and less power in the elected representatives by virtue of the general manager system. I suggest that those who are concerned about what will happen in Darwin might look at the Barnett Commission's inquiry and its recommendations in respect of the effective way local government should operate in New South Wales. That Commission which was appointed by the Askin Government was designed to remove certain powers of the elected representatives and to vest them in the general manager. Now the Darwinians and those who support them in this place and in the other House are suggesting that that course of action is wrong when it comes to Darwin. I wish the Liberals would really sort out what their philosophy is- or is it a matter of the Country Party tail wagging the Liberal Party dog? 
I do not think they can work out where they are. They still believe they are back in about 1947 and not in 1975. Everything that has been said by them in the debate and all of the propaganda that has been pouring out of Darwin seem to indicate a parochial and inadequate understanding of the problems that exist in Darwin. 
The facts show that in the life of my parents and many older people in this community- those who were born after 1897- there have been 4 tragedies in Darwin. I understand that in 1897 or 1898 there was a cyclone of some intensity. There was another one in 1937. Darwin was bombed during World War II- from memory, in 1942- and of course there was the destruction caused by Cyclone Tracy. I think that in those circumstances we are able to draw the conclusion that about every 30 or 40 years through natural causes Darwin will be faced with problems of the sort caused by the calamity that hit on Christmas Day last. In those circumstances, what action has been taken by the elected representatives of Darwin those members of the Corporation of the City of Darwin and the elected representatives of the former Northern Territory Legislative Council? I leave out the members of the new Legislative Assembly because it would not be fair to challenge their integrity or their understanding of their public responsibilities. 
But clearly the national Government and the Australian people are entitled to ask: 'What was wrong with the building code? What was wrong with the health code? What was wrong with the subdivisional plans? What was wrong with the construction of buildings and public facilities in Darwin? Did we not learn, expect or come to understand that what happened in 1897 and 1937 would happen again? What did the elected representatives do? What were the responsibilities of the people, who now claim to speak on behalf of the people of Darwin, in this matter of building and construction of public facilities so as to avoid the death, the tragedies and the miseries that took place as a result of cyclone Tracy? Are those self-same people now to be given exactly the same open door to repeat the mistakes of yesteryear? Is the Australian Government expected to pick up the tab to the tune of $50m or $60m without saying that we learned from the mistakes of the past in order to avoid the difficulties that might occur in the future?' 
As sure as we can be, the facts are that Darwin will experience another cyclone some time in the life of some of the younger members of our community. I will not say that there were guilty men in Darwin, because I think that most people who serve the public interest and most people who go into public life do so with the best of intentions. Surely at this time we are entitled to ask: 'Why did they not have a building code capable of withstanding the worst ravages of cyclone Tracy?' We are indebted to  Senator Keeffe  who told us of some of the experiences of Townsville some 3 years ago. We would be irresponsible if we did not say that some public authority should evaluate what has happened in the past so that we may learn from those experiences. Of course there are members of the present Legislative Assembly who have been holding public office for considerable periods of time. Did they seek to improve the code? Did they seek to influence the Northern Territory Building Board? Who were the officials? Did they make any attempt to upgrade the standard of development? Was there jerry building? Were the residents badly advised? These questions ought to be publicly asked and answered. 
I think it would be a matter of great regret and irresponsibility if the Australian Government were not to say: 'Well, we are in a position. We have the staff. We have the experience. We have examined what we are doing in relation to Albury-Wodonga. We have examined the experience of the National Capital Development Commission here in Canberra. We have the expertise. We have the men and women who can properly advise us in these matters. ' Those who take the simplistic view suggest that all we have to do is to set up a structure for the minority of the people in Darwin and then we have carried out our responsibility. Honourable senators opposite make no suggestion as to how we might involve the great majority of the Darwin residents who are not there any more. Are those in Darwin speaking on their behalf? Are they speaking on behalf of those who want to go back? Are they speaking on behalf of the Australian communities which donated so generously? Are they speaking on behalf of the Australian Government which surely must have some responsibility when we talk of the sort of public investment which it has been suggested is required in these circumstances? 
The second reading speech has made it quite clear that the Australian Government is committed to public participation. But public participation does not mean that the elected representatives and governments abdicate their responsibility. Someone has to make the decisions. No one can tell me that meetings here and there and uninformed people here and there are in a position correctly to estimate and understand the need for a national approach on these matters. A great song and dance has been made by the Opposition parties about the size of Darwin being reduced from 60 to 40 kilometres. Why are they making this matter such an issue? In whose interests are they speaking? Maybe some of those who are active in the protest movement in Darwin are correct. I do not know whether experience shows this, but maybe it can be shown that certain areas of Darwin should not be reconstructed. Maybe we ought not to have Darwin the size that is planned. 
The Government has a responsibility and it has decided that Darwin should be 60 kilometres. Surely this is not a matter on which we will seriously divide one another's views, attitudes and decisions when, at the same time, in relation to the redevelopment of AlburyWodonga the Australian Government has been able to reach agreement that we should have a parameter in relation to the size of that proposed city of about 55 kilometres. This has been agreed to by the Conservative governments of New South Wales and Victoria in alliance with the Australian Government. So why do we have different yardsticks? I cannot understand why it is that people can produce arguments, some of which are specious and some of which are irresponsible. Clearly when some people suggest that there is something ulterior, something wrong in the size which we believe Darwin should be, they do not understand the motivation of this Bill. To what extent do those who involve themselves in the protests, who whip up the hysteria, understand the Australian Government's approach to the defence potential of Darwin? Do they understand it? Do they know? Are they in a position to make a judgment? I doubt whether members of the National Parliament are in that position because of the way in which the bureaucracy has worked for many years in Canberra. Yet these are certainly important factors. 
What is the future tourist potential of this area? Are these matters in which the people of Darwin are able to make objective analysis and judgment? I have very grave doubts about whether there is any sincerity in those who seek to make such a mountain out of a molehill in relation to the size of Darwin. I think it was  Senator Durack  who made the point that it is the intention of the constructing authority once this Bill is passed to close up some areas and that new districts might be opened. I ask  Senator Durack:  Are we in a position to make that sort of judgment? If people are to be resettled in a better environment in Darwin and if they are to suffer no monetary loss, who is to say that that is not right? What right have the Opposition Parties to attempt to inflame public opinion? I have sounded out my connections in Darwin and what I have been told does not square with some of the calamity howling which I have heard in this place in the last 24 hours or so. 

 Senator Durack makes the point that this legislation seeks to override- I have written these words down- any law to control health, building and town planning. Does the honourable senator seriously suggest that that is not desirable in certain circumstances? If he does, I suggest that he read the Town and Country Planning Act of Western Australia or the town planning legislation of New South Wales and of the other States. That is precisely the power which the States gave themselves under which to operate in certain conditions. Why does the situation alter when we come to Darwin which is clearly a city which is not able to stand on its own feet, which needs direction, compassion and assistance and a great deal of technical know-how? I believe that the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for the Northern Territory, who has spent a great deal of time in Darwin since the tragedy, and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development have shown that they want to use the powers of persuasion and discussion in order to resolve these difficulties. Already  Senator Carrick  and, I think,  Senator Durack  too, have spoken of the Citizens Advisory Committee. But  Senator Carrick  suggested that the Government would bypass the citizens of Darwin. It is clear that he is talking with his tongue in his cheek. It is clear that he has no understanding of the Bill or he is out to try to create a complete misapprehension. 
Clause 7 of the Bill is designed precisely so that the Darwin Citizens' Council, the Citizens' Advisory Committee and the advice of the people in Darwin will not be bypassed. They will be involved. Their point of view will be listened to. That is in the Bill. That is not an amendment which is to be moved by the Opposition. That is a clause of the Bill which seeks to involve the people of Darwin at every stage. It is in all the public documents. It seeks, as the Ministers have said in their second reading speeches, to involve citizens in the whole process of the redevelopment of Darwin. If that is the case, then what is the reason why honourable senators opposite are trying to create an impression that this Government is not consulting the people of Darwin about the reconstruction of their city? I appreciate and the Government appreciates that the people of Darwin love their city, that they want to get back to it as quickly as they can, and that they do not want parliamentary interference to the point that will prevent their early return to their city. In those circumstances, I think the Opposition is doing the citizens of Darwin a great disservice in its endeavours to change this Bill and in its endeavours to take away from the Parliament the right of the Minister and the right of the Governor-General to make ordinances in respect to Darwin, its reconstruction, its planning, its building code and so on. We know we have rights in this place to disallow ordinances. We know that the Parliament has the right at any time to revise its Bills and to learn from what has happened. 
I am surprised at the fourth proposed amendment of the Opposition, which seeks to delete clause 9 and to insert another clause. I do not know whether  Senator Carrick  understands what he is seeking to move. He will seek to insert a provision which is contained in the National Capital Development Commission Act that was enacted in 1957-18 years ago. In the proposed amendment the Opposition is using the same words, the same phrases and the same experiences as though there was nothing to learn from the experience in Canberra. That is not realistic It is not reality to attempt to put into this Bill a clause which in the minds of even the National Capital Development Commission and the planners generally in this country needs revision and updating. That opinion is based on their experience of this city where the Government, of course, is in a unique position. 
One could go on seeking to show the hollowness of each of the amendments which have been moved by the Opposition. I think the Opposition has been mesmerised and has been put into a hysterical position in its endeavours to belittle the efforts of the Government by seeking to remove from this Parliament and from the Minister his important power to exercise a discretionary role. That belittles the role of the Parliament. It certainly takes away from the Government its day to day exercising of its authority and its responsibilities. I would hope that based on the evolutionary experience of planning in Australia members of the Opposition will not turn the clock back; that they will learn from the experiences of people even within their own Party and within their own State governments; that they will even at this late hour discuss the matter with  Mr Fuller,  the Minister for Planning and Environment in New South Wales, and with  Mr Hamer  in Victoria and those other enlightened Ministers who, based on their experiences, have seen the need to change the emphasis from the bureaucracy back to the Parliament; that the Senate will not be stampeded, on the basis of a false, incorrect and inadequate understanding of what is involved in this important Darwin Reconstruction Bill, into amending the Bill, emasculating it and rendering it sterile when the important job is to pass the Bill to enable the Australian Government properly to carry out its responsibilities to the people in Darwin. The Government wants to get the message through to the people in Darwin that we are not on a collision or confrontation course but that the Australian Government stands committed to the philosophy of citizen participation. 
I can assure honourable senators that that is my stand. I can assure this Senate that that is the stand of the Ministers concerned. If honourable senators opposite have any doubts about it then I suggest they should look at the manner in which the Ministers have operated and at the way in which I have operated in local governmentinvolving people at all stages in their immediate affairs and not relying upon bureaucratic processes to create the better environment that we all want to see. It would be a great tragedy for the Australian nation and for the compassion that was expressed in the weeks after cyclone Tracy, it would be a tragedy for the people of Darwin, and it would be a tragedy for the elected representatives of Darwin in the Legislative Assembly and in the Darwin City Council if we did not seek to improve the building code and to learn from what has been an obvious example of what could happen to Darwin in the future. 
In those circumstances the Government feels obliged substantially to oppose the Opposition's proposed amendments. I do not think we will lose very much sleep if at the Committee stage some of the proposed amendments are improved, especially in respect to appeals against planning decisions. I do not think anyone who has been involved in public life would give to any authority the right not to listen to those people who have a legitimate grievance and a legitimate claim against a planning decision. But surely the Bill in its general philosophy and in the desires it expresses ought to be supported. I commend it to the Senate. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports criticising attempts by the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  to establish a new conservative party in Tasmania? Is the Minister able to say whether this criticism by the Tasmanian Liberal Party Leader,  Mr Bingham,  is based solely on party political considerations or whether the fears expressed by  Mr Bingham  are based upon the possible loss of beef export markets by Tasmanian farmers arising from  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  threat to limit mineral licences unless countries such as Japan agree to beef imports specifically from Queensland? Will the Minister comment on the unilateralism of the National Party Leader in Queensland, indicate whether his attitude on beef export products will jeopardise the livelihood of farmers from all States and whether his Tasmanian excursion will seriously jeopardise the survival of the existing Opposition parties in Tasmania? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to correspondence from the former New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Morris,  to the New South Wales Branch of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union in relation to the travelling post office service of the Australian Post Office. Can the Minister either confirm or refute the implication apparent in the correspondence that agreement has been reached between the Post Office and the New South Wales Government on a timetable for the cessation of this most valuable Post Office service? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members  or  the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens  or  Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the National Compensation Bill 1974 and the proposals Tor a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees discriminate in the payment of reversionary benefits against the members of families which: 
are homosexual families; 
do not fit the nuclear family pattern. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the National Compensation Bill 1974 and the new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees be amended to provide for the payment of reversionary benefits to dependent members of all families, however constituted. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware that consumers are experiencing difficulties in purchasing a wide variety of goods, that large retail stores have allowed stocks to be depleted, and that consequently consumer durables, timber, nails, items of drapery and other locally manufactured goods are in short supply? In view of the unemployment position, can the Minister explain why manufacturers and/or retailers are not combining their efforts to provide consumers with a choice of goods? Will the Minister have his officers carry out a survey in the market place to verify these complaints and examine whether manufacturers and retailers are involved in some plan, action or conspiracy to reduce production and distribution in an effort to exacerbate current economic disabilities and embarrass the Australian Government? 
I preface my question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by recalling to the Minister that one of the reasons advanced by the Government for extending recognition to the military regime in Chile was to enable the Australian Government, through our embassy in Santiago, to have some effect on the treatment of political prisoners, refugees and so on within Chile. I ask the Minister whether this policy has borne fruit and if in fact Australia has been able to have any effect in these matters? 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware of the new publishing subsidy scheme introduced in 1973 by the Australian Council for the Arts through the Literature Board? Is the Minister able to say whether this scheme is assisting Australianowned publishing firms which have limited financial resources? Does the scheme operate in such a way as to increase the employment possibilities of Australians in this industry? Is the Government confident that this new scheme will promote the growth of the Australian publishing industry which is currently disadvantaged by many overseas publishing houses? 
It does not refer to that Bill. 
The Government has been endeavouring for some time to have the Parliament consider and pass legislation to establish the Australian Film Commission. In a sense, I suppose we can be grateful for the fact that at long last the Senate has put aside its delaying attitude and has conceded that the Australian Film Commission Bill has some merit and should be passed and become law. The Government has been concerned for many years- that is, the Australian Labor Party Government- to see a viable and dynamic film industry established in this country. lt is a matter of some pride, I think, that Australia was the first country in the world to produce, many years ago, the first feature length film. Australia was involved in a lot of pioneering and innovative work but, as our market became saturated by films from the United States, which were able to find ready and profitable outlets in Australia, at cheap rates, the local industry was not able to flourish and declined and passed from the scene. I think the Government is to be commended for taking the necessary steps in its own right to bring about some encouragement in this area and to put us back into the vanguard of film production. It is true that the Americans have stolen the march on Australian film producers because of the expertise that the Americans have developed over many years. It is true that they have established marketing opportunities and production opportunities well in advance of anything that even this Bill may provide. Nevertheless, a start is a start, and that is what we are concerned with here. 
I suppose we can be thankful for small mercies in that the Opposition Parties in this place have at last agreed to give their consent to this Bill. I do not think this is hard to understand, because I am sure that the people associated with the film industry in Australia- and I am referring to both employers and employees- have, since the Senate took a different viewpoint last year, been able to prevail upon and appeal to the better sense of the Opposition Parties to the extent that now the Senate is going to pass this important piece of legislation. There is no doubt that films play a very important part in communication and in education. I must take issue with the preceding  speaker,  who usually presents a fairly reasonable case, when she talks about the excellent programs from overseas. That statement is certainly not borne out by my experience, and it is certainly not borne out, I am sure, by the experience of a great number of the Australian community, who would not agree that the films which come from overseas can be put into the category of excellent. In fact I think television via imported films has deteriorated quite considerably and quite alarmingly in recent years. In this area the government of the day, whoever it may be, does not have the opportunity to influence the type of production. Arrangements are entered into between the television stations and the film producers and, of course, what is available is what we get. The standard of production overseas in my view has never been particularly high except, I suppose, in the strictly limited sense of entertainment. Certainly it has never been high in the sense of raising people's expectations and their understanding or in educating them. 
I, like my Party and the Government, feel that there is an extra dimension to be considered here and that is to produce a better community and a better person. That does not mean to say, of course, that all our programs have to be of a documentary nature. We have to try to adjust our thinking. It is important that the different viewpoints within our community are expressed, viewpoints which at the moment have limited access to the other forms of the media. For example, people might write letters to newspapers, speak on talk-back programs and maybe, if they have a case to present as would, for example, the people associated with the environment movement in New South Wales and those associated with green bans, be interviewed on 'This Day Tonight' or the current affairs programs of commercial stations. The same sort of concept should be adopted by the film industry. In other words, we do not want this Commission to concern itself just with the type of excellent film produced on Cyclone Tracy which, one might say, was an informative film of what happened in Darwin and was able to give some indication of community response and the response of government, whether it be in the Northern Territory or in Canberra. Surely our thinking can be extended beyond that. 
I see film making as not just one of the art forms, as not just a source of information but also as a source of dialogue, and I hope that we will have provided as a result of the passage of this Bill a Commission that will make available to the minority viewpoints within our community the same sort of access to films as they have in one way or another as a result of their own activities and their promotion of their interests to the wider areas of the media. This ought to be the yardstick by which the Film Commission operates. It ought to go out of its way to create controversial issues, to encourage divergent views, to act as the conveyor belt for the idea in the community today and to see itself making a full length feature film rather than concerning itself only with documentaries. 
Profitability, which hitherto has been a factor in the making of documentaries, now will be of less significance and I would hope that content and objective and not profitability would be paramount in the Commission's planning. Quite clearly it is in this area that there is a need for a lot more innovation, new considerations, a lot more new thought and a lot more involvement than we have seen in our general media presentations in the past. The Government is very grateful that the Opposition, following a review of its earlier rejection of the legislation, has been able to bring itself to see that this is a step forward not only towards promoting the film industry in Australia but also towards expanding its franchise to a greater number of people. I hope that ultimately as the result of the passage of this Bill the Australian film industry will again become important enough to play its part in improving the content of films for general screening as well as of those produced for television. 
The time has long since arrived for us to expect that a country which occupies the technological position which we occupy in the world today, and a country with our resources, would be able to go much further than even our forefathers envisaged when they began the industry many years ago, by seeing that films become an important medium of communication. In conclusion, I stress the importance of seeing the film industry not just as a form of communication in the documentary sense but also as a form of dialogue, controversy and public interest. If those objectives can be realised through the passage of this Bill the Government and the Parliament will be thankful for the originating legislation and the support of the Parliament for it. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a statement by Georgi Ermolenko that he left Australia willingly last year, that his earlier decision to stay in Australia was a mistake, that there was no deal with Soviet officials and that he and his parents were given exit visas from Russia without threat, hindrance or penalty? Does the Minister recall the censure motion moved by  Senator Greenwood,  supported by Senators Sim, Withers, Carrick and others, against  Senator Willesee  in this chamber on 1 8 September 1974? Does the Minister remember that this censure motion was lost by a tied vote in the chamber because of the fair-minded approach of  Senator Steele  Hall? In view of the outrageous charges made against the Government's Foreign Minister, will the Minister discuss with the Leader of the Opposition an appropriate way for those honourable senators who sought to censure the Foreign Minister to apologise to  Senator Willesee? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that on today's 'AM' program an ex-serviceman who served in Vietnam claimed that there were several small private armies operating in Australia, largely made up of Australian veterans from Vietnam? Is it a fact that it is proposed that personnel from these groups, who have been training privately, intend to go to Saigon by private charter plane and to offer their services to the discredited Thieu regime? Will the Minister give an assurance thai: no facilities, including passports and airfields, will be made available to these paramilitary groups so that they can interfere in the internal affairs of South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster General. I refer to the dispute at the Sydney Mail Exchange which is seriously affecting mail deliveries in New South Wales. Can the Postmaster General give any indication of what steps are being taken to settle the dispute? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was a new publishing subsidy introduced in 1973 by the Australian Council for the Arts, through the Literature Board. 
Is this scheme assisting Australian-owned publishing firms who have limited financial resources. 
Does the scheme operate in such a way as to increase the employment possibilities of Australians in this industry. 
Will this new scheme promote the growth of the Australian publishing industry which is currently disadvantaged by overseas publishing houses. 
I heard some reference by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to the list of speakers in the debate. It seems to me that honourable senators opposite do not understand that the list of speakers opposite was composed of the 'never was-ers' and the has beens. The has beens have dictated their whole philosophical approach to this problem. We are confronted again, as we have been for the last 20-odd years, with the same rhetoric, the same concepts of deceit, lies and the basing of arguments on fear and emotion to try to convince the Australian people that in the Asian region there is some sort of threat to the Australian people. Resurrected again are the cold war warriors at a period in which even their own mentor, the United States, has taken energetic steps to re-establish a detente with the East to build a world free from the scourge of war. Of course this is not hard to understand, because it was the Menzies administration which brought the game of dominoes to Australia. The Liberal and Country Parties are still playing that game, whereas the Australian Labor Party Government and the people generally are more constructive and more concerned with playing the game of scrabble. The Liberal-Country Party coalition in the 1970s is seeking to reintroduce the sort of divisions and the sort of emotions which characterised its leadership in the whole of the 1950s and the 1960s. It wants to return us to an era of McCarthyism, to an Australia and a world living in fear- a fear which was manufactured, prompted and maintained by the prophet Menzies who told a hushed and frightened nation in 1951: 
It  is  my belief - 
I quote from Hansard. This was said by the man who funked his responsibilities in World War I: 
It is my belief that the state of the world is such that we cannot, and must not, give ourselves more than 3 years  in  which to get ready to defend ourselves. Indeed 3 years is a liberal estimate. 
How kind of him to accept responsibility. He continued: 
Nobody can guarantee that it may not be two years or one year. Certainly, nobody can say with authority that we have a day more than three years. 
What did he say when he reported to the House on the illegal, immoral and undeclared war into which his administration, including some honourable senators opposite who were members of Parliament then, plunged us? On 29 April 1965 he said: 
The war in Vietnam must be seen as a part of a thrust by Communist China between the Indian and Pacific oceans. 
Prime Minister Menzies was a liar. He lied to the Australian people. He misrepresented the position. The Liberal and Country Parties have misrepresented the position in subsequent years. Listening to question time yesterday and today and to the debate in the other place and in this place one would have imagined that we are confronted with the situation in which there are 2 countries in Vietnam. I heard questions asked yesterday which indicated clearly that Opposition members are playing on fear, hate and emotion and have no concept of the political or economic position in Asia and no understanding of the facts. They do not want to know the facts. They have sought to bring themselves to a position in which they can regain the Treasury benches of this country by moving motions such as this one, in the vain and inane hope that the Australian people will be beguiled as they were in the 1950s by the erroneous policies which were pursued by the parties which they represent. The fact is that there is one country in Vietnam, and every international declaration has accepted that. If I may I will just read very briefly from the declaration which was made at Geneva and signed as a result of the Vietnamese people defeating French colonialism. The Geneva Conference called upon France 'to respect the sovereignty, independence, the unity and territorial integrity of Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam '. I defy honourable senators and honourable members in the other place to find anywhere in the records of the United Nations, in any of the international protocols and declarations, any suggestion that there is a North Vietnam and a South Vietnam. The declaration to which the United States placed its signature called upon all the member countries at the conference 'to refrain from any interference in their internal affairs '. 
Once again we hear  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and those other cold war warriors endeavouring to talk about communism, the thrusts, the hordes of Asia and all those emotive terms which beguiled the Australian people in the 1950s and 1960s. The fact is that,  Sir Robert  Menzies said that the thrust, and the threat facing the Australian people was the thrust and the threat from China. It is a significant fact that in the period between 1944 and 1954 when the Geneva Agreement was signed no Chinese soldiers were ever found in Vietnam, North or South. In fact, no Chinese soldiers have been found there in the last decade, since the Menzies Administration illegally committed the Australian people to intervene as a Western power in a civil war that had been raging in the country of Vietnam for centuries. In fact, honourable senators opposite ought to be hanging their heads in shame because in that country of Vietnam the people have fought for their national independence over a considerable number of years. 
They fought against the Japanese thrust centuries ago. Please do not blame Mao Tse-tung. He was not even a glitter in his grandfather's eyes, so please do not associate him with that. In the early period of Asian history China, the Mongols and many different races had in one way or another invaded and attempted to occupy the region known as Vietnam. Then, of course, the French took it over and it was a French colony for several centuries. The people fought for their national independence as they were entitled to do, just as the American people were entitled to do in 1770 when they waged their War of Independence, and as people all over the world are fighting for the principles of self-determination and independence. What honourable senators do not seem to appreciate is that the very forces, the very people, the very leadership they now condemn were our allies in World War II, and that the Vietminh, which constituted the liberation armies of Vietnam, were the people who collaborated with the South-East Asian command. They were the people who collaborated with the Allies against Japanese occupation which took over the country from the French in the early days of 1939-40 and occupied. Then in collaboration with the Vichy forces, as honourable senators will recall, there was the sell-out by the conservatives of France to the Hitler forcesthe people with whom honourable senators opposite have a philosophical association. The people of Vietnam fought for their independence even in those difficult days. 
The plain facts are that at the time when the war was coming to an end after Dien Bien Phu, after the defeat of the French in that period, the line that was drawn across the country was for the purpose of establishing an orderly withdrawal of French forces. It is interesting that in the Geneva Agreement it was conceded that at no time was that line to be regarded as a permanent division of that country. Documents are available if honourable senators want the truth. An International Security Agency letter to the United States State Department on 22 April 1955 stated: 
In considering the question of elections - 
At that time the question of elections for the people of Vietnam was a burning issue-  the assumption that the Viet-Minh would not agree to free elections could well be erroneous despite the consistent Communist rejection of election proposals for the unification of Germany, Austria and Korea. 
So the United States State Department was recognising a different indigenous position in this part of the world in Asia. That letter continues: 
In other countries, the Communists control only a minority of the population, whereas in Vietnam they control the majority. 
This report went on to say that it was in the southern part of Vietnam that the Vietminh and the communists had the overwhelming allegiance of the Vietnamese people. 
If  Senator Sim  is prepared to open his mind and his eyes and become intelligent he will find that former  President  Eisenhower in his memoirs said that if there had been an election at the time when the Geneva Agreement was signed the forces of Ho Chi Minh who was a communist and a popular liberation leader, would have won 80 per cent of the popular support. What did General Collins say in a letter to the United States Secretary of State, Dulles? He said: 
There is no proper grass roots support of any leader in Vietnam, leaving aside Ho Chi Minh. 
So we- the affluent West- determine that we are going to decide what the people of that country shall have as their government, and what form of society they will have. There is overwhelming evidence that the people of that country wanted to have something to say about determining their own future. We have had the Paris Agreements which the American, the South Vietnam and the North Vietnam governments signed in Paris in 1973. Again in the precise wording of the Agreements they recognised one country- Vietnam. They did not accept the right of the country to be divided into halves. They did not accept that South Vietnam and North Vietnam were 2 separate countries, yet we hear honourable senators of the eminence and seniority of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack talking about North Vietnam invading South Vietnam, lt is like talking about Queenslanders invading New South Wales. Of course if peanuts continue running the country, as they do in Queensland, it is conceivable that at some stage in the future there will be a situation in which there will be civil war and civil strife between the people of Queensland and the people of New South Wales and an Australian central government which would be endeavouring to bring about a unification of the position. Honourable senators in this place would be getting up and talking about Queensland versus New South Wales as though they were not part of the one nation. 
We heard  Senator Withers  ask: 'Can we trust the words of the Australian Prime Minister? Can we trust  Dr Cairns?'  How can one trust the Liberal senators who stabbed this Government in the back in 1974 and forced a double dissolution? How can one trust Liberal senators who stabbed their own leader,  Mr Snedden,  in the back only a few weeks ago and thrust him aside after they had little secret meetings in Sydney and in Melbourne, and who now have some of the crumbs from the table? These are the people who say that you cannot trust people. Heavens above, did not the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  tell this Parliament how the Australian Government in 1964 and in 1968 in a memorandum requested the United States Government not to take the matter of Vietnam to the United Nations? This is the Opposition which when it was in Government in the early 1 960s involved us in war in Vietnam ostensibly and only for the reason that it was a United States sanctioned war. But when it came to the problem of a civil war in Vietnam,  Mr McMahon  said that the matter of Vietnam should be not debated in the United Nations because by taking it to the Security Council attempts might be made to restrain our freedom of action in regard to military operations. The hypocrisy of the members of the Opposition knows no bounds and I hope that the commonsense of the Senate and of the Australian people will never allow them to be hoodwinked again by the propaganda of the Liberal and Country Parties. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Government generally followed a policy of settling all international differences by political means rather than by military involvement? Has the Australian Government followed this principle in the recent developments in Portuguese Timor? Is the Australian Government convinced that as a result of our good relations with Indonesia the people of Portuguese Timor will be able to gain their independence from Portugal and that the Australian and Indonesian Governments will assist the Timorese people in their moves for self-determination? 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted the statement made by the Christian Democratic Party, which is the largest political party in Chile, that the present regime in Chile is fascist, tyrannical and brutal and that the people have the urgent task of restoring democracy in that unhappy land? Will the Minister give some consideration to conveying moral support to the parties, legal and illegal, in Chile as they endeavour to re-establish democratic procedures in that country and defeat the military dictatorship? 
-Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen a letter in this morning's 'Australian Financial Review' from the  President  of the Australian Insurance Association in Sydney which suggests that because the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office will not be subject to the Insurance Act and the Life Insurance Act it will have an unfair trading advantage? Can the Minister tell us why the proposed Australian Government insurance office should not be subject to the same solvency requirements as are imposed on private companies? 
The Senate is debating Appropriation and Supply Bills that are designed to carry forward the Budget and the social welfare programs of the Government which were established in the 1974 Budget to which have been added new commitments the Government has entered into in the ensuing months. It is interesting that in this debate, and in the debate in the House of Representatives, no senator or member has been prepared to criticise the items listed in the Appropriation and Supply Bills or to suggest the deletion or reduction of those items. Rather we have been treated to the inevitable rantings and ravings of the knockers as frenzied speakers, one after another, have suggested that this Government has no understanding of the economic problems facing the country and is not endeavouring to face up to its responsibility to bring about the reallocation of resources and a more equal society. 
Not one honourable senator has suggested that the defence quota in these Bills should be reduced, or that we should reduce the money paid to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Accounts, or to education areas, or to foreign affairs whether in areas of food assistance or aid to other countries. On numerous occasions honourable senators in this chamber have asked questions of the Government, suggesting that there should be some increase in these areas of public expenditure. Honourable senators who have raised local government questions and rural problems have themselves suggested some additional funding in those areas of public expenditure.  Senator Carrick  used his time, as he invariably does, to attack the basic policies of the Government in a most destructive way which does not assist the Government in solving the grave economic problems that face this country. At least  Senator Carrick  's colleague,  Senator Scott,  admits that a problem faces the whole of the Western world. 
Is it suggested by honourable senators that the economic problems that face this country are different from the economic problems that face countries that have conservative governmentsfor example, France or the United States. Do they suggest that governments with conservative philosophies are solving the economic problems in those countries, and that therefore the policies and philosophies of Opposition spokesmen in this country are capable of solving our problems? One must refer to the fact that the Opposition Parties have made many changes in their leadership in recent times. These changes have been made because those Parties have appreciated that the leadership was previously not making any impact and was not able to produce the sorts of policies designed to meet the economic wellbeing of this country. I suggest that, in his speech in the House of Representatives on 1 7 April, the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  has taken exactly the same stance as that taken in this place by  Senator Carrick. Mr Fraser  said: 
In these circumstances, it is nonsense to suggest that the Opposition should say where and how it would curb the rate of Government expenditure when it comes to power. 
Then, amongst a lot of philosophical meandering, he said:   we would give high priority to allowing individual Australians a greater right to determine more of their own economic and social destiny. 
Those fine words mean absolutely nothing. They are platitudes that have no consequence while those parties are in Opposition, and they would have no consequence should those parties, by some mischance, become the Government.  Mr Fraser  added: 
We would give great priority to the continued improvement of education and to the provision of facilities for the disadvantaged. Their right to protection now- and following any further economic madness of this Governmentwould be preserved. We would give high priority to the right of the private sector to be able to make profits, whether they be large corporations or small one-man businesses. 
So  Mr Fraser  echoes the same sort of mish-mash that was characteristic of his predecessor,  Mr Snedden,  whether as Leader of the Opposition Parties or as Treasurer. Of course,  Senator Carrick  lightly glossed over the fact that the increase in the money supply, which his Party was principally associated with in 1972, was a relevant factor in the inflation with which this Government has had to contend in its 2 years of office. 
Without doubt in 1 972 the then Government increased the money supply by some 26 per cent. Undoubtedly Opposition members would have to concede that in the same period, in 1 97 1 -72, in which they had responsibility for the economy of this country they permitted an inflow of capital from overseas of more than $3,300m. So when we added this inflow of capital from overseas, as a result of favourable exports from our primary and secondary industries, to the increase in the money supply, it was inevitable that inflation would take off like a jet plane, and that is precisely what has happened. Honourable senators suggest that this Government is responsible for the present state of affairs, yet in 1973 we deliberately restricted the increase in the money supply to  J  per cent, compared to a 26 per cent increase in the preceding year.  Senator Carrick  went on to say that we were responsible for the credit squeeze. He cannot have it both ways. If we reduce the money supply in Australia clearly there is a shortage of money in circulation. Of course we are confronted with a position in a socalled free enterprise society in which a government has very limited powers and opportunities to control the private sector of the economy. 
Like other honourable senators I am invariably restricted in debates on economic matters because of the excessive time that is taken up by Opposition senators and therefore I am restricted to only half the time that  Senator Carrick  had. I want to speak principally on the question of public expenditure and, I hope, to nail the lie put forward by the Opposition parties and their new found friend, the economist Milton Friedman, who suggested that the panacea for the problems of the economies of the Western countries resides solely in the area of reducing public expenditure. The fact is that when we examined public expenditure in Australia- I have been supplied with figures by the Statistical Group of the Parliamentary Library and I hope that honourable senators will take some cognisance of their reliability- the facts showed that the Australian Government is associated with only 35 per cent of public funding but the State authorities are associated with 55.6 per cent; the local authorities, to which today  Senator Scott  and last evening  Senator Bunton  referred, are associated with 9.3 per cent of public funding. 
It is an incredible state of affairs that the senators from the parties opposite should take the view that all we have to do to right the state of the economy, which the Australian Government has very little power to determine because of the free enterprise philosophy that exists within this country, is for the Australian Government to reduce its expenditure. I put it to the Senate that this is a hypocritical and contradictory position to the philosophy even of the Liberal Party itself. I refer to the statement that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in June of last year when he suggested that if we were to curb inflationary trends in Australia it was essential for all governments to exercise some restraint in their public spending. Of course we all know that the Premiers, particularly the non-Labor Premiers, made a great hullabaloo about that advice which the Prime Minister gave at that time. I refer to some of their statement that have been published in the newspapers in the intervening few months. One report states: 
The four non-Labor Premiers decided today to ask the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  for $420m more for the States. 
Of this $300m would help them stop further increases in State taxes and charges and, when possible, enable them to reduce taxes. 
The 'West Australian' of 5 February 1975 reported, referring to a statement by  Sir Charles  Court: 
Western Australia will ask the Federal Government for about $30m- 
Another article stated, referring to the meeting of the Premiers in February of this year: 
Queensland's success at the Premiers Conference on Friday was positive proof that negotiation could be more advantageous than confrontation, the Treasurer and  Deputy  Premier  (Sir Gordon Chalk)  said yesterday. 
A jubilant  Sir Gordon  said Queensland had achieved what previously had been regarded as the impossible. 
So one could go on from State to State giving example of what  Mr Hamer, Mr Lewis  and the other Premiers have said demanding financial assistance from this Government to expand their public works activities. Yet not once did we hear the Opposition senators suggesting to, or taking steps to influence, their State counterparts that they should exercise some restraint in this area of public expenditure. 
The whole of the contribution in the House of Representatives and in the Senate by those who have taken the negative side, as distinct from the more positive point of view of the last  speaker, Senator Scott,  has been to suggest that the Commonwealth should in fact reduce its public spending. It is interesting that even in the $16 billion expenditure to which the Australian Government was committed in its 1 974-75 Budget program something in excess of $3,750,000 was earmarked to go to the States in direct grants. We are confronted with a situation in which unless we seriously control and exercise restraint on the growth of the money supply within our community inflation will take off again. These are the considerations which are exercising the Government's mind at this time. If we were to increase the money supply to the degree which the previous Government did certainly there would be a continuation of the inflation which has been such a problem in recent years. A great deal more money would be circulating in our community than is there at the moment. 
Of course this Government has taken quite energetic steps to see that capital inflow is restricted to exercise as much restraint as is within the powers provided by the Constitution to control the money supply within the community. It is not right for the Opposition senators to create the impression that the Government is responsible for the credit squeeze if at the same time they indicate that the Government should be increasing the money supply. If we increase the money supply, unless a great deal of restraint is exercised in this field, clearly the economy again will get out of focus. We cannot take much notice, I point out to  Senator Carrick,  of the predictions of Treasury. Even 2 previous leaders of the Liberal Party, both  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Snedden,  have pointed out the inadequate and incorrect advice given by the Treasury from time to time. 
The Appropriation Bills will continue the social program of this Government. We know that the Bills will be favourably considered by the Senate because at long last the Opposition has seen fit to recognise its role in this place and to play a much more responsible part than it did in 1 974 when it stated that it would defeat the Government on the Appropriation Bills. I urge their adoption. I believe they will be pan of the program of the Government that will ultimately rectify the economic downturn which was the result not of this Government's policies but of those of the previous administration. 
We have been regaled for the umpteenth time by the Opposition Parties with comments about the policies that the Australian Government has pursued, since it came to power in 1972, to seek a peaceful end to the bloody war that has raged in Vietnam for 30 years. The Government is obliged to the honourable senators opposite who have sought to suggest that it is a travesty that the Australian Government should take an attitude of even-handedness in this conflict, of endeavouring to bring this conflict to a successful and peaceful end. It is unreal for honourable senators to suggest that it should be the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who should be on trial. In point of fact, this Government has consistently made known its policy and attitude in respect of the war in Vietnam since Australia was illegally, immorally and improperly involved in the war in 1965 by the Menzies Administration. 
Having read the cables and the communications between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Saigon Government and the Government of North Vietnam I can only come to the conclusion that the Opposition parties have no policy, have no explanation and have no defence for their long standing involvement in that war. In point of fact, if we examine the cables and the letters in the context of the Prime Minister's communication to President Thieu of 13 March and to Hanoi on 2 April we see the point is made consistently in both of those communications, as indeed it is in all of the other communications between the Australian Government and the 2 governments of Vietnam. I will quote from the text of the telegram to Hanoi of 2 April. It reads: 
We would like to see in Saigon a government which will genuinely negotiate for unification as provided for in the Paris Agreements. 
I find it difficult to understand the interpretation and the connotation that Opposition speakers place upon that simple statement. That communication also says: 
In this connection, the Australian Government believes that it would have a most favourable effect if the PRG were to make it clear that recent military operations had had the aim of applying pressure to secure the observance of the ignored political provisions of the Paris Agreements . . . 
The facts are that the Paris Agreements were signed in January 1973. They had as their aim the withdrawal from Vietnam of foreign troops with an active role. They had as their aim the eventual establishment in South Vietnam- I emphasise the words 'South Vietnam'- of a government of national reconciliation and that government of national reconciliation was to have representatives of the Saigon Administration, representatives of the PRG and representatives of the Third Force. The sad fact is that  President  Thieu had his arm twisted in respect of those agreements and never from the moment of signing did he endeavour to live up to the agreements. He never sought to carry out their objectives. He never sought to apply any principles that could have brought an end to the conflict. I find it hard to understand how in the Australian context of politics the members of the Liberal and Country Parties almost without exception can maintain the same political position in respect of South-East Asia and Indo-China as they held from the moment they became involved in this war in 1964. This is quite contrary to the general political developments in all other countries. For example, in the United States Administration there was a large number of people who were described as hawks who supported the war in the very early days and in the middle stages of the American involvement in Vietnam and who subsequently publicly condemned not only their own attitude to the war but also America's involvement in the war. For some unknown reason the Opposition parties have maintained their attitude, have failed to understand the changing situation in Vietnam and now find themselves completely on the defensive in respect of the whole of that unholy period during which Australia was involved in that war. 
There is plenty of evidence to show that it was  President  Thieu himself in South Vietnam who was the principal offender against the Paris Agreements. For example, he did not release any political prisoners, though this was provided for in the Paris Agreements. Are honourable senators going to deny that one of the first acts of General 'Big' Van Minh, the last  President  of South Vietnam, when he came to office by unanimous decision of the South Vietnamese Parliament was to release all of the political prisoners whom  President  Thieu had suggested did not exist? The North Vietnamese did carry out their part of the bargain because the other part of the agreement was that the South Vietnamese were to cany out their obligations in return for the release of prisoners of war held by the North Vietnamese including American prisoners of war and all the other foreign troops who were prisoners of war. 
In respect of men and equipment in South Vietnam at the end of the period which culminated in the Paris Agreements, I quote from one of the most authorative journals in the United States known as 'Foreign Affairs'. In an article of January of this year Maynard Parker had this to say: 
Almost from the moment the agreement was signed, President Thieu took to the offensive in an attempt to eradicate the communist ink spots and to confine the communists to their sanctuaries. 
The staff report of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee had this to say on Vietnam in May 1 974: 
In the first year after the ceasefire, it was estimated by analysts in Saigon that the PRG had lost 15 per cent of the territory it controlled in January 1973 to Saigon's offensive, while Saigon gained control of 6.2 per cent more of the population (about 1 million persons) by its police and military operations in formerly PRG and contested areas. 
Yet we still hear honourable senators such as the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Carrick,  speaking as though all of the blame in respect of this conflict lies on one side. It is correct that the Prime Minister should say in his letter to  President  Thieu on 13 March: 
The responsibility for this situation - 
That is the failure to honour the Paris Accords-  cannot be placed on North Vietnam alone. 
Time and time again Opposition senators and to some extent some irresponsible sections of Australian newspapers have endeavoured to cloud the issue in respect of North Vietnam and South Vietnam. I refer to the Geneva Agreement to which all of the nations involved put their signature, with the exception of the United States, although it did give an undertaking at the time that it would honour a particular agreement. Section 6 of the Geneva Agreement of 1 954 says: 
The Conference recognises that the essential purpose of the agreement relating to Viet Nam is to settle military questions with a view to ending hostilities and that the military demarcation line is provisional and should not in any way be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary. 
I refer honourable senators to Article 15 (a) of the 1 973 Peace Agreement which says: 
The Military demarcation between the two zones at the 1 7th parallel is only a provisional and not a political or territorial boundary, as provided for in paragraph 6 of the Final Declaration of the 1 954 Geneva Conference. 
Yet time and time again in the House of Representatives, in this place and in public debate generally throughout Australia we hear arguments, distortions and lies to the effect that there are in fact 2 distinct areas in Vietnam. In my view it is the Opposition parties which should be on public trial in Australia today, not the Australian Government, not the Prime Minister and not the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to documents which have become available and were published recently in the 'National Times'. There has been authoritative denial by any of the persons named in the documents. Most of them are still alive, including retired members of the Liberal and Country Parties, and indeed some are holding other public offices and some of course are still senior offices in the Public Service. What do those documents show? They show that Australia in 1 962 illegally sent troops to Vietnam and that that information was withheld from the Australian Parliament and the Australian people. Yet we have the spectacle of members of the Opposition trying to put this Government on trial when they themselves were guilty of years of deceit, lies and misrepresentation to the Australian people. 
Not once were the Australian people told that in 1962 we had sent certain troops to Vietnam to act as instructors and so on in guerrilla warfare. An examination of these documents which have now been published has revealed that on 10 June 1964 Australian troops had most likely exchanged shots with Vietcong guerrillas. Four days later, on 14 June, in Saigon  Mr Hasluck,  then 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, was asked would Australia send troops if the military situation deteriorated. At that time we already had troops in South Vietnam. He said that that was a hypothetical question and he was not prepared to comment. He did not have the courage nor the integrity to admit even in those days that Australian troops were involved in that country. Messrs Menzies, Casey, Barwick, Hasluck, McEwen, the late Athol Townley, the late Harold Holt, the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge, and the public servants Tange, Waller and Scherger were the people who deliberately withheld information from the Australian Parliament and the Australian people. They are the people who ought to have been indicted in respect of the tragedy that was Vietnam. We, the Australian people and the Australian Government, were associated with that tragedy as a result of the infamous attitude of the Menzies Administration. 
It is no wonder that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the Leader of the Opposition, does not want publication of the official documents of that period. The record shows that a little cave, a little inner group within the Australian Cabinet, consisting of half a dozen of the senior Ministers, knew about Australia's involvement some months before it was reported even to the Australian Parliament. Not even all members of the Government, not even members of that Government's parties, not even all members of the Parliament and least of all the Australian people had any understanding or knowledge of Australia's involvement in this war.  Sir Robert  Menzies lied to the Australian people, he lied to his own Party and he lied to the Australian Parliament. There was gross misrepresentation and gross deceit. Today members of the Opposition have the temerity and the gall to stand here and misread the documents which were made publicly available, the communications with governments with which we have proper representation, namely, the Governments of North Vietnam and South Vietnam. 
We have heard about the great domino theory with which honourable senators opposite have regaled this chamber year in and year out. They said that if something were to happen in one or two countries in South-East Asia they would fall just as dominoes would fall. What have we seen in the last few days? The Prime Minister of Singapore, the Prime Minister of Malaysia and the Prime Minister of Laos have deprecated this simplistic approach to the civil war that has raged in that part of South-East Asia. We have heard a great deal about  Mr Peacock  who was strutting around South-East Asia some three or four weeks ago. What did  Mr Peacock,  this great new expert who has suddenly emerged on the scene and who knows all about foreign affairs, say on his return to Australia on 7 April this year after his long talk to  President  Thieu?  Mr Peacock  was reported in this way: 
South Vietnam's  President  Thieu has no intention of stepping down and appears to be a man in absolute control. This is the verdict of the Opposition spokesman on Foreign Affairs,  Mr Andrew  Peacock, the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, and the Country Party MP for Riverina,  Mr John  Sullivan, after a one and a half hour meeting with the  President  in the palace library in Saigon yesterday. 

 Mr Peacock, the man who has now become the expert, has never held the portfolio of foreign affairs in any government. He went on a fact finding tour and on returning appeared on television and spoke in the House of Representatives. He is the man presented today in this debate and in the debate in the other House as the principal person who understands foreign affairs and the principle spokesman for the Opposition parties on foreign affairs. It is about time the conservatives of this country grew up. It is about time they faced reality on the world scene, as  President  Ford, the former  President  Nixon and the Conservative  President  of France have done. What would have happened if the Australian Government had dared to take the awful initiatives that the  President  of France took in a circular he sent to all members of Parliament on 14 April? It bears the heading: 
Declaration by the  President  of the Republic of France 9 April 1975. 
This circular was issued while  President  Thieu was still in command and 2 days after  Mr Peacock  had made his pious pronouncements. What did the  President  of the Republic of France say? He recognised the Provisional Revolutionary Government as the sole and legitimate government of South Vietnam. He said: 
To end the suffering of the South Vietnamese people- to whom 1 express the deep friendship of the French people- to allow the South Vietnamese people to preserve the characteristics to which they are attached, no other solution exists except the urgent application of Article 12 of the Paris Agreement which calls for the setting up of a political solution in a spirit of conciliation and without any side trying to eliminate the other. 
Those are precisely the words of the Australian Prime Minister in the communications to both Hanoi and Saigon seeking the establishment of a trinity of government by the 3 main political forces in South Vietnam. The stupidity of the Americans and of honourable senators opposite and their parties when in government has brought about the inevitable development of a probable Communist government in Vietnam. If the Paris Agreements had been carried out- this Labor Government was committed to themthere would have been a coalition government of those 3 main forces. Perhaps  President  Thieu may not have been a participant but the forces around which he worked and with which he associated would have been represented in the government- the Buddhist and the Catholic group which has acted as a moderating force between the left and the right, if honourable senators want to put it in that way- with the PRG. The PRG after all is not a Communist organisation or a Communist government. It represents the various strands of thought in South Vietnam. That would have been the sort of government which would have taken over in Saigon. 
The Opposition parties find it impossible to live with world reality. They find it impossible to live with Asian reality. They have not one friend in Asia who supports their political line. Chiang Kai-shek died a few weeks ago and probably there will be new developments in that country. Where do the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Laos and all the other countries making up that part of South-East Asia stand? Did any of them get involved in the Vietnam war? Were Japanese or Filipino troops involved? They were not. The fact is that those Asian countries who knew the region were determined not to be involved in that civil war. So it is with great regret and great sadness that again I have to draw attention to the inability of the Opposition parties to come face to face with what is happening in the world and in the area of foreign affairs. The Australian Labor Government and the Prime Minister have achieved international eminence because of their understanding of current world events. 
I find it hard to understand, unless it is for cheap party political purposes, why the Opposition parties should be endeavouring to censure the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this chamber. Simultaneously the House of Representatives is debating a motion of censure against the Prime Minister. Surely the conservatives would have been given sufficient opportunity to express their point of view in that debate. Knowing that they have got the numbers in this place, they want to repeat the travesty that they perpetrated over the Ermolenko question six or seven months ago. They want to use their numbers to roll through some sort of a censure motion that will seek to humiliate the Minister for Foreign Affairs. They may do that, but history will record that they are as wrong on this issue as they were in the 1 930s when the principal forces of conservatism in this country, including the 'Sydney Morning Herald'- that remark was directed specifically at  Senator Carrick-  defended Hitler, appeasement and Munich but opposed the principle of collective security. They were wrong in those days. Honourable members opposite should read in the Hansard reports the statements made in this Parliament by  Sir Robert  Menzies defending Hitler and the rise of fascism in Germany. The conservatives were wrong then and they have been wrong ever since, including over Vietnam. It does not matter how many censure motions the Opposition moves. It does not matter how many times it censures members of the Governmentthe Opposition has the numbers in this place- it will not succeed in eradicating its own guilt in respect of the whole horrible, shameful involvement of Australia in the war in Vietnam in 1 964. 
I present the following petition from 13 661 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That death taxes cause distress and humiliation to thousands of Australians, particularly widows, many of whom are left in serious financial difficulties; 
That death taxes are actually an additional tax, levied on people's savings to such an extent, that thousands have been forced to sell their properties to meet these taxes in a time of bereavement; 
Despite the original intention that these taxes be applied to break up large estates and spread the wealth of the Commonwealth, these large estates have been able to apply Tax avoidance' and so 'evade' considerable death taxes, whereas smaller estates have been unable. to do this. As a result, the intentions of the legislation have failed; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should take action immediately to Abolish Estate and Gift Duties, (following the example of Canada, which has taken action to abolish these duties as from the 1st of January, 1972) and devise a method of providing financial assistance to the States, so that they in turn, can follow the lead of this Government, and abolish Probate and Succession duties, or raise the minimum to $100,000 value for all estates before death duties become applicable. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I seek leave to table documents, signed by several hundred thousand citizens of the Commonwealth, supporting the subject matter of the petition. 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is it a fact that less money is being made available in New South Wales for the campaign to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis in cattle? Also, is it a fact that there has been a reduction in tuberculosis testing in that State? If this is so, will the Minister advise the Senate why this is happening? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. On 22 April the Minister answered a question relating to policy conditions for non-white, non-Europeans applying for insurance with the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd. What action can the Minister take to eliminate these types of practices especially in view of the fact that the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd is not the only company to discriminate against Australian citizens in this way? Is the Minister aware of the racial discriminatory practices contained in a document known as 'The Manual of Policy and Information' of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd? 
We have witnessed in this debate another example of the perversity of the conservatives in this chamber, another example of the division of opinion within the ranks of the Opposition and another example of obstructionism. Honourable senators opposite even took steps to deny a Government supporter the opportunity to incorporate in the record of this Parliament some of the racist propaganda which abounds in this country and which this Bill seeks to contain and stop. The absurd situation is that in the other place and in this chamber people who do not know whether they should support or oppose the proposition spend most of their time saying why the Bill is weak, why the Bill should be amended and why it should not be considered, but at the same time they are suggesting that the Opposition parties will support the legislation. 
It is unbelievable that we should find a former Attorney-General of the previous administration castigating this Government for utilising the external powers under the Constitution to ratify an international document to which his Government put its signature on 13 October 1966, having taken something like 10 months to make up its mind about what it should do in relation to a convention agreed to by the United Nations. The conservatives and the conservative governments in this country turned to the United Nations time and time again to try to justify their involvement in, for example, the war in Korea. The United 
Nations set out fundamental principles about human behaviour and human beings, yet in this debate today we have seen members of this House talcing the point that the Australian Government is acting improperly in attempting to ratify and have adopted the principles of the international organisation. I ask  Senator Greenwood  and his cohorts: What did they do in the 6 years during which they had the opportunity of ratifying the convention and introducing the essential legislation to make it operative within the Australian continent? The previous Government stands indicted for its failure to give legislative effect to the provisions to which it put its signature on 13 October 1966. It is somewhat incongruous that we find the Opposition parties criticising this Government which outlined in its policy speech- it also is in the program of the Australian Labor Party- its determination to play a significant part in abolishing any forms of racial, political and economic discrimination in this country. 
This is a timely piece of legislation. It will be a milestone in the evolution of democracy in this country. It sets itself the task of creating a freer society yet members of the Opposition parties in the other place and in this House are endeavouring to suggest that certain clauses should be opposed. They propose to move amendments subsequent to the second reading debate. 
I find racism the most objectionable and most obnoxious form of discrimination. I cannot understand how any Australian, or for that matter, any person can ever defend the sort of discrimination that has taken place in this country and many other countries. I cannot understand how any senator or any member of parliament can justify the racist propaganda to which  Senator Coleman  referred and to which I will refer in my speech. The Bill sets out very simply to ratify an international convention to make it unlawful for any person to practice racial discrimination. Who can disagree with those objectives? This Government is seeking to introduce legislation designed to meet Australia's obligations under the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. Surely no senator or member of this national Parliament can disagree with those propositions. 
It is not hard to understand why members of the Opposition parties squirm and seek to find some means of defending their past practices, of defending the status quo attitude which exists within this country. They are seeking to denigrate the Australian Government over this piece of legislation. I can quote no better authority on the question of racial discrimination than the founder of the Australian Liberal Party,  Sir Robert  Menzies. As reported in the 'Catholic Worker' in April 1965 the former Leader of the Party and Prime Minister at the time said: 
Let me say this clearly and categorically; the White Australia Policy is under no challenge in this Parliament or in this country, except by bad administration. It is the settled policy of this country. It is the settled policy of the party which I have the honour to lead . . . I myself believe in it most profoundly. 
That is what was said by the leader of the conservative parties in the Parliament of Australia in 1965. Yet within a year the Commonwealth Government led by his successor,  Mr Holt,  saw fit, on the basis of international pressures and for other reasons, to be a signatory to the international covenant. 
The covenant recognises some basic fundamental principles, namely, that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Any doctrine of superiority based on racial differentiation is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust, dangerous and without any justification. I find it hard to understand the logic or the philosophical position of honourable senators opposite who have the temerity to criticise the Government in the context of this piece of legislation. Nobody can disagree, surely, with the proposition that racial discrimination continues to flourish in this country. My colleague,  Senator Coleman,  has given abundant evidence that this form of racial discrimination exists very far and very wide in our country. Token admission of it without action, token ratification of international conventions without legislation, is just not good enough. What is required are strong, operable, measures designed to eliminate racial discrimination in order that a more free and equal Australian society can emerge from the scourge of prejudice. Who can say that in the past there has not been abundant evidence of prejudice within the country? Who can say that they have not heard the words pommy', 'wog', 'dago', 'refo' and those sorts of words used quite commonly in our community. 
The Bill does not operate only on a legal front. It recognises also that racial discrimination cannot be curbed solely by legal means. I suppose on that point I could perhaps agree in a very limited way with what  Senator Greenwood  had to say. Sure, just sheer legalism will not eradicate this scourge from within our community. Emphasis is placed on the need for and promotion of educational programs, and that is what is involved in this legislation. It is concerned with research programs and studies in order to achieve understanding about human relations, to achieve understanding about human beings, to achieve tolerance and friendship among all people living in Australia regardless of racial and ethnic differences. That, of course, is what the Liberal Party constitution stands for. Those members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party who have some doubts about the basic objectives of this piece of legislation ought to read their constitution. 
The legislation sets out to form a community relations council which is to be set up pursuant to section 3 1 for that express purpose. I am grateful for the small mercy that at least  Mr W.  C. Wentworth in another place said that he would support that portion of the legislation which seeks to implement the Convention and to carry out a program of education in order that racial discrimination is no longer fostered in our community. On the third front against racial discrimination the Bill provides for the settlement of alleged racial discrimination by non-legal means. These functions are to be carried out by the Commissioner for Community Relations.  Senator Sheil,  who preceded me in the debate, seemed to think that if some responsibility were passed on to an eminent person within the community to examine and regulate these problems of discrimination it would result in the setting up some form of bureaucracy and that that should be avoided at all costs. The fact that he made that comment is not hard to understand because  Senator Sheil  comes from the most racist State in Australia, the State of Queensland. 
In the event that the Commissioner is unable to effect a settlement, court proceedings may be instituted. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that, in the context in which I have expressed the sentiments, legalism does not assume a paramount importance. According to the legislation, every endeavour is to be made by the Commissioner to settle the matter, to promote understanding, to deal with the lesser excesses of racial discrimination in a non-legal manner. Compulsory conferences between the parties concerned and the Commissioner are provided for in the legislation. The emphasis is not on legalism. The emphasis is on negotiation, persuasion and agreement. A discretionary flexibility exists in the carrying out of these duties. I point out to  Senator Greenwood  that they are not legal proceedings. The very nature of the problem demands that flexibility should exist and should be utilised by those charged with the responsibility. In order that these functions can be carried out it is also necessary, however, that penalties exist for non-attendance or failure to comply with the direction to attend the conference. 
Last year I was a representative of the Senate at the conference in London of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I witnessed racial discrimination in that country. In fact, I saw the start of a march which had as its purpose the prevention of coloured migration to England. I did not witness the unfortunate death of the student leader, but I was appalled at the attitude of the ordinary people of England. They considered that their social and economic problems could be eliminated by the sheer simplistic approach of stopping coloured migration. It was a matter of great shame and regret that I witnessed people being whipped up in the hysteria of racialism in that country. It is to be hoped that we can avoid that sort of experience in our country, but I wonder whether we can when I hear honourable senators opposite and when I read the outmoded and outdated attitudes expressed in the other place by people who hitherto slavishly wedded themselves to the white Australia policy. 
The role of education in eradicating social discrimination cannot be over-emphasised, and the Bill does precisely that. The role can be made more meaningful and effective if expressions and actions of racial discrimination are prohibited. No longer will it be possible for misguided racially biased information to be circulated without the threat of sanction. The freedom of speech of the individual is to be restricted by the measures of the Act no more than by the restriction imposed by our laws of defamation. Without this legal sanction the Bill would have little effect in curbing racial discrimination. The Bill would be nothing more than an empty declaration of good intent or a belated recognition that racial discrimination exists in our country. No one could assert that there is no racial discrimination in Australia. The campaign by which the Opposition Parties profited in the Riverina in May 1974 is to their everlasting shame. They did not decry the campaign against the Minister for Immigration in the first Whitlam Government. They did not disown the propaganda that sought to defeat a Minister because he was carrying out a humane and enlightened immigration policy. The gentleman who today sits in the other place representing the Opposition Parties ought to hang his head in shame because of the sort of propaganda which was carried out in the campaign. 
One advertisement which appeared in a newspaper circulating in the Griffith area on 15 May 1975 said this: 
If you want an Asian (or African) neighbour vote Labor and leave it to Grassby. 
Yet  Mr Sullivan  is one of those people who only in these last few weeks were criticising the Government in respect of the refugee problem in South Vietnam and were suggesting that we should open the doors to bring in refugees from South-East Asia. He was elected as the member for Riverina because of that dirty, vicious, racist campaign- the most racist campaign that has ever been waged in this country. Yet honourable senators opposite have never once condemned that campaign. In fact, they welcomed that campaign because it gave them some political advantage. 
One has only to look at the record. Australia scores another first as being the only nation in the modern world to succeed in exterminating a distinct race of people. I think it is significant that the perverse character who refused leave to  Senator Coleman  to table documents on racism comes from the State that carried out a policy of genocide of its Aborigines. Tasmania exterminated its Aborigines in the last century. That fact ought to be a constant reminder to us of what happens when people advocate armchair fashion attitudes and policies against discrimination and do nothing. That ought to be a living memory to us of what doing nothing and saying nothing means to an indigenous people. Who thinks that words are stronger than deeds- those who deny the existence of racism, those who talk about prejudice as if it does not exist, those who say this legislation ought not to be carried and those who are concerned to protect the guilty rather than the innocent victims of racial discrimination? If a racial discrimination Bill ought to have been in operation at any time it was at the time that the Tasmanian Aborigines were being exterminated by the settlers in that State. We did not have to kill them; we just waited to see them die. In the prevailing atmosphere of that .period of our history very few members of the conservative parties raised a voice about the events in that State. We made their conditions unbearable. We took away their cultural heritage. That happened not only to Tasmanian Aborigines but to Aborigines generally. We take away their land, their self-respect, and we impose our system which we say is superior. We condone and support inequities while claiming it is unintentional. All of us are guilty, by our passive conduct in the past, of inaction which this Bill seeks to redress in a small way. 
In 1967 I was moved by a poem which Kath Walker wrote. Copies were distributed throughout Australia on Aboriginal Observance Day. I wish to recite the poem to the Senate because I think it puts something of our responsibilities to the Aborigines and something of the compensation that ought to be paid to these people to whom hitherto we have paid very little attention and whom this Bill is dedicated to help as much as it is dedicated to help all the other disadvantaged people. Kath Walker wrote: 
We who came late to civilisation, 
Missing a gap of centuries, 
When you came we marvelled and admired, 
But with foreboding. 
We had so little but we had happiness, 
Each day a holiday, 
For we were people before we were citizens, 
Before we were ratepayers, 
Tenants, customers, employees, parishioners. 
How could we understand 
White man's gradings, rigid and unquestioned, 
Your sacred totems of Lord and Lady, 
Highness and Holiness, Eminence, Majesty. 
We could not understand 
Your strange cult of uniformity, 
This mass obedience to clocks, time-tables. 
Puzzled, we wondered why 
The importance to you, urgent and essential, 
Of ties and gloves, shoe-polish, uniforms. 
New to us were jails and orphanages, 
Rents and taxes, banks and mortgages. 
We who had so few things, the prime things, 
We had no policemen, lawyers, middlemen, 
Brokers, financiers, millionaires. 
So they bewildered us, all the new wonders, 
Stocks and shares, real estate, 
Compound interest, sales and investments. 
Oh, we have benefited, we have been lifted 
With new knowledge, a new world opened. 
Suddenly caught up in white man ways 
Gladly and gratefully we accept, 
And this is necessity. 
But remember, white man, if life is for happiness, 
You too, surely, have much to change. 
I think it expresses the debt which we owe to those whose culture we sought to supplant and on whom we sougth to impose our civilisation. It might be said that our inaction was fostered by a lack of information or by mistaken information in respect of matters of race which had fostered intolerance and ignorance for the 200 years that we have held this continent. 
We have said that Aborigines cannot take drink because of some physical disability, that their manner of drinking is at fault. We have said that Aborigines cannot drink spirits and wines. These views are inaccurate, in my opinion, and are not based on evidence and are misleading in that they attempt to attribute to a race an effect which excessive drinking would have on any race. We do not need to look too far in this chamber to see what excessive drinking does. To say the least, it is hypocritical for white Australians to say that. Our consumption of alcoholic beverages per head per year is over 130 litres of beer, 9 litres of wine and 1 litre of spirits. We should notturn upon the Aborigines as we do and fail to realise that the same situation applies equally to the white population as it does to the Aborigines. There is abundant evidence in this country at this point of time of puny public officials in central Australia and the Northern Territory who take it upon themselves to say to an Aboriginal woman or man that they are not to get social services or child endowment because in the puny mind of those officials the Aborigines might spend the money in a way that does not suit the custom of the white man. This Bill will make those public officials culpable. It will enable those of us who have a social conscience to say that such officials do not have the right to discriminate against  Mr A  or  Mrs B  because they are Aborigines or because they are members of some migrant community. It is hypocritical and racist for us to hold the opinion that little assistance ought to be given to the Aborigines because they take every opportunity to drink themselves into stupidity with any money they receive while we support and make contributions to organisations whose prime function is to deal with alcoholics, when we see in this Parliament members who are unable to handle alcohol properly. It is to be hoped that opinions and attitudes will not stand the test of inquiry and assessment which this Bill is designed to promote. 
There still exists in our community the view that Aborigines are unable to manage their own affairs and property. This is particularly so in Queensland. Discrimination against the Aborigine in the administration of the criminal law and in the enjoyment of civil, political and technical rights still exists. There is abundant evidence of this fact. I refer to a report by  Dr Elizabeth  Eggleston to a seminar in 1974. She said that the fact that proportionately more Aborigines than whites are sentenced to imprisonment or denied bail in Australia has been amply demonstrated. Subsequently Professor Wootten as he then was, now  Mr Justice  Wootten, gave evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. He said: 
This argument seeks to perpetuate the effects of past handicaps to the advantage of those who did not suffer them. In the past 180 years Aborigines have suffered enormous handicaps in Australian society by comparison with whites, commencing with violent dispossession of their land and destruction of their social fabric, and continuing through various forms of legal, social and economic discrimination. 
It would be the height of hypocrisy for white Australians now to say to Aborigines that from here on the race must be on equal terms, without taking into account the 180 years start which white Australians have given themselves. This is particularly unfair when one considers how much power, prestige, affluence and education in the white community has been built on the exploitation of land from which the whites ousted blacks. 
This Bill will outlaw the more outrageous overt abuses. Opposition to the sanctions within the proposed law must be viewed as equivalent to opposition to the Bill. I do not know what amendments  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues will seek to make. If those amendments do not alter the substance, purpose and objectives of this Bill the Government is prepared to accept them. However, if they do seek to mutilate and destroy the substance of the Bill we will fight them and seek to defeat them. 
Under the provisions of this Bill it will be unlawful for a person, ami gst other things, to do any act involving a distinction, a restriction or a preference based on colour, race, descent or national or ethnic origin. Many of the existing practices of racial discrimination will be outlawed. No longer will it be possible for people to be refused access to public places by reason of their race, a question which was raised by one of the previous speakers on the Government side. No longer, I hope, will policemen in Sydney be able to discriminate against Aborigines who drink in hotels around the Redfern area where the paddy-wagons draw up every Friday night at about a quarter to 10. Unless the Aborigines leave to go back to their places of abode they are the ones who are arrested and charged with drunkenness whereas the whites, who are in a similar state of inebriation, are allowed to proceed by their cars and by other forms of transport to their homes. It will become possible now for those public officials to be charged with discrimination if they persist in their unfair and discriminatory practices which are synoymous with the activities of certain policemen in the Redfern area, activities have been noted by lawyers of substance in the region, activities which are continuing to this very day to the everlasting disgrace of sections of the New South Wales police force. 
No longer will people be refused employment because of race. No longer will people be able to do what has been done in several universities in this country where people have been discriminated against for positions within the university because of their race or their political point of view. No longer will people be disadvantaged financially in the acquisition of rented premises by reason of their race. The continuing practice, which is prevalent in the inner suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne, of not accepting tenants because of their racial background or accepting them on condition that they pay a sum of money in excess of that which would be asked of  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Gietzelt,  will no longer be permitted under this Bill. People who indulge in such practices will be in breach of the law. 
This legislation is long overdue and it is to the everlasting shame of the Opposition Parties that a Bill of this sort was not part of their mandate and was not part of their legislative and social responsibilities when they ratified it in 1966. They sat on the sidelines for 6 long years, years of inept government, years of inadequate government, years in which they were concerned only with sending Australian troops to fight in an unwinnable war and not with the disadvantaged people in our country. They had within their means the opportunity to bring into force legislation to which they are now prepared to give lip service. Even this year in the town of Glen Innes in New South Wales there was a demonstration by some residents because the Housing Commission of New South Wales had allocated houses to Aborigines in that town. To the credit of the New South Wales Housing Commission, it stood its ground and made those homes available to the indigenous people of this country. One would imagine, when one listens to the Opposition, that we have never had a problem associated with racial discrimination in Australia. 
I would like to refer honourable senators to what happened to the displaced professional people- the displaced doctors- who came to this country as a result of the great tragedy of World War II. I refer to an article which quotes from a book written by Professor Egon F. Kunz, Senior Research Fellow in the Demography Department of the Australian National University, entitled 'The Intruders, Refugee Doctors in Australia'. I would like to indicate to honourable senators that the previous Conservative Administration, during the 23 years that it was in office, did little or nothing to prevent these things happening to these unfortunate people. In this report attention is drawn to the problems faced by medical doctors brought to Australia between 1947 and 1954 as refugees from war-torn Europe to become labourers, cane cutters, filing clerks and suicide cases. We opened our hearts, we brought them here and then we began a policy of discrimination. This period, in my view, is the most damning indictment of the Australian Medical Association and the State and Commonwealth governments from 1948 to the mid 1960s when they permitted this very small organisation which I think represents approximately .07 per cent of the population, to be kept out of that little closed shop. That little union of prejudiced men and women practising as doctors, aided and abetted by conservative governments, denied any opportunity to these people, who were more eminent in many respects than those who were practising medicine in this country, solely because they were displaced persons from war-torn Europe, to carry out their profession. Worse still occurred because they were placed in the most menial tasks. They were placed in positions of inferiority in hospitals and were acting as orderlies when, in many cases, they had capacities and skills far beyond those of the medical superintendents. Surely members of the Opposition Parties remember the sort of racially discriminative practices that took place in the immediate postwar years. 
We have had the opportunity in the last few days to examine the forms of discrimination practised against the migrant population in our country by the insurance companies, those great citadels of capital accumulation. It is all right for honourable senators to sit back with a smirk on their faces. The fact is that 2 million people in Australia at this moment were not born in Australia, and every one of those 2 million people has been discriminated against by the insurance companies and by a variety of other public and private organisations. Personal and life insurance contracts disclose racially discriminatory clauses. A presumption of inferiority in respect of certain races is the only interpretation which can be put on the policy of some of the major insurance companies. Yet honourable senators opposite seek to defend those policies and at the same time say that they are prepared to support this important piece of legislation but they give only lip service to its principles. 
What is in the policy manual of one major Australian operating company- the Colonial  Mutual Life Assurance  Society Ltd? It will not insure persons other than of European race, persons such as Chinese, Maoris, Hindus and so on. These people are required to be dealt with under special instructions from the office with which the representative corresponds. Full information has to be obtained should any likely proposal be under consideration. The field officer is obliged to send a confidential report. What does the company say? It says that Mediterranean races are not eligible for weekly benefits. These are the benefits that apply to sickness and compensation for injury, the ordinary benefits to which the average Australian has ready access. Yet these insurance companies say that the Mediterranean races are not eligible for weekly benefits. 
What do the insurance companies seek to do? They seek to place restrictions, if not a barrier, upon the endeavours of people who have been naturalised to be treated as Australian people. I have naturalised thousands of these people in my capacity in local government. I never realised until I was elected to this place the degree of discrimination to which the previous LiberalCountry Party Government turned a blind eye for so many years. It took no steps to eradicate these forms of discrimination. It was not until the United Nations and other international organisations drew the attention of the Australian Government to these forms of discrimination that we had an opportunity to compensate these people for the forms of discrimination which have been practised. Although insurance company spokesmen have appeared on television and have sought to defend their indefensible position, today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' says that the manual of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd still today after the denials of the last 2 days on television contains that proposed policy holders must be able to speak, write and understand English without any difficulty. Good heavens above, my senatorial colleague,  Senator Mcintosh,  with his broad Scottish accent might come within the discriminatory provisions of this insurance company. The insurance company says that proposed policy holders must speak, write and understand English. According to the official figures 2 million people in this country were bom outside Australia and they have the greatest difficulty in understanding the English language. Even the updated manual of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd still proposes that people of Mediterranean races shall not have the benefit of insurance unless they can speak, write and understand the English language. 
Have the insurance companies not heard of the word 'interpreter'? Do they not know that people can interpret and that there are people within the community who can explain the provisions to those who want to take insurance policies? The 'Sydney Morning Herald', which seems to be the acme of all knowledge according to this place in recent days, states: 
The claim is that this was to ensure that they understood the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Who is fooling whom? Is it the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd or the members of the Opposition in this place? Are all business contracts to operate subject to these provisions? Does  Senator Wright,  as a lawyer, insist that everybody who goes into his office for legal advice has to understand, speak and write English without any difficulty before he gives a legal opinion. I understand he is quite adept at giving such legal opinions. I challenge the company to deny that the provision is not racist in operation and intent. This is one of the companies that have the temerity to challenge the established and declared policy as enunciated in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 2 occasions that we shall establish an Australian Government Insurance Office in which there shall be no discrimination on sex, race or religion. 
This company and other companies with similar provisions are acting racially. This Bill will outlaw these provisions. I hope that the commonsense of the Senate will prevail. The latest manual I have states: 
People bom on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, with the exception of the French, are not able to obtain sickness and accident insurance. 
That is the latest manual. This was a general principle which was breached by the Colonial Life Insurance Company and extended in the following way: Greeks and Italians who are professional people and were educated in Australia were able to be insured. Subsequently the manual goes on to say that each case will be dealt with on its merits. Yet honourable senators suggest that no need exists for this legislation. We are indebted to  Senator Coleman  for her endeavour to read into the record of this debate propaganda that has been circulated. One of the documents I have refers to the great Australian takeover and asks: 'Do you know that Australia has been taken over from within?' Another heading states: 'You conscience versus the Australian identity'. This information is circulated by the Immigration Restriction Council. 

 Senator Greenwood has the temerity to suggest that this can be put in the same category as those philosophical propositions of communism and facism, that the question of racism is part of a similar pattern and that it is in fact a philosophical position. Do honourable senators opposite say that they believe therefore that racism did not have its origins in the superior race theories of Adolf Hitler and in some of those racist groups that operate within the United States which clearly are gaining in influence within our own country. One has only to look at the propaganda from the Rights Committee that operates in the far north coast area of New South Wales and in Queensland to see that that organisation makes racism and discrimination a cornerstone of its policies. 
This material incites and fosters racism. If the problems are to be overcome by research and education programs such biased, emotive racially discriminatory material ought not to be tolerated if its effects are to foster racism. I submit that this material does foster racism. A penalty of $5,000 is payable by publishers and distributors of material intending to promote hostility of a racially discriminatory nature. The Bill seeks to foster education programs and settlement programs which may deal effectively in time with some of the minor breaches of the Act. Substantially the Bill seeks to re-educate the Australian people, to bring about the understanding that all men are brothers and that race is not a question that ought to divide us. It is a question that we all ought to recognise. We should be able to say that we are one people, one nation. The purpose of the Bill is to bring people together by outlawing alienating behaviours and practices. It is the subtle unspoken discrimination which has to be eradicated. An unspoken inhuman discrimination- which I am sure was the substance of the behaviour of the insurance companies and of many others- from time to time manifests itself in a racist comment or joke and maintains the alienation felt by the migrant and the Aboriginal from the so-called original Australians. 
One does not have to talk to many migrants or many Aborigines to appreciate how much they react to the attitude that exists amongst so many of the Australian people, to realise the alienation and confusion felt by the children of migrants in our schools. We are talking of the children of more than 2 million people who have come to Australia since the end of the war. Members of the Opposition parties in this place have praised the migration policy which was introduced by the late Arthur Calwell and which was continued by the previous Government and by the present Government. Surely it is our responsibility to do something about these people and the children of these people- to bring them up in a neighbourhood and in a community free of any form of racial prejudice. The is exemplified by a case which came to my notice. Recently a 12-year-old Jewish boy who was subjected to racial comment and abused on a football field felt so incensed, because he believed that was living in a free society and because he believed in the policies of the Australian people, that he sought the telephone number of the Australian AttorneyGeneral in order to lodge his complaints. 
There are many instances racial injustices but time will not permit me to detail them to the Senate. The legal and civil procedures and the educational program which will evolve under this legislation will assist to bring about an end to these injustices. It will make more difficult the task of those who seek to maintain a racist postion wherever they are- whether it be in government, in private enterprise, in organisations, in clubs, on the sporting fields, in schools and in our communities. It will make it easier for people to defend themselves against racial injustices. It is important to note that this legislation will not play favourites in its application. It will apply to all Australians regardless of their background. Unfortunately  Senator Sheil  is not present in the chamber to hear that. The legislation will apply to minority groups as well as to the majority of Australians. It will seek to  protect the  rights of all people in this community, whatever their social, political and ethnic background. It can be said that the legal rights of the individual will not be handicapped by the operation of this legislation. Legal aid will be provided where necessary in proceedings before a judge which will effectively remove the cost burden involved in such proceedings. 
In conclusion I will examine very briefly the position with other governments in Australia. At present in Western Australia  Sir Charles  Court is resisting the move to establish a royal commission to inquire into police brutality towards Aborigines in that State. The Queensland Government is resisting the decision of the Australian people which was given in a referendum which was carried in the 1960s. It is resisting the Australian Government's endeavour to get land rights for Aborigines. There are instances concerning organisations such as the Good Neighbour Councils. I must confess that in thinking about my association with these bodies in retrospect, I believe that because they were made up mainly of Australians who wanted to help migrants, there was a tendency to help only those who could understand our language. There was a failure to recognise that we had a greater responsibility to help those who came from other countries and who were unable to understand or comprehend our language. 
The Australian Government has taken some important initiatives in this area. For the first time in the post-war years, a prominent person who came to Australia in the immediate postwar years- I refer to Jim Bayutti- was appointed by this Government to a post on the board of Qantas Airways Ltd. The 'National Times ' referred to that appointment in this way: 
The appointment was something of a milestone in this country's relations with its migrants, who, by and large, have been viewed as not much more than useful industrial fodder, and treated in official circles with an indifference bordering on contempt. 
In the almost 30 years since the post-war immigration program began, no New Australian has been offered a Government appointment as senior as the Qantas post offered to Bayutti. 
That indicates very clearly the policy which was practised by the previous Government. Therefore, it is no wonder that the Australian Council of Churches wrote to me on 2 1 April 1 975 in the following terms: 
We write to urge your support of the Racial Discrimination Bill. 
After careful study of the Bill in 1974 by our Solicitors and by members of the Council, the General Meeting of the Australian Council of Churches, held in Canberra in February, passed the following resolution: 
It was moved and seconded That this general Meeting of the Australian Council of Churches supports the Racial Discrimination Bill, 1974, and informs the AttorneyGeneral of this, at the same time requesting him to ensure that those minority groups which suffer from dis.crirnination have substantial representation on the Community Relations Council which will be set up if the Bill is enacted. 
My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the end of the fighting in Indo-China. Has the Minister seen conflicting reports about how the member countries of the Association of South-East Asian 
Nations view the prospects for the region in the future? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether he has received any reports about what attitudes the ASEAN countries have expressed about the prospects for peace in South-East Asia? 
The Senate is properly debating legislation which was properly placed before the House of Representatives and properly passed by that House, in accordance with the normal procedures of the Parliament for bringing legislation before the 2 Houses of Parliament, for the purpose of implementing the policy upon which this Government was elected in 1972 and reelected in 1974. The Government is seeking to bring forward a comprehensive policy which involves the rationalisation of industry, of distribution and of transportation with a view to improving the society in which we live. It is clear that Opposition senators have not done their homework because not one of them has exceeded more than half the time for which he is able to speak on Wednesdays. Normally in broadcasting time one finds it almost impossible to shut them up. On this occasion honourable senators opposite have traversed every subject except the Bill itself. Not understanding the nature of the Bill they have resorted to their usual charade of nonsense and a tirade of abuse of the Government in its endeavours to implement the policies on which it was elected in 1972. 
I want to refer honourable senators, if they are capable of comprehending- sometimes I doubt very much whether they are- to what was contained in the policy speech of  Mr Whitlam  in 1972. He said: 
A Federal Labor Government will promptly restore the machinery the Constitution intended and vest it with the Commonwealth 's full constitutional powers to plan and provide modern means of communications between the States. 
The Inter-State Commission was intended to end the centralisation fostered by all the State governments through their railway systems. It should now provide not only for the co-ordination of our six mainland railway systems and our major ports in the period before the Commonwealth, like other federal governments, inevitably takes responsibility for railways and ports; it is also the ideal instrument for coordinating our major roads and airlines and pipelines. 
That policy speech was a comprehensive one which sought to change the emphasis of government in this country and to fill up the gaps which had resulted from years of neglect by the Opposition parties which now have nothing but their brutal numbers in this place with which to try to sabotage and defer the policies on which this Government was elected and which it is trying to implement. Yet we are accused by the absentee Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)-  he comes in and makes one speech a day and then we do not see him for the rest of the day- in fancy words, hysterical ranting and exaggerated language. He suggests that the Government is acting improperly in placing legislation before the Houses of the Parliament. Heavens above, it was  Senator Withers  who used the brutality of numbers in April last year- just a year ago- in order to defeat the Government's Supply Bills. He talks about the brutality of numbers in the other place, yet we have seen so much evidence of it in this place. Fortunately, due to the common sense of some of the independent senators, the Opposition has not been able to achieve its objectives. 
I find it unbelievable that the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat would take the view that this Bill is an attempt to centralise transportation in Australia. The Inter-State Commission is designed to achieve precisely the opposite of centralisation in Canberra. If he has any doubts about it, why was such a Commission provided for in the Constitution? Those who know anything about the formulators of the Constitution will appreciate that the State governments which enjoyed the sovereign powers then surrendered only those powers to the Commonwealth which were necessary for the effective functioning of the Commonwealth. They placed in the Constitution provision for the Inter-State Commission. Clearly honourable senators do not understand what the Inter-State Commission is about. I want to take honourable senators through some of the debates that took place in the national Parliament in 1912 when the Parliament of that day established an InterState Commission. I do so in order to see where the Liberals of 1975- the lost legion, the people who cannot find their way in this era- stand in their attitude with their predecessors of the 1910-1912 period. It is interesting to note the attitude of the Parliament of that day. I refer now to the person who presented the Inter-State Commission Bill,  Mr Hughes,  who, I concede, was a member of the Australian Labor Party before he ratted and joined the conservatives. He said that it was necessary to clothe the Commission with sufficient power to deal with railway rates, discrimination, rebates and all other forms of unfair treatment, as has been done in the United States of America where they have established a United States Commerce Commission. 
It is interesting to note- this is probably beyond  Senator Maunsell  's powers of comprehensionthe attitude the Liberals took during that period.  Mr Hughes  went on to say- I concede that he was a member of the Labor Party at that stage: 
In clothing the Commission with these extensive powers, we have not gone beyond that which is proper or which honourable members opposite, when in office, considered to be so. 
The interesting point is made that members of the Opposition Parties, when they were in government, actually recommended the establishment of the Inter-State Commission, but now they remain strangely silent. In fact they start to resort to hysterical statements about the Government endeavouring to centralise everything in Canberra and trying to push legislation through. I think  Senator Withers  used the words 'slip through the Parliament'. How can anything slip through the Parliament, with the numbers that exist in the House of Representatives and the numbers that exist in this place?  Mr Hughes  had this to say: 
It is to exercise all the powers that a Royal Commission exercises, and we have included in the Bill such powers as are necessary to make the investigation effective . . . The penalties are severe; they ought to be made so. It is futile to clothe a body like this Inter-State Commission with wide powers of inquiry if they are to be baffled, and their inquiries rendered nugatory, by the refusal of witnesses to answer questions. 
Of course, that is precisely what is provided for in the Bill. The Commission will have wide powers of inquiry. It will have wide powers to investigate and wide powers to make recommendations in respect of a modern transport system.  Mr Hughes  went on to say: 
. it will have wide powers both of administration and adjudication in relation to Inter-State carriers, railways, shipping, and other matters. 
I should like to draw to the attention of the Senate some statements made by  Mr Deakin  who, in case honourable senators opposite do not know, was the Leader of the Opposition Liberal Party against the Fisher Labor Government. He said: 
I have never ceased from that day to this to urge, and urge again, that in the Inter-State Commission we have a source of power, or, perhaps, to be more correct, a searchlight, by whose help we can exercise Commonwealth powers with far greater certainty of success than by any other mode open to us ... In the Inter-State Commission, however, we tj have a natural, necessary, and one can almost say, an essential adjunct of one Commonwealth Legislature. 
One could go on and quote from a number of other important speeches supporting the Government in 1 9 1 2.  Mr Deakin  went on to say, dealing with another aspect of the Bill, namely, trade and commerce: 
How often have we been perplexed to know whether a request for an increased duty was legitimate- whether the difficulties were due to the retention of out-of-date machinery, to inability to manage the business, to carelessness in handling the product, or wastefulness- or whether it related to a real national asset . . . 

 Mr Groom, another leading member of the Liberal Party in those days, said: 
In establishing an Inter-State Commission, we are completing the structure of the Federal Constitution as contemplated by its framers. The theory of our Constitution is, of course, to divide the functions of the Government into three distinct parts- the Legislature to make the laws, the Judiciary to interpret the laws, and the Executive to administer the law. 
It was realised that in addition there should be created a constitutional body, partly administrative and partly judicial. Yet we hear from Opposition senators who clearly do not understand the Bill, who clearly want to get on to the antisocialist bandwagon, who clearly want to parade the catch-cries and the bogeys, who clearly do not want to accept their legislative responsibility to understand what this Bill seeks to do; who want rather to try to parade before the Australian people the view that this Bill has some ulterior motivation. 
The structure of the Bill is necessary for the proper operation of the Federal Constitution. It is provided for in the Constitution. Why are sections 101, 102, 103 and 104 in the Constitution if it is not essential to have this piece of legislation? It is necessary for a number of reasons. The first is to create an awareness of the problems of transportation in this country. Can any reasonable person in this place say that he is satisfied with transportation in this country? I am sure that  Mr Wal  Fife in New South Wales at the present moment is not satisfied with transportation in that State, in which he has accepted the major responsibility for providing an efficient transport system. If we have an effective transportation system, why has there been the great growth in the private sector of transportation? Why did the previous Government exercise its powers and carry out a number of inquiries into transportation? Why have the recommendations in those reports never been implemented? 
This Bill seeks to create an abundance of knowledge; it seeks to create an awareness, for the Government and for the people of Australia, of what is needed in improving our modern transport system. The Bill seeks also to coordinate the requirements of a modern society. It is interesting to see from the debates of 1 9 1 2 that Liberals and Labor supporters then were talking about the complex society and the need for a modern transport system. Is not that precisely the motivation of this Government, recognising the more complex society upon which our country now exists and recognising that transportation has a new dimension in respect of the comfort and needs of the Australian people? In fact, any government that did not take steps to introduce this piece of legislation would be failing in its duty. Parliamentarians on both sides of this Senate will be better able to assess their responsibilities and to make decisions in respect of transportation when this Bill becomes law. 
Of course the power in this Bill is wide; but it is a power to assimilate, a power to accumulate, a power to investigate the problems involved in transport in this country. The Inter-State Commission has not the power to legislate. It has the power to make decisions as they relate to the discriminations and differences that exist within our State transport systems. I recall some of the speeches, particularly by some of the new senators, about the need for decentralisation, Heavens above, no one will suggest that in the field of transport we have not got a centralised transportation system within our 6 States, and it does not come to the hub of the city in each of the main States and that decentralisation is not harmed because of the way in which the transport system has grown up in Australia. Those who see the need for a massive decentralisation program surely must support the intentions behind this Bill and the reasons why it is framed in these terms. It is an attempt to introduce into the field of transportation the rationalisation on which the previous Government had recommendations before it on many occasions not only in respect of transport but in respect of industry generally. Honourable senators opposite, when in government, ran away from their responsibilities in respect of the motor car industry, the textile industry and many of the other manufacturing industries because they were not prepared to face up to the need for rationalisation. Members of the Opposition were not prepared to face up to the need to rationalise. Are they going to adopt the same negative attitude in respect of transportation? Of course they are. They have no positive thinking. They are part of the past and cannot adjust to their responsibilties in the world of the latter part of the 20th century. 
Reference is made by those who seek to raise bogies to the problems of the words 'trade' and commerce' used in the Bill. These have no particular relevance to the basic aims of the Commission. The basic aims, as indicated clearly by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  in the other place, as well as the Minister here, the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  are to improve our whole transport system. Surely it is not suggested that in terms of public investment in transport, when in a period from 1957 to 1967 public authorities have invested $5,000m in the Australian transport system, this is not the time for us to assess whether that sort of money has been spent wisely, whether it has been spent parochially and whether it has been spent properly? This is the taxpayers' money. Honourable senators opposite often speak here and in other places about protecting the rights of the taxpayers. When we on the Government side talk about forming an Australian Government Insurance Corporation honourable senators opposite talk about public funding and about the taxpayers' money. Surely they are concerned to see whether that $5,000m which has been spent in that period, and which is to be greatly augmented by this Government, has been and is being spent sensibly and not left to the parochialism that all of them know in their hearts rests within the way the States operate their transport systems. 
It is abundantly clear that transport in the modern world plays a much greater role than it did when the first Inter-State Commission was established in 1912. If members of Parliament in those days had a vision of the need to establish such a commission how more important is it for us to be far-sighted and approach this subject in today's world when a significant proportion of the total resources of our country are used in the provision of transport facilities, when transportation is estimated to cost something like 25 per cent of the gross national product and when it is said that the average person is spending something like one-seventh of his weekly wages on transportation. Surely it would be irresponsible of governments if they did not accept their obligations in these areas as provided for in the Constitution. 
We all know, of course, that our transportation systems are inefficient. Do not tell me that there is any honourable senator here who believes that the Australian transport systems are efficient. Is not transport related to costs or are honourable senators so one-sided and blinded by their class prejudices that they see only wages in the cost of production? Do they not recognise that freight is a significant part of the cost of goods? Surely we have a responsibility to evaluate what that means. We all know that an inefficient and costly transport system, a badly planned transport system, is included in the cost of production which is passed on to consumers. One thing that the Australian people must know about this Government is that it is determined to protect the interests of the consumers. 
Transportation in this country today is in a piecemeal and a run-down condition. Because the Australian Government recognises its responsibility to bring about a radical change in transportation it has offered the State Governments massive sums of money so that it can take over their transport systems and services. This Government seeks simultaneously to establish an Inter-State Commission whose role will be to co-ordinate transport policy better to serve the needs of the people. The present transportation situation requires a policy which is attuned to the vast technological changes which have taken place in our country, in our transport requirements and in our communication systems. The Commonwealth has a dominant role to play in this field. It does not seek to centralise everything in Canberra; in point of fact its role is much more attuned to the needs of active decentralisation. Surely the sort of changes which have come about in our country in the postwar years have to be recognised by honourable senators opposite. They seem to lack the ability to comprehend why the Government brings in legislation from time to time, to realise that it is a part of a whole program and that it is relevant to other pieces of legislation. 
Transport systems should be judged by their inherent advantages for the people who use them, whether they be the passengers, the manufacturers, the distributors, whether they be people using ships or aircraft. This Bill will give the Australian Government the opportunity, for example, to look at the absurdity of the current 2-airline policy, not so much at the services that the 2 companies provide for the Australian people but at the existing timetables and the way in which those companies compete for passenger traffic. This Bill will give the Commission an opportunity to determine whether it is in the best interests of the consumers, the travellers, or the taxpayers that Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines should operate parallel timetables. The Commission will have an opportunity to call witnesses, to hear evidence and then make a determination. Yet some honourable senators think that there is something ulterior in the simple aims embodied in this Bill. 
I suggest that  Senator Durack  does not know what is involved in this Bill and that he is more concerned about trying to arouse public interest in opposition to this Government than in assisting it in carrying out its administrative and legislative functions. When so much of our total resources are employed in the area of transportation it is proper for the Australian Government to bring before the Parliament this Inter-State Commission Bill and to seek the support of the Senate for it. I appreciate that honourable senators opposite will say that the Bill had a short passage in the House of Representatives. I appreciate that it will be argued that honourable senators have not had sufficient time to consider the implications of the Bill. I appreciate that they will say that the States need to examine the Bill. However, this Government was elected on a program and it has not introduced any major pieces of legislation in its  2Vi  years of office that was not a part of its comprehensive program. Having regard to the experience of the Senate, having regard to the experience of honourable senators opposite who were party to a recommendation for the establishment of an Inter-State Commission, having regard to the philosophy of their forebears of 50 or 60 years ago, this Government is entitled to expect that they will let common sense prevail, put their prejudices aside and support the passage of this Bill, which is in the interests of all Australians, whether they use the various forms of transport personally or for the movement of goods. 
Will the Minister for the Media inform the Senate of the number of wire services monitoring international news which are available to subscribers in Australia? Will the Minister indicate the countries of origin and, where relevant, the companies controlling such services and those which are actually subscribed to by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Will the Minister also indicate whether censorship can occur on the monitoring of such news to the public by such countries and companies controlling such wire services and by the companies or corporations subscribing to them? 
Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware of reports of the increased volume of cars sold last month? Is he able to confirm that this represents an increase of more than 13 000 over sales in April 1974 and a substantial increase over the previous month's sales? Does the Government note that these increased sales arise solely as a result of the reduction in taxation and restriction of imports by the Government in order to maintain full employment in the motor vehicle industry? Having regard to the multinational character of the motor car industry and its mammoth profitability, would it not follow that the companies, in the interests of sales, stability and profitability, would achieve their objectives and full employment if they reduced the prices of their cars instead of expecting the Australian taxpayer to subsidise continuously the motor car industry? 

 Senator Rae; What does the Prices Justification Tribunal say? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. In view of the fact that there are no Australian children's television programs on commercial television between 4 p.m. and 6.30 p.m., when the majority of viewers are children, would the Minister encourage the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to use its powers to initiate a public hearing on the question of Australian children's television programs? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. ls he aware of the claims made by the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Lewis,  that the big growth in the New South Wales Public Service was solely attributed to Commonwealth grants to that State? Is it true that the increased financial support to the States by the Australian Government was conditional on an increase in the State Public Service? Does not the New South Wales Premier's statement indicate an inconsistency and, as well, a contradictory position of the New South Wales Liberal Government, which is constantly asking the Australian Government for more funds and then blaming the Australian Government for the inevitable increase in the State Public Service? 
It would appear that, as far as  Senator Greenwood  is concerned, he is involved in a retreat from Moscow. He continues to live in the cold war period, and it is obvious that he and his colleagues who have spoken in this debate have no understanding of the role of the Australian Government or of the Australian Labor Party in its affiliation with Socialist International. I should like to remind honourable senators, if it is possible to get under the veneer of their sterile anti-communism, that the Socialist International is an organisation of social democratic parties whose objective is to bring about social change through constitutional means. The interesting fact in relation to Chile was that an attempt was being made to eradicate the evils of poverty and discrimination that existed in that country, and it is obvious that neither  Senator Greenwood  nor  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has any understanding of the evolutionary development in that country. 
It is worth noting that, when  Senator Wheeldon  who must be acknowledged, I think, as a person with some understanding of international events- endeavoured to answer the tirade of abuse to which we were subjected by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack saw fit to leave the chamber. This indicates the closed mind concept of the members of the Liberal Party, and demonstrates the inevitability of the criticism  Senator Steele  Hall has levelled at the members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party over the year or so he has been here, that it is futile to hope that they can accustom themselves and condition their thinking to the changed world situation. 

 President Allende was a legally elected  president  of a republic of southern America. He enjoyed the support of a wide variety of parties considered to be on the Left, including those slightly left of centre, of which the Radical Party was one.  Senator Greenwood  has no understanding of the role of the Radical Party in Chile, and that is an indication of his own sterility in international affairs. Of course, he has indicated over a whole period of time that he has no understanding of the events taking place anywhere in the world. I do not want to traverse the ground covered by  Senator Wheeldon,  but it is worth drawing to the attention of the Senate that  Mr Sule  the Leader of the Radical Party, who came to this country, was able to convince all the members of Socialist International, which is representative of the broad stratum of social democracy on the international scene, of the terrorism that exists in Chile and of the unconstitutionality of the military group currently running affairs in that country. Of course, the Australian Government has recognised the reality that that group is in control of Chile. 
That does not mean, however, that we condone their seizure of power, nor does it mean that we will not be related to those elements that seek to have a constitutional rearrangement in Chile in order that that country can proceed along the path of emancipation for its people. One person in three in Chile lives on or below the poverty line. Despite the country's great wealth, the vast majority of people live, if not on the poverty line, then very close to it. It should be within the knowledge of  Senator Greenwood,  although I seriously doubt his ability to understand, that the Chilean Parliament unanimously agreed to a proposition presented to it by the late  President  Allende that the copper mines of Chile should be nationalised. One could understand that this decision could have been taken by the Chilean Government if one understood the degree of poverty, deprivation and discrimination existing in that country. It is no accident that the Christian Democratic Party, which one could generally describe as being of a conservative nature, having its counterparts in the governments of Italy and many other parts of Europe, has now officially dissociated itself from the military junta and has called for the return of constitutional government in Chile. 
It is no accident that, similarly, the Catholic Bishops of Chile have condemned the terrorism and the violence of the present military group existing in that country and exercising political power. I have had an opportunity which, of course, is not denied to members of the Opposition, to learn something of the situation in Chile. The opportunity is denied to them only because of their subjective attitude and their inability to talk to people who come to this country trying to tell us what has happened in Chile. As an example, I can mention  Mrs Bachelet  whose husband was a general in the Chilean air force, who was regarded in Chile as being a constitutionalist, and who pledged himself to constitutional change in that country. In 1 974 he died in the prisons of Chile as a result of the tortures and violence perpetrated on him by the Chilean authorities.  His  wife until then had been nonpolitical, but she sought to come to this country to try to acquaint us of the developments taking place in that unhappy land. He was in charge of food supplies and as a result of his adherence to the constitutional practices of the Chilean Government, led by the late  President  Allende, he was put in gaol and suffered violence, torture and subsequently death. 
I make no apologies for Socialist International having held its conference in Adelaide. The representatives were subsequently given a dinner here in Parliament House, and I was one of the prime organisers of it. A dinner was also tendered at the Lodge by the Australian Prime Minister.  Mr Sule  was able to tell us of the tragedy that had taken place in his country. Let  Senator Greenwood  make no bones about it: Those who are at the moment exercising military and political power in Chile will not be holding political, economic and military power much longer. It is to the disadvantage of those of us who want to see social change brought about by constitutional means that people like  Senator Greenwood  try to suggest that the forces for social change by constitutional and democratic means are acting against the best interests of the people.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack talked about the fact that there were arms in the Presidential Palace. What is wrong with that? Is it wrong for the  President  who holds the political and constitutional power to have arms within the Presidential Palace when it was common knowledge within the country that there were members of the armed forces who were seeking to overthrow the constitutional government? Of course  Senator Greenwood  would find it hard to understand this because when he was Attorney-General he nurtured Croatian terrorists in Australia. He was the one who took very little action to try to curb Croatian terrorism and the bombings and violence which were commonplace in this country when he was Attorney-General. 
If the truth hurts,  Mr President,  I suppose I will have to be prepared, in the interests of continuing the debate, to withdraw any inference that might have hurt  Senator Greenwood.  The facts are, of course, that since the Labor Party came to office there has been no violence or bombings involving Croatian terrorists. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the fact that on 1 July, a month from Sunday, the national health scheme will come into operation. Is the Minister aware that the New South Wales Hospital Contribution Fund which incorporates the Medical Benefit Fund has circularised its members advising them not to drop their medical membership and asking them for large fees to continue their membership of that organisation? Has the Minister seen the pamphlet which is misleading to contributors, which can be described only as a rip off of money for the private insurance funds, and which ignores the fact that the Government's national health scheme will be operative from 1 July this year and that it covers the whole of the Australian population? Will the Government consider publicly advising contributors not to continue their total membership of the doctors' controlled private insurance funds? 
I thank  Senator Bunton,  who preceded me in the debate, for his rational approach to this matter.  His  contribution stands in stark contrast to the very emotional and illogical remarks presented by most of the other speakers in the debate on the Superannuation Bill 1975. I found their arguments rather miserable and lamentable as they endeavoured to justify their opposition to this piece of legislation, having regard to the attitude taken by the Opposition when it was in government and during the time in which the Labor Government has been in office. It is not a matter in relation to which a great deal of emotion should be engendered. It is a question of the Government facing up to its responsibilities in relation to its own employees, setting in train legislation which will rectify the gross abuses and injustices which exist in the present scheme, and particularly, of course, putting into a much more favourable position the low income group which is very much disadvantaged under the present scheme. Nothing, of course, has been said about the fact that the great bulk of Commonwealth Public Service employees come within that category. 
I commend the Government for taking the initiative to bring this legislation to fruition after a great deal of debate. We have been criticised by honourable senators opposite for doing so. I think it was  Senator Hall  who suggested that the 
Government was acting rather improperly in not bringing before the Houses of Parliament legislation for a national superannuation scheme under which all employees would enjoy similar benefits. 
I want to tell  Senator Hall  and the other honourable senators opposite who have taken what I believe to be a rather one-sided and maybe immature attitude to this piece of legislation that all of these factors were considered by the Government's own economic commitee. We had to have regard to the circumstances of the economy and to the question of resources to which  Senator Cotton  referred when he opened this debate earlier today. It was our considered judgment that, having regard to the conditions which obtain in all of the Western countries, now was not the time to proceed with our Bill for a national superannuation scheme and that the heavy public funding involved could not be justified in the current circumstances. 
However, we had to have regard to the criticism that was being levelled at us by the then Opposition Leader and spokesmen who were criticising us in Press statements for our failure to proceed with our Commonwealth superannuation scheme. It is interesting to hear  Senator Greenwood  repudiating the sentiments in what his then Leader,  Mr Snedden,  and other spokesmen for the Opposition Parties said at various stages over the last two or three years, and even repudiating, I suggest, the policy statement on national superannuation which  Mr Chipp  issued on 21 April 1974 which, of course, was during the period of the last election campaign. What did  Mr Chipp  say? He was the Opposition spokesman on social security; so honourable senators opposite have to accept responsibility for what he had to say. He said: 
The Liberal Party and the Country Party await the report of the Commonwealth scheme on national superannuation before any decision can be made on the complex issue. We do, however, consider any such scheme should protect the entitlement under all existing superannuation schemes to ensure that no one will be disadvantaged if it is considered such a scheme should be introduced. 
What are the facts so far as this piece of legislation is concerned? Whilst it can be said that in certain respects this is a pacesetting piece of legislation, substantially it takes into account all of the existing superannuation schemes as they relate to the State public services. For the time being, I merely draw the attention of honourable senators opposite to some of the statements that were made by their own leaders.  Mr Snedden,  on 8 March 1972, when he was the Treasurer in the McMahon Government, said: 
The Government is, of course, aware of problems with the present scheme and honourable members will recall that the introduction of non-contributory units in 1969 was designed specifically to ease the burden on older contributors to the scheme. 
Is it suggested that the legislation which is now before the Parliament does not overcome the criticism that even  Mr Snedden  accepted at that time? On 12 September 1974, two and a half years later, but before he was deposed by the coup leaders in the Senate,  Mr Snedden  said:  1 deplore the continuing procrastination and delay by the Labor Government in introducing a new Commonwealth superannuation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. I am most concerned for those public servants experiencing personal hardship because of anomalies in the present scheme. 

 Mr Snedden continued: 
The Liberal and Country Parties have long recognised the serious anomalies in the present scheme which places unnecessary burdens on a large number of public servants and their families ... I have received a large number of representations on this matter. Instances have been brought to my notice where employees are losing a very substantial portion of wage increases granted because of the amount of superannuation they are required to pay. In one case brought to my attention the superannuation payment amounts to 28.S per cent of salary after deduction of tax. Superannuation and income tax payments combined left the person 3 1 c of the $16 rise recently granted. Introduction of a new scheme must now proceed as a matter of urgency. Preparation of the necessary legislation should receive very high priority. The Liberal and Country Parties will be anxious, that the legislation receive prompt attention once it is introduced. 
What did  Senator Greenwood  have to say? Despite the fact that the Australian Government presented this scheme and laid before the Parliament almost a year ago the report from the officers who had been considering this matter, together with the actuary's statement,  Senator Greenwood  had the temerity to suggest in his contribution that we were introducing this Bill in a rushed way and not giving the Opposition Parties any opportunity properly to consider it. On the other hand we have a section of the Liberal Party attacking the Government for its failure to bring forward the legislation. I publicly admit that we had many party discussions on this piece of legislation. This piece of legislation represents a compromise in respect of the demands of those employed in the Public Service and represents the financial responsibility that we considered the Australian people should accept for the new benefits suggested. 
The Opposition having taken its decision in the party room- away from this place- and having complied with the instruction given to it by  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Garland,  who publicly said that they would use their numbers in this place to see that the legislation would not pass, has prepared 95 amendments which substantially alter the basic character of the legislation, emasculate it and reduce the benefits that ought to be forthcoming to all Commonwealth employees. The inconsistency of the Liberals is borne out on this legislation as it is so often on other pieces of legislation brought to this Parliament. Opposition members speak with 2 tongues. At one time they say that they believe that the widest benefits ought to be extended, and then when the legislation comes before the Houses of Parliament they seek by any means of procrastination, delay and humbug to suggest that the Bill should be amended substantially to the detriment of the legislation itself. 
It is never time to introduce social legislation. Every time governments endeavour to introduce legislation which seeks to expand benefits for people there are those conservatives in our community who say that it should not be done for this reason and for that reason. I can recall, for example, that when I first went to work just prior to World War II the persons at my place of employment received no holiday pay at all, except for the 3 statutory holidays of the year. There was no such thing as annual leave. When the trade unions advocated and agitated for the recognition of 7 days annual leave as an entitlement, it was said: 'We are just coming out of the depression. We cannot afford it.' Of course, in the 1950s, when we had a period of inflation the same parrot cry was uttered by the conservatives and by those who run our mediaour newspapers and so on. Now, when the Government seeks to put into legislative form that which it promised twice, in 1972 and 1974- to give its own employees benefits which most State governments have given- it is suggested that we are irresponsible and are not having regard to the public interest, not having regard to resource allocation and not having regard to the economic situation of our country. I put it to honourable senators that we cannot allow the private sector to be the pacesetter in this; that in 1922 when the Australian Government first introduced its superannuation scheme it was a pace-setting operation- there was very little superannuation in the private sector then. After all, when we talk about the private andublic sectors, are we suggesting, as someonourable senators have suggested, that the taxpayers are going to pay for this and that that is any different from the consumers paying for it as members of the community; that if the private sector introduces any benefits for its work force, whether in the form of increased annual leave, long service leave, workmen's compensation or increased superannuation benefits, that cost does not pass to the consumer? 
Of course, the consumer or the taxpayer pays for everything. To suggest otherwise is to deny the basic economics of our free enterprise society. The Australian Government does not have to be afraid of giving some sort of lead to the Australian community just because there happens to be a downturn in the private sector of the economy.  Dr Cairns  has been quite right in pointing out that it is the inherent contradiction within the free enterprise society itself that creates the downturn in the economy, not the result of Government activity or Government legislation, but in fact the same contradictions as exist in all the developed countries of the world. It is within the private sector itself that these defects exist. If we are to wait until these defects are remedied within the private sector, our Commonwealth superannuated employees will never be able to enjoy any increases in their benefits. 
Should we accept what is obviously the principle of the Opposition Parties, that a person on retirement has to suffer a dramatic decrease in his living standards? The Australian Government says no. It does not believe that there should be any reduction in living standards, and we do not regard this piece of legislation as some sort of manna from heaven, some son of treasure trove or bonanza for public servants. We regard it as their just entitlement and it seems that some members of the Opposition are at least prepared to acknowledge that. At least their leaders have said that, even though they are taking the narrower and more prejudiced view in this place while this legislation is being debated. 
We have a philosphical difference with the Opposition Parties. They do not believe that the Australian Government should lead on any subject whatsoever. They want to keep the public sector in a position subordinate to that of the private sector. We disagree with that concept. We believe there is a place for the private sector and that it must act jointly in co-operation with an expanding public sector. This legislation will seek to rectify the maladjustments in the existing scheme and will seek to encourage the private sector to extend its range of benefits. I am told that about 2 600 000 Australians are in receipt of superannuation or pension benefits. 
We are talking of less than $250m in this legislation, and most of those who will benefit from it will be those in the lower income groups. What is the scheme seeking to do? It seeks to provide on invalidity retirement full pension for our employees, a pension for widows and children on the death of the member, and the facility of purchasing full pension on normal retirement at the age of 60 years. I find it difficult to understand the Opposition approach to this, because only 6 weeks ago the Liberal Party Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  saw no difficulties in introducing legislation substantially in line with the Australian Government's legislation. An article published in the 'Age' on 11 April stated: 
Victorian public servants who want to retire after reaching 60 but before reaching 65 will go out on superannuation of nearly 67 per cent of their salary under legislation introduced in State Parliament yesterday. 
The 'Sun Pictorial ' of the same date states: 
State public servants will get 70 per cent of salary when they retire, under legislation introduced in the State Parliament yesterday. 
We see that the Liberals in that State are prepared to extend to State employees benefits similar to those that the Australian Government wants to introduce here. Why is it wrong here and right in Victoria? That is another indication of the contradictory position of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this Parliament. In the 'Mercury' on 30 May, only a few days ago, a statement was published to the effect that a move had been initiated within the Liberal Party in Tasmania to try to talk the Federal Opposition into compromising on the proposed new superannation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. The article states: 
It is being spearheaded by  Mr W.  M. Hodgman, the Liberals ' endorsed candidate for Denison, and a member of the Party's Federal policy committee. 
It was not certain last night how much support  Mr Hodgman  would get from other Tasmanian Liberals. 
What did he want to do? I quote further from the article:   . . Reduce the retiring age in the Commonwealth Public Service from 65 to 60; give pension increases from 62 &amp; per cent to 67 per cent for spouses of deceased public servants. 
Yet we are accused by  Senator Steele  Hall and others of pandering to the lobbying activities of Commonwealth public servants. Here is the endorsed Liberal candidate for the seat of Denison, which I think it may be argued is one of those seats the Opposition hopes to win back, who is prepared to identify himself publicly with this legislation. Is that not vote gathering? Is it not the right of the candidate to express that point of view, just as it is the right of Commonwealth public servants to assemble in protest outside Parliament House and express themselves in letters, telegrams, and resolutions? 
I agree entirely with what  Senator Bunton  has said. Every letter I have received, every telegram, and every representation, not only in respect of the current piece of legislation but also when the committee of which I was vicechairman was considering this legislation over the past 18 months, was proper and courteous, and in no circumstances could it be described as a piece of blackmail, vote gathering, or what have you. I was one who sought within the committee of my Party to get a scheme that met both the public interest and the views of those who wanted substantial increases in benefits. The scheme we propose now seeks to embrace new areas for Commonwealth employment. Statutory officers, employees of Australian Government statutory authorities and long serving temporary employees who have hitherto suffered disadvantages are now brought into the scheme for the first time. 
Provision is now being made for updating all pensions annually- surely in a period of inflation a very vital ingredient for improvement, and surely Opposition senators are not going to say that the Labor Government invented inflation. On this subject  Mr Snedden  is on record several times, while  Mr Lynch  is on record on a number of occasions. On 18 September last year  Mr Lynch  stated: 
In considering legislation on a new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth Public Servants the Opposition will be anxious to facilitate its passage. 
That statement was made only 8 months ago.  Mr Lynch  said: 
Until the Government produces legislation and each aspect of a new scheme is made public we cannot state a precise attitude. 
We intend to ensure that wherever possible, existing contributors and more particularly existing pensioners are not disadvantaged on transferring to a new superannuation scheme. 
Of course,  Mr Chipp  was speaking for the Opposition Parties at the last election- when obviously he was vote catching; he was seeking to get support from Commonwealth public servants- the Opposition pledged itself to support a scheme that was in advance of all existing superannuation schemes in Australia. Yet when the legislation is brought before the Parliament it is opposed vigorously in the House of Representatives, and in this place it is opposed emotionally but pathetically by members of the Opposition Parties as they attempt to justify on specious grounds the reasons the scheme should be opposed. 
There is no justification in  Senator Greenwood  's criticism of the Australian Government 's handling of this piece of legislation. Two years ago  Mr Crean  tabled a departmental committee report on the present scheme. The report showed that there were considerable problems, and  Mr Crean  stated that that scheme was not adequate and recommended that a new scheme should be devised. Almost a year later, on 12 March 1 974, he tabled in the House of Representatives a new scheme for Australian Government employees. There is absolutely no justification for the criticism that this Government has delayed the legislation. It has paid due regard to its responsibilities in relation to public interest so far as the economy is concerned and in relation to the rights of the employees. It has given the Parliament adequate time to consider that report, even though the precise form of the Bill may not have been available for the same period of time. 
It is interesting to read the reports of the debate in the other place. The Opposition said that a review of the superannuation scheme was long overdue. The Opposition had its opportunities. After all, it was in office for 23 years, and yet that tired and inept McMahon Government failed to carry out its responsibilities. I find it rather hypocritical that former Ministers of that Government have the audacity to criticise the endeavours of this Government to bring to fruition the policies which it enunciated in 1972 and 1974. 1 find it hypocritical that members of the Opposition Parties should say that the Government should work out how the private sector can afford to pay for superannuation benefits. That is not what the Government is concerned about: It is concerned about its responsibilities to its employees. How can the Government estimate the ability to pay of the private sector? Certainly, there are private sector groups that are very affluent and able to pay greater benefits to their employees. I concede that there are other groups in the private sector that are inadequate in terms of their funding and profitability and therefore cannot meet the same demands from their employees. But how can one have an average position here? Surely it is a matter for negotiation between groups of employees and employers in respect of private sector activity. It has never been the yardstick of the Labor Government that it should tune its needs and its demands to those of the private sector, and the Government does not intend to do that in this particular case. 
To that extent, the Government does not believe that any credence should be given to the substantive amendments that have been proposed by the Opposition. They destroy important fundamental principle in this Bill. That is, they reduce the retiring age from 65 to 60, a provision in this Bill which exists in the New South Wales State Public Service, is proposed to be introduced in Victoria and I understand applies also in a number of other States. How inconsistent it is for Liberal and Country Party senators and one Independent senator to suggest that the Australian Government should not follow suit. In fact, the Australian Government should be and will be the pacesetter in this sort of legislation, and every member of the national Parliament ought to be proud of the fact that this Government or any government in the national sphere, has the courage to set a standard and a lead for all other employers throughout Australia. In point of fact, this legislation is in line with practically all of the advanced benefits given by all other States in the Public Service area. Each of the new clauses in this Bill is substantially in line with the legislative effects of all other States, with the exception of New South Wales. But even on the question of reducing the retiring age from 65 to 60, New South Wales is in accord with this piece of legislation. I do not believe, therefore, that there is any justification for the Senate to support the amendments that are proposed. I do not think there is any justification for the Senate rejecting this very important and fine piece of social legislation. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I appreciate that he is not present, and therefore it will probably properly be directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of Australia's good relations with both Thailand and the United States of America, will the Minister indicate whether any official statement has been made commenting on the recent use of United States bases in Thailand over the 'Mayaguez' incident against the expressed wish of the Thai Government? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government supports the territorial sovereignty of both Cambodia and Thailand and will use all diplomatic means to express the attitude of the Australian Government to the United States against the use of force between friendly nations? 
-I bring up the report from Joint Committee on Prices on frozen and canned vegetables, and move that the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the report. 
Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen a report in yesterday's 'Daily Mirror' that claimed that payouts by the private insurance companies following cyclone Tracy will embarass the Australian Government? Can the Minister throw any light on the reported statement by the Council of 
Fire and Accident Underwriters of Australia that the Government has been 'vague, indecisive and less than honest'? Is the Minister aware that the same general insurance companies have been engaging in what can only be described as ethically doubtful practices towards their policy holders? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment. Is he aware of certain works being carried out in the Sydney Botanical Gardens and at Lady Macquarie 's Chair, the site of Sydney Town's first city dump? Is the Minister aware that archaeologists and historians believe that there are important artefacts and relics buried on the site and that the site should be regarded as part of the National Estate? Will the Minister make urgent representations to the State Government and the Sydney City Council asking them to make every endeavour to preserve any artefacts found on the site and that all works on the area be under the supervision of archaeologists and historians concerned with recording this vital part of our early history? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Have the revised procedures for handling unemployment benefits resulted in any noticeable improvement in the number of people registered as unemployed? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General seen reports by  Mr A.  P. Renouf, O.B.E., Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, that Australian Security Intelligence Organization agents have been active in many Australian embassies; if so, were those agents placed in Australian embassies by Liberal/ Country Party Governments to deal with matters not connected with Australia's security. 
What action has the Government taken to remove Australian Security Intelligence Organization agents from Australian embassies, particularly in those countries with which Australia has close and friendly relations. 
So we are on trial? 
I was present at the meeting which was arranged. At this meeting there was a general but inconclusive discussion in which questions were raised relating to the proposed rates of interest, the terms of the loan and the proposed commission. 
That was a meeting which was attended by  Mr Clyde  Cameron,  Mr Karidis, Mr Connor, Dr J.  F. Cairns,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, and I think,  Mr Anderson. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article appearing in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of today's date in which the Director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence is quoted as saying: It is symptomatic of the Government's present mood that the Henderson poverty inquiry report has been suppressed until after the Budget has been brought down'? Can the Minister advise the Senate when the report is expected to be tabled? 
Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate of the present situation in Bangladesh? In particular, does the Government intend to recognise the new regime there? 
-I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is clear that during the parliamentary recess sufficient pressure has been brought to bear upon the Opposition parties and senators because even the public statements of the Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party show that at one time he was not necessarily going to place himself in the camp of those opposed to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. It is clear that as a result of such pressure the saner voices within the Liberal Party have been silenced and now ally themselves with the hysterical propaganda and activities of those who have organised themselves since the Government first introduced this legislation earlier this year. Of course, that ranting has been evident in the discussion within this place over the last few days and it is to the detriment of honourable senators opposite that they speak in the vein in which they do, ignoring what has been the experience of public sector activity with which their governments both in the national and in the State arenas have been associated in the past. 
It is interesting, for example, to refer to this comment made by  Senator Cotton  in his contribution to this debate: 
There is the case for a need for an insurance office to be operated by the Australian Government in the present commercial insurance scene. 
It is true that  Senator Cotton  went on to qualify that but it ought to be drawn to the attention of the Senate that the areas of insurance in which he believed the public sector should be involved were those that were the least profitable. He wanted no interference with the commercially profitable areas of insurance. In other words he wanted the public sector to be saddled with the uneconomic and public interest areas of insurance. That is precisely the experience which has resulted in the private insurance companies withdrawing, one by one, from the third party insurance field leaving it substantially either to State instrumentalities or to motorist organisations. As I understand it, that is the general experience in New South Wales and in Victoria and possibly the same thing could be said about other States as well. 
Before speaking on the Bill itself I want to refer to some of the comments that have been made by those honourable senators who have not dealt with the substance of the Bill but who have, in an emotional way, endeavoured to create the impression that this Government has a policy of destroying the insurance companies, a policy of unfair competition, and a policy of introducing socialism by stealth. I can well remember when I was in local government and was associated with a majority view in the area I represented, we wanted to place some restraints upon the multiplication of service station sites. I remember that a member of the Liberal Party who had been a candidate in the previous election described the attempt to rationalise the siting of service stations as  Bolshevism  by stealth. That is the philosophy behind the people who have indicated their opposition to this Bill in this chamber. Of course, we have lived to see the day when the service station proprietors have been forced out of the industry because the petrol companies are now closing service stations. 
Let us consider what  Senator Carrick,  in his usual ranting manner, had to say. He said: 
This is surely the most paternalistic, the most totalitarian and most personally corrupting doctrine that can be. 
He was referring to the policies enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He said also:  lt would be the worst of all worlds if this Government got its hands on insurance funds for socialist purposes . . . What is happening now is that this Government, having destroyed the people's savings in the banks and having destroyed their wages, is now saying that it is going to get its clammy hands upon the investments in the insurance industry. 
That is a palpable lie. The facts are that the people's savings in the savings banks at this point in Australia's economic history are at an all time high. The Australian Government has very limited opportunity to influence the areas in which those funds can be invested. They are substantially in the hands of the banking companies. Then  Senator Carrick  said that we are going to use those funds for socialist purposes. If  Senator Carrick  and his colleagues believe that in using what funds we can get for the extension of our social welfare program- whether it be for the Medibank scheme; whether it be for better pensions for ex-servicemen; whether it be for more money for the States for public housing- is using funds for socialist purposes, then we readily admit our guilt. 
The elected Government of the Australian people is not going to be answerable to the vested interests, the minority groups and the institutions which, over the last 6 months, have waged an infamous propaganda campaign. We are standing on the mandate which was given to us by the electors in 1972 and 1974. Let me refer to what the Prime Minister said in his policy speech in April 1974 when referring to the program for which we were seeking the support of the Australian people.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
Accordingly, the Government will set up an Australian Government Insurance Office which will compete actively in all forms of insurance and which, in particular, will provide the widest possible cover for homes at the lowest possible premiums. 
The claims that have been made by persons, companies and institutions, all of which are private and which seek to discredit the Government's program and policy, are ludicrous, because we merely want to set up an independent Government insurance corporation to act in competition with the great variety of insurance companies- there are something like 300 of them- which operate in this country. We are indebted to  Senator Wriedt  for referring to the fact that even the constitution and platform of the Liberal Party subscribe to that theory. 
Of course, nothing is said by Opposition senators about the percentage of foreign ownership of our private financial institutions. They accept that situation as a normal fact of life. They do not draw to the attention of the Australian people the fact that our financial institutions make us a mere colony of the United States of America and England, that the views represented by those interests are not always in the best interests of Australia, and that in some instances they have reached the point of arrogance as they no longer strive to provide the fullest of covers demanded by this Government and demanded by an aware public with a developed social conscience. I need only refer to the speech  Senator Coleman  made yesterday to point out how insurance companies have discriminated against half of our population. The only reaction we could get out of  Senator Jessop  when  Senator Coleman  drew attention to the deficiencies within the private sector insurance field was some scorn and disregard for the interests of those people who, as I have said, form half of the population of Australia. 
Notwithstanding the involvement of State governments in public ownership- all State governments have government insurance offices- the statistics on foreign ownership speak for themselves. In the life insurance sphere, for example, the aggregate foreign ownership is 36.8 per cent. The percentage of ownership and control in the general insurance sphere is even greater; foreign ownership stands at 45.7 per cent. I am citing the official statistics put out by our own Australian Bureau of Statistics should any honourable senator have some doubts about their veracity. How much worse this position would be if the State governments, both Liberal and Labor, had not in years past embarked upon State insurance office activity? Notwithstanding the vicious campaign and, I say, the unAustralian compaign- I say that having regard to the overseas ownership of the insurance companieswe claim that the interests of the policy holders and the interests of this country are not being properly represented by that campaign. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has endeavoured on many occasions to have dialogue with the private insurance companies so as to better inform them of the Government's intention- a very modest attempt to enter into competition, on an independent basis with limited capital, in the insurance field. The vicious campaign which has been waged by using the funds of the policy holders, I think, reflects the contempt with which the hierarchy in the insurance field operates in this country. This is an attempt to confuse the Australian people. It is an insult to the intelligence of the Australian public. 
Opposition senators are mistaken if they believe that they are on a winner on this particular issue. They may well have the numbers in this chamber to defeat the legislation but if they believe that the Australian people support their activities, that the Australian people are happy with private insurance activities in this country, they are out of touch with reality. It is not hard to understand why they would make that error of judgment. Look at the error of judgment they made in March 1974 when they misjudged the political climate in this country, when they denied supply to the Australian Government which had received a mandate in 1972, when they went to the people and presented their program as the Government did. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Agriculture been drawn to comments in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  by  Mr Mason,  the New South Wales Minister for Lands and Forests, claiming that millions of dollars were being wasted by the Australian Government in duplicating New South Wales fishing research? Is it a fact, as claimed by  Mr Mason,  that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization is chartering a new $700,000 trawler to conduct deep sea research similar to that already being conducted by New South Wales? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I refer to the Minister's statement that from 8 June to 24 August 190-odd full page advertisements appeared in Australian newspapers campaigning against the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, the costs of which exceed approximately $3m? Is the Minister aware that these advertisements have continued up to 25 August, that is, 2 days ago, even after the Senate had rejected the legislation, and that the advertisements have appeared in at least the Sydney  Sun  and the Sydney  Daily Mirror!  Is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate whether the costs of such advertising can be claimed as a tax deduction by the insurance companies? Will he raise the matter of such deductions with the Commissioner for Taxation to ensure that Australian taxpayers are not obliged to subsidise such extravagant advertisements? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I think it might also have some bearing on his responsibility as Minister representing the Minister for the Media. In view of the rising unemployment in the Australian publishing industry and the loss and /or transfer of Australian owned publishing lists to overseas interests or countries, will the Minister indicate the assistance which has been given and which is proposed to be given to Australian owned publishing companies? 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen reports that some unscrupulous doctors are swamping Medibank with unreal, and unusual and abnormal claims designed to create additional funds for individual doctors? Would not such practices come within the category of fraudulent claims? Is the Minister also aware that many doctors who refuse to bulk bill are now charging patients $1 a month to handle patients' accounts, thus subverting the Government's free medical scheme? Is the Minister able to say what steps the Australian Medical Association has taken to eradicate these evils, and what can the Medibank organisation or the Government do to minimise such abuses of this most important piece of social legislation? 
-The Senate is debating the 1975-76 Budget. In July, August and September of each year we are treated to a public discussion, of sorts, in the 2 Houses of Parliament. Members of Parliament engage in their annual gabfest as they put forward their theories of how this country's economy should operate. Paper economists- the lightweights within our communityhave endeavoured to suggest, and have found some favour in the Opposition parties, that the Budget itself is a panacea so far as economic management is concerned. They have tried to create the impression that the Budget is the economic instrument which will determine economic activity within a given country. But we all know, or should know, that it is only one of the methods by which influences can be exerted within the economy. It is wrong to suggest that the Budget can have any great effect on the way in which the economy operates. Nevertheless, the Budget has certain objectives. Its strategy is determined by the Government. Whichever government is in power, it seeks to exert some influence upon the economic affairs of the country. 
I think we can describe this Budget as a balanced Budget, a holding Budget, even a conservative Budget or a defensive Budget, because it seeks to maintain the gains which have been made in the years from 1972 to 1975 and which will improve materially the way of life of the people of Australia, if they have not already done so.  (Quorum formed).  This is a compromise Budget. I think it could be best described as a wheeler-dealer Budget.  Sir Frederick  Wheeler obviously played some part in developing the strategy of this Budget. In dealing with the goodies of this country the Budget continues the policies followed since December 1972. Therefore, it ought to be supported by the Parliament and by the Australian people. The Budget has certain objectives aimed at continuing the social program of the Labor Government. Of course, the most significant one is the Medibank proposals that are incorporated in the costing of the Budget. The Budget continues the policy that was a feature of the 1972 and 1974 elections, namely the transfer of funds and resources to the public sector. As suggested in the Budget Papers, the Government accepts its responsibilities in terms of the transference of funds from the public sector to the private sector because it is in that area that the great deficiencies have occurred in postwar years. 
This Government is concerned about where we live and how we live. A number of the major programs which now have been established will make services which are essential to urban living more accessible to people in our cities and towns. This will create better urban surroundings. It is in this area that a great amount of additional finance is being made available. In short, the Government is pursuing its urban and regional development objectives through a blending of new initiatives with a conscious effort to do the customary things, the things which were a characteristic of the previous Government, so much better. There is no doubt that with the effluxion of time a great deal of improvement will result in the urban infrastructure. It must never be forgotten by those who support the amendment before the Senate that the private sector, which makes its own decisions in economic management and develops its own strategy and its own activity, is itself responsible for its downturn of activity. It is not the responsibility of this Government, as I hope I will be able to prove in the second portion of my contribution to this debate. 
Every country, particularly those in the Western world, is experiencing the son of economic downturn that is a characteristic of this country. Every country has large Budget deficits, unemployment, inflation, a drop in business confidence and a drop in productivity. Yet to listen to Opposition speakers one would think that in this universe Australia is something of an exception; that it is something different; and that these things do not happen anywhere else. What has been said by Opposition speakers indicates their negative attitude not only to the Budget but also to economic planning in this country. For example, recently the members of the economic thinktank of the Liberal Party met, but after several days of discussions they broke up without developing any alternative strategy or policies. 
Of course, we are told that the whole of the problem facing this country arises because of the policies pursued by this Government since it came to office in 1972. We are told, for example, in the amendment we are asked to support, that the Budget will fail because it does not restrain government spending. I find it very difficult to understand the logic in the point of view of the Opposition. In 1972-73, the period covered by the last Budget developed by the Opposition Parties after having had 23 years of uninterrupted control of the Parliament- it is interesting to note that they were able to enjoy a substantial majority in the Senate in that period of time and did not suffer the obstructionism which has been a feature of the Whitiam Government's term from 1972 to 1975-$2,500m was allowed for payments to the States. That was something like 26 per cent of the Australian Government's expenditure. It is noteworthy that in this Budget payments to the States have risen and now represent 3 1 per cent of Budget expenditure. In money terms what is proposed in this Budget represents an increase of 170 per cent on the moneys allocated in the 1972-73 Budget. 
We are led by Opposition spokesmen to believe that all we have to do is to cut back government spending and the economy will be back into high speed gear. I find this difficult to understand after reading what the Liberal or Country Party Premiers said when asking for more money during the period in which the Budget was being prepared.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, said that if the States did not get the money unemployment would worsen and the economy would fall to pieces. He said that unless Queensland got what it was seeking the Queensland Government would have to lay off thousands of employees.  Mr Hamer  said that unemployment would increase if the States were not given the funds they needed.  Mr Lewis  expressed similar sentiments. When the Liberal Premiers met on their own they were reported as having told the Federal Government that they would be able to create work for an extra 10 000 people if they were given an extra $240m. 
We are told that if the Australian Government spends public funds it will worsen the economic position; yet the State Premiers took the view that unless they got those funds there would be a downturn in the economy. I find it contradictory and hypocritical that members of the Opposition parties should place so much stress on public spending in their contributions to the Budget debate in this place and in the other place. This is particularly so when it is realised that government expenditure generally by the 3 arms of government in Australia represents only onequarter of the total expenditure. So that for every government dollar spent at least 3 nongovernment dollars are spent. Therefore it is strange reasoning on behalf of Opposition senators to suggest that within that one-quarter of total expenditure the answer to the problems of the economy can be found, particularly when a comparison of the figures show that of that onequarter of total expenditure only half is Commonwealth Government spending; the other half is expended by the State, semi-government and local government authorities. So I find it difficult to understand the reasoning of the Opposition. 
Of course, one does not have to do more than challenge Opposition senators to nominate the areas in which they claim that Australian Government spending should be cut back. Should it be cut back in the national welfare field? Are they prepared to nominate which sections of our welfare programs should be cut back. Are we to cut back our community health program for which a great amount of money has been made available? Are we to cut back expenditure on the Australian Government rehabilitation service, for which the funds allocated have risen by some 60 per cent? Are we to cut back expenditure under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act or for assistance for the aged, in relation to which the comparative figures for 1972 to 1975-76 are $27m under a Liberal Government and $87m under a Labor Government? Or are we to cut back the $74m which we have allocated to services for children, and particularly for child care centres, voluntary day centres and the like. Of course, I could go through all of the social welfare programs of this Government and the same picture would unfold. 
Are Opposition senators suggesting that pensions paid to ex-servicemen and women, which have risen in the comparative 3 year period by some 54 per cent, or the war widows pension, which has risen by some 80 per cent, or the single rate age and invalid pension, which has risen by 93 per cent, or the married couples pension, which has risen by 87 per cent? All of these increases took place in a period when the consumer price index rose by only 44.7 per cent. Yet what is  Mr Fraser  's attitude? In a speech which he made on the Budget on 28 August 1973, which is 2 years ago, he said: 
The Budget is seen as an instrument of social and political reform. This particular Budget effects a substantial transfer of payment from the productive sector of the Australian economy to welfare. Many people will welcome the efforts to relieve real hardships. The extent of the Government's efforts in this area can be measured by the fact that $ 1 ,396m of the $ 1,938m additional expenditure, or 72 per cent, goes to the welfare area- social security and educational expenditure. 
If we examine all of the areas of public housing, urban affairs, public transport, culture and recreation, industries assistance and so on, we will find that the Australian Government has been associated with the most dramatic increases in public funding ever in the history of Australia. Of course,  Mr Fraser  is notorious for his failure to be consistent in his attitude. In a speech which he made on 9 April 1972 to a Liberal Speakers' Group Conference in the Melbourne Town House he had this to say: 
There have been times in quite recent years when the Commonwealth Government has come under quite extreme pressure for greater social service payments. I often wonder how much of that pressure would have existed if people had realised that welfare payments in total had increased by more than $700m over the last 5 years. It is now at a record $2,000m. 
The Budget reveals that it is now up to $4,700m. I wish to quote the words of  Mr Fraser,  who is the main Opposition spokesman in the Parliament, in his reply to the Budget Speech because I do not think the contribution made by his counterpart in this place had any particular relevance to the debate at all. What did  Mr Fraser  say in his speech which he delivered on 26 August 1 975 in the other place? He said: 
The principal source of this crisis has been the immense growth in Government spending since 1972. Government spending has risen by $9,405m in 2 years- an 80 per cent increase. 
He went on to refer to the International Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Treasury officials in giving reasons why this Government should be condemned for its budgetary program this year. He also said that this Government was influenced a great deal by the Treasury advisers in drawing up this Budget. It does not meet all of my wishes but nevertheless it represents a consensus view within the Australian Government. I know the extent to which the Treasury officials influenced the compilation of this Budget. I remember what both  Mr Snedden  and  Mr McMahon  had to say about the Treasury officials when they brought in their Budgets in the years 1971 and 1972. I think perhaps it could be described as bum advice because in those days those Treasurers blamed the Treasury advisers for the loss of public support which resulted from the Budget in that period. 

 Mr Fraser went on to say that Government spending has been funded by higher and higher taxes. He ignores the fact that in the whole of the 23 years in which the Liberal and Country parties were running this country the basic tax structure scales remained the same. This is the first time, in the third year of a government which was sent to the people only half-way through its term of office by the Senate, that we have been able to bring in a much more equitable tax scale.  Mr Fraser  went on to say: 
The interests of Australia would not be served if the Opposition simply took a negative and destructive approach to whatever Budget the Government presented. 
He could have fooled me, having heard what honourable senators opposite have had to say in this place, because they have taken a destructive and negative attitude towards this Budget. They have not faced up to their responsibilities and they have not endeavoured to understand the strategy that is before the Australian Government and before the Australian people.  Mr Fraser  went on to say: 
There is no choice between inflation and unemployment. 
We deny that. We want to cure inflation and we want to eliminate unemployment, and the Government is going about doing just that.  Mr Fraser  also said that government restraint, tax relief and business incentives are required. It is interesting to note that when the Opposition talks about cutting back expenditure it refuses to nominate the areas; it says that it is not its responsibility as an Opposition to nominate the areas in which cutbacks in public spending should take place.  Mr Fraser  said that he would reintroduce a 40 per cent investment allowance. He said that specific incentives are clearly demanded for the primary industry sector, that the superphosphate bounty should be reintroduced, and that beef producers should be eligible for welfare payments. But the Leader of the Opposition parties cannot even bring forward a coherent economic policy. Why is that so? It is because of his basic philosophical position. An article published in the  National Times  earlier this year about the new leader of the Liberal Party, Malcolm Fraser, said that he was not an exserviceman but of all the leaders he is the richest. The article goes on to say: 
Nonetheless, his philosophy is that post-war Australians are too comfortable, too affluent, and that without stern leadership they may be unable to meet the challenge of an increasingly hostile world. 
Further on the article states: 
He told his Deakin lecture audience that 'we need a rugged society, but our new generations have seen only affluence. 
If a man has not known adversity, if in his lifetime his country has not been subject to attack it is harder for him to understand that there are some things for which we must always struggle! 
That Malcolm Fraser who has known neither poverty, nor war or even the mundane nuisance of city living, and whose only adversities have been of thwarted ambition, could make these remarks says something for his facility with pure reasoning. 
The article continues: 
As he remarked to a Liberal conference, 'If we are to live in an age where people come to expect rights without obligations, without duty, then we live in an age in which greatness will be denied our country'. 
Yet time and time again Opposition senators and members of the other House of Parliament enjoin the Government to make funds available in ever greater quantities to improve the quality of life of our people. That is all I will have time to say about the public sector. 
I want now to direct my attention to the private sector because the Opposition, the newspaper nabobs and other people throughout Australia are criticising this Government by suggesting that it is the fault of this Government that there is a downturn in the private sector. In 1962  Sir Robert  Menzies caused to be elected a committee, which comprised a number of the most eminent men in industry, commerce and public service in this country, and which was subsequently known as the Vernon Committee. That Committee presented reports to the Parliament in 1965. The Committee showed that the downturn began in the 1950s and continued in the 1960s and the 1970s although the report at that stage dealt only with the 1950s and the 1960s. For example, it showed that the accumulated gross fixed capital expenditure of the rural sector fell from $ 18.4m in 1953-54 to $ 15.3m in 1959-60. In the mining industry it fell from $2.2m to $ 1 .9m. In manufacturing industry it fell from $48.5m to $45.3m 
It is interesting to read something of what has been said by those associated with the Australian Industries Development Association which is the big business association in this country. It is made up of the 30 largest manufacturing groups in our country- the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, ICI Australia Ltd, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and others. The Australian Industries Development Association produced a document in December 1974 which confirmed what  Sir John  Vernon's Committee said in the 1960s, which was that in terms of constant value there had been a substantial decline in fixed capital investment in manufacturing industry and that the downturn began in the 1950s and continued in the 1960s. For example, in 1966-67 the figure was $830. lm. It rose in 1970-71 to $943.2m. Then it began to fall again to the point at which in the last year of the Liberal-Country Party Government it was $770.8m, and it climbed in the first year of the Labor Government to $805.8m. 
It is interesting to read what the Jackson Committee has to say. That Committee has been appointed by this Government to concern itself with the private sector. The Menzies Administration failed to act on the report from  Sir John  Vernon which had as its aim productivity and economic growth, full employment and capital investment. It received the report and did absolutely nothing about it. It is to the credit of this Government that the Jackson Committee was appointed this year to examine the problems associated with manufacturing industry and the private sector generally. Honourable senators ought to know that  Mr Jackson  is a very important man in our economic life. He is the  Chairman  of Directors of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and is a director of companies associated with mining in the Northern Territory. He said: 
Companies in manufacturing are mostly reporting sliding profits and high stocks. . . . While the trend for profits from manufacturing to fall has been accelerating lately, it is not new. It has been going on slowly since about 1964. Ten years ago, net profit of listed manufacturing companies averaged 10 per cent on shareholders' funds. By 1973 it had fallen to about  9Yi . . .  the problems are more deepseated and will not go away when business picks up. indeed some of them may then get worse . . . real profits from manufacturing did not increase from 1 968 to 1 973. 
So in the period in which Opposition senators had the responsibility of economic management in this country the decline in the private sector was already apparent.  Mr Jackson  continued: 
Investment in real terms has stagnated since 1964. ... It is obvious enough that at present exchange rates many of our industries are not internationally competitive. In general, Australian tariffs are high; but not high enough to shelter some important industries from serious trouble. 
He then points out that State departments of industrial development, universities and Australian academics generally have neglected manufacturing industry in their understanding of the trends that are taking place within our country. He points out that manufacturing is a very important segment of our private sector economy and that it employs more than one-quarter of all our people. 
It is interesting to look at the figures. In 1969 as many as 28 per cent of our work force was employed in manufacturing industry; in 1973, according to  Mr Jackson,  that had declined to one-quarter of our people. He goes on to point out that there are a whole number of problems associated with the private sector. He said: 
The human situation in Australian factories is not well enough understood . . . Notwithstanding unemployment - 
He is talking of the current period-  many manufacturing industries report high labour turnover and absenteeism. Behind the figures is alienation in the work force and frustration in management. 
He points out the need for the private sector to take up its own challenge and to become associated with the changing attitudes of the consumers and the changing attitude of the economy, technology and so on. I should like to refer honourable senators to what  Mr Rod  Carnegie said in an article headed 'Wake up, private enterprise' which was published in the  Australian  on 22 August 1975. He is the  chairman  of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. He points out that those associated with the private sector must realise that there are a lot of stake-holders involved, not just the shareholders, and that there is a crisis in capital accumulation. He suggests that some of the problems associated involve those manipulative features, the stock exchanges throughout Australia. He points out, as  Mr Jackson  did, that in the industrial scene there are all sorts of apathy, alienation, frustration, unrest, absenteeism, high turnover and so on. 
I wish now to refer to one of a great number of world economists who are concerned with the current problems in the Western world. A French economist, Jacques Attali, writing in  Le Monde  in January of this year forecasts that European inflation would rise in excess of 10 per cent this year. He said that higher unemployment, a low growth rate, economic inequalities exaggerated by inflation and extremely rapid industrial concentration would be a feature of Europe. He considers that at the root of the current crisis are 2 basic mechanisms, the reduced economic efficiency of capital and the reduced social efficiency of growth. He cited studies which report that the real productivity of capital has halved over the last decade and thus more and more capital is needed to create the same unit of value added. The reasons for this, he believes, are inadequate social and industrial structures, the limited scope of some kinds of technological progress, execessive specialisation of labour with resulting inequalities and the giant corporations. I urge the Senate to consider the problems facing the private sector and not just to believe that in this Budget all the answers to our economic problems can be found. 
I  present the following petition from 8 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decisions of the Australian Government- 
To depart from its 1972 election promise that basic pensions would be related to average weekly earnings and never be allowed to fall below 25 per cent thereof, and 
To increase postage costs and the costs of installation and annual rental of telephones, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decisions (a) and (b), and to determine 
That pensions be related to average earnings as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1 972 policy speech, and 
That no charge be made for installation or rental on the telephones of those pensioners entitled to a P.M.S. card. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government: Is the Minister aware that the multinational pharmaceutical company, Roche Products of Basie, Switzerland, supplies valium to its wholly owned Australian subsidiary at $4,900 per kilogram even though the cost of production is only $ 1 70 per kilogram? Is this not an exploitation of our taxing system in that a higher import price affects the profitability of an Australian company, the Australian consumer and the national health scheme to which the company is a major supplier? Will the Minister cause an investigation of this nefarious practice to be launched with a view to eradicating this rip-off of the Australian people? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to new reports which claim that the people of East Timor strongly favour a merger with Indonesia. I ask: Does the Minister remember that a party of 6 Government supporters visited Portuguese East Timor in March this year and that their experience has confirmed the reports of reputable journalists that the overwhelming sentiment in the former Portuguese colony is for selfdetermination and against merging with Indonesia. Therefore cannot the current reports emanating from Indonesian 'official sources' be regarded as nothing more than propaganda and intimidatory? Will the Minister assure the Senate that Australia will support any Portuguese initiative and request which would assist in the decolonisation of East Timor based on the principle of self-determination and free from Indonesian intervention? 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
We respectfully call on the Senate to pass the Australian Government Insurance Bill for many reasons, these being constant attempts by various means, of private insurance companies not to honour or to try to escape their contracted responsibilities. Not the least of failures of private insurance companies is the constant tragic lack of performance by such companies during natural disasters such as the Brisbane floods, the Darwin cyclone etc., this later alone establishes an urgent need for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the statement made by the  President  of Mexico and has he noted the action taken by 6 countries associated with the European Economic Community condemning the recent execution of 5 political dissidents by the repressive Franco Spanish Government? I ask: What diplomatic steps have been taken or are proposed to be taken by the Australian Government to condemn such unwarranted and brutal action? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the occupation yesterday of the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra by a group of demonstrators protesting against alleged clashes between Indonesian and Fretilin forces inside Portuguese Timor? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the Government has any information on the repeated clashes in the border areas? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, refers to reports that Indonesian forces have been involved in an attack on the town of 
Batugade in Portuguese Timor. Can the Minister inform the Senate of any details he might have concerning these reports and also state the Government's attitude towards the use of armed force by parties involved in the present situation in that country? Will the Minister restate Australia's belief in the principle of self determination for the indigenous people of Portuguese Timor? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will fairly compete with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Police and Customs: Is it a fact that the volume of passengers travelling to and from Australia by international aircraft continues to increase? Is it a fact also that we hear reports of upward trends in drug smuggling generally and particular instances of drug syndicates utilising air couriers to import drugs? Does the Minister accept that the staff of the Department of Police and Customs must be on the horns of a dilemma? On the one hand, they have to increase the rate of processing passengers and on the other hand they have to exercise more stringent controls in order to stop illicit drug importations. If this is the case, what steps has the Department taken to overcome the problem? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration whom I refer to reports alleging that the employment of a New South Wales teacher,  Mr Michael  Clohessy, was terminated because of his public statement that he is a homosexual. Will the Minister cause investigation of this incident which appears to be in breach of section 1b of the International Labor Organisation Convention to which Australia is a signatory and which renounces all forms of discrimination in employment based,  inter alia,  on race, sex, religion and politics? Will the Minister ensure that the national and State committees on discrimination are empowered to act in such cases of totally reprehensible and unacceptable discrimination based on the sexuality of the person? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of wire services monitoring international news which is available to subscribers in Australia. 
Would the Minister indicate the countries of origin, and where relevant, the companies controlling such services and those which are actually subscribed to by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Can censorship occur on the monitoring of such news to the public by such countries or companies controlling the wire services and by the companies or co-operatives subscribing to them. 
The Senate has been treated to a pantomime from the Opposition in relation to this very important Loan Bill which has been before the Senate for some 7 weeks. Seven weeks ago the Government introduced a machinery Bill after having it passed through the House of Representatives for a simple process of financing its 1975-76 Budget. It happened that at that time the Senate was debating the Budget. Of course, we had a record number of speakers in the debate on that occasion. It is clear that even in respect to this Bill which is of very small significance to the Budget we are regaled with similar types of speeches and examination of the Government's Budget strategy for 1975-76. 
Of course, what honourable senators opposite have endeavoured to do since the Whitlam Government came to office in December 1972 has been to subject this Government to a guerrilla war, to a search and destroy concept in an endeavour to try to undermine public confidence and to bring about the defeat of the Government. In some circumstances it may have been regarded as a legitimate ploy. It was not long after the election of this Government that honourable senators opposite set about deliberately to create the conditions which led to the double dissolution in early 1974. When we examine the activities of honourable senators opposite in the intervening period of time we can understand why it is that this Government has been forced onto the defensive as it has sought to bring about the essential reallocation of resources and to bring about a much more egalitarian society. The contributions by honourable senators opposite, including those who have spoken in the last few days, indicate that facts and logic have no place in their contributions. Those contributions are no longer relevant to the debate and no longer relevant to the issues before the Senate. In point of fact, I think that we can say that honourable senators opposite can be regarded as presenting a pathetic case and putting the Opposition in somewhat of a laughing stock category. 
It could be said of Australia, in terms of its financial stability and in terms particularly of its loan position and its credibility in terms of financial standing, that probably no country in the western world has a more stable loan position. Yet, if one were to listen to the contributions of honourable senators opposite, one would imagine that this country was bankrupt, that people were starving, that unemployment was rampant and that there was no way in which the Government could carry on its legitimate activities. Of course, if we listen to the speakers from the Opposition side it is clear that they did not even understand the basic essentials of Budget estimates. They are only estimates. They are not part of a dogmatic document which has to be accounted for in terms of income or expenditure without variation. They are determined and drawn up on a whole number of imponderables and varieties in activities, whether they be on the income side or the expenditure side. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has, in accordance with the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-73, the very authority to raise these sorts of funds. The Treasurer was quite correct in introducing the Bill in the other place and the speakers on the Government side in this place, subsequent to its being introduced here, were quite right in describing this piece of legislation as a machinery measure for a very simple expedient of financing defence expenditure as provided for in the 1975-76 Budget. Opposition speakers have followed the path traversed by  Senator Cotton.  The debate grew more hysterical when the position was expanded by  Senator Carrick  and of course, grew more and more emotional as it was expanded by  Senator Baume  last evening and again today. The Budget documents show that two-thirds of the funds for defence expenditure are provided for in this Bill. Loans will be raised in accordance with this Bill once it becomes law. 
Of course, this is provided for in table 9 of Budget document No. 4. It clearly shows the amount that is to be raised. It clearly shows the intent of the Government and it clearly shows that it is a logical and proper procedural motion which is now before the Senate. It shows that the estimated expenditure normally charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund will exceed substantially the estimated receipts. In this consideration it is proper that loan funds shall be raised. Of course, honourable senators opposite have suggested that there is something wrong and that the Government should go to the Australian people to raise finance for the purpose of its Budget estimates. They have criticised the Government for its endeavours to raise funds overseas to carry out its legitimate public works activities and responsibilities. Honourable senators opposite- in particular  Senator Baume-  are now criticising the fact that we shall raise this one from within the Australian community.  Senator Baume  has suggested that this is some departure from the norm and that this is something to be regretted. He has, of course, ignored the fact that those in either the private sector or the public sector who invest in this loan have the responsibility of making the decision for themselves. They are under no obligation. They are acting under no force or coercion. They are able to make that decision based upon their estimation of the credibility of the loan or the government of the day. 
The prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is only part of the overall deficit provided for in the 1 975-76 Budget, must be met in some way other than deficit budgeting. Of course, the Government has correctly sought the confidence of the Australian investing community in suggesting that it should provide certain sums that are set out in Table 9 of the Budget Papers. It is the usual practice. Past governments, Labor and Liberal-Country Party, have resorted to this practice. The answers supplied to the questions asked by  Senator Cotton  in this place several weeks ago show that in 1968, 1970 and 1971 Liberal-Country Party governments followed this procedure precisely . in  respect to their Budget deficits or their Budget responsibility in those- years.- Of course, theexpenditure would normally" be met out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund,. If in fact, as a result of some fall off in the income side froth, ; say, a decision by large sections of the Australian community not to buy liquor or cigarettes, there were a fall off somewhere "within those Budget Estimates the Government would have the right, and has always utilised the right, either to have a greater deficit at the end of the year or to bring a Loan Bill before the Houses of the Parliament for the purposes of supplementing its-Budget Estimates. That is nothing unusual. It is not a device, it is not new and it is not a departure from the norm. 
It is obvious from the thinking of the "members of the Opposition about the way in which any public instrumentality, least-of all- the Australian . Government, is financed that they have no clear understanding of what is required in these areas. ' Budget Estimates are  npt  documents which cannot  be  reviewed from time to time. As has been stressed by Government 'speakers in the other place and in this place, such a review is one of the options which are available to governments and. it will be an option which, if there were to be a change of government, clearly would be taken up by the incoming government, whenever that may be,- whether it be this year, next year, in 5 years .or to- 10 years. It will resort to the same strategy as this Government has resorted to in respect of this matter. 
The Senate Estimates-  Committees sat  for long hours- longer than normal-considering the Budget Estimates and were subjected in harass-ment and time-wasting as certain senators, in particular the 3 honourable. senators who have . led the; debate in this place namely  Senator Cotton, Senator  Carrick and  Senator Baume,  put the officers of the various; departments on the rack in an  endeavour "to* -find;  &amp;3£!&amp;ing onto which  to  latch in order to justify their political ambitions .at this point in time- and they failed miserably  ip  find one issue in those meetings  of  the Estimates Committees upon which they could fault the financial administration  of  this Government. Despite the fact that" they used every endeavour and questioned for -hours and hours in tedious repetition,  as  they moved from Committee.,  to  Committee trying to establish something onto, which they could latch in order to bring about that reprehensible situation of which their Leader spoke earlier this year when he assumed the leadership of the Liberal Party of Australia they failed to find a fault. It is normal for Oppositions to exercise this investigatory power, but the degree to which and the emotion with which they have exercised it on this occasion spells disaster for the Australian community. There will be disaster if that is to be the degree of polarisation of politics in Australia. 
As has been pointed out, the mechanism that is being adopted in this case is being adopted to finance part of the Budget. A great deal has been said by members of the Opposition about deficits. There is nothing sacrosanct about deficits in terms of the preparation of Budgets. Those of us who have been in local government recognise the juggling that has to go on and, if you like, the manipulation that has to go on and the expectation that has to go on in terms of expenditure. A similar situation applies in the States and in the Commonwealth area. The suggestion that there is something immoral or improper about a deficit at the national level means either that the Opposition has no understanding of the situation or it is the victim of its own propaganda, its own fears and its own prejudices as it endeavours to create a political climate in this country to justify the breaking of a convention. Of course, that is what the members of the Opposition have been searching for throughout the whole of this spring session. They have been searching for an issue on which to try to justify the breaking of probably the last convention insofar as parliamentary democracy is concerned. They have been associated with every ulterior, improper activity in respect to breaking down respect for the parliamentary institution. 
One has only to look at the way which the members of the Opposition have applied themselves in respect to this piece of legislation. When  Senator Cotton  took up this matter 7 weeks ago he asked a whole series of questions, which have been recorded in  Hansard.  He has probed, queried and asked and he has probed, queried and asked again in respect to a whole variety of matters. He has asked some 20-odd questions. I am not going to canvass them all because time will not permit. All of the questions which have been raised by honourable senators opposite, including those who have spoken in the last day or so, have been answered by the Government and its economic advisers. Of course, when one looks at those questions one sees that they do indicate that the members of the Opposition have availed themselves of the opportunity of asking questions and that those questions have been propertly answered and that when those questions have been properly answered honourable senators opposite have moved on to other questions in an attempt to attack the credibility of this Government. 
I have talked about the subject of deficits. I want to refer honourable senators and those who have adopted some sort of fair-minded approach to the subject of deficits to a very interesting article that appeared in the  Age  of 1 October in which Budget deficits were considered as a proportion of the gross national product. Of course, the article puts Australia's position in relation to this Budget deficit, the one that is under attack, the one of which the Loan Bill is part of the general overall deficit. The  Age,  in its assessment of whether Australia was stepping out of turn and whether Australia was making incorrect economic judgments and management decisions, was able to produce a graph showing that Australia was in the same category as Germany and the United States of America and that New Zealand and Great Britain were in a worse position than Australia in their Budget deficits. Australia 's Budget deficit represented some 4 per cent of its gross national product. Australia was in line with the United States of America and Germany which also had Budget deficits which represented 4 per cent of their gross national product. In New Zealand the figure was 5 per cent, in Great Britain it was 8.5 per cent and in Japan, which is very close to us, it was 3.5 per cent. Yet it is suggested that there is something wrong with our position. Despite those figures which are official Budget figures in the countries concerned, there appeared in the back pages of our free Press at least an indication that the Americans were not going to breach their Budget deficit estimates. On page 58 of the Sydney  Sun  the same date as the date of the article in the Melbourne  Age,  to which I have referred, the following appeared: 
The U.S. Budget deficit for the 1975-76 financial year could soar as high as $A70,200 million from the current estimate of $A53,040m . . . 
That is a $ 1 7,000m increase, which represents an increase of about 30 per cent in the deficit provided in the American Budget. Are honourable senators opposite therefore suggesting that America is in a crisis situation, that the American Government should be overthrown by subversive conspiratorial methods, that the American Government is on the downward trend, that the American Government is sliding into bankruptcy and that the whole of the capitalist system in America is in danger of falling. Of course not. 
Nevertheless for party political reasons and for the purpose of trying to create the political climate which has been the political object of the Opposition parties since they lost office in December 1972, they are setting out to highlight and exaggerate our position and to create the conditions which will justify the rejection of another Bill that will come before this chamber which will seek to provide money which is essential to enable the Government to carry out its program. 
If the theory is that the public sector has a very limited role to play in the overall development of this country, I would like honourable senators opposite to get on their feet and say so. However, they are always strangely silent when it comes to the question of the role that the Australian Government should play in the redistribution of resources in this country and to the question of providing facilities for those who are less fortunate than others. We always find that those spokesmen who are most vocal and most caustic and who use the most extravagant language are those who are strangely silent when we ask them to indicate what sections of public expenditure they would reduce. They are never prepared to identify themselves with cut backs in public spending. Of course, there would be reasons for this. Opposition parties want to gain office by a devious trick, by capitalising on certain political trends that are taking place in this country without having any clearly identified policy with which to win an election. The high drama facing this country at the moment is the result of this deliberate policy, this concoction, this presentation of issues in the highly emotive terms of which we have heard so much in the Senate since 1 972. 
Looking at government expenditure as a proportion of gross domestic product, we find again that Australia is in one of the better positions among the Western countries. For example, government expenditure as a proportion of gross domestic product was 33 per cent in the United States, 39 per cent in Canada, 42 per cent in France and 50 per cent in Sweden. Where is Australia? It is at the bottom of those countries I have just read out, at some 32 per cent. Yet the parrot cry and the politicalisation that has been taking place in recent times suggest that what has happened in Australia where we have raised the proportion of public spending in relation to the gross domestic product is an act of immature, inexperienced and irresponsible politicians. 
Quite the opposite is the case. Those on the other side of the chamber who say 'hear, hear' show to the Australian people the horrible alternative that faces them in the event of the Opposition bringing about the constitutional crisis which it is seeking to bring about in this country. Even on the question of taxation revenue as a proportion of our Budget income- this is another area in which we have had a lot of emotive thinking and public statements from the Opposition- it is instructive to note that in 1974-75 total taxation revenue as a percentage of gross national product in Australia was only 30 per cent. In the heartland of capitalism in the United States, it was 33 per cent. Yet Opposition senators have the temerity to suggest that this Budget, this piece of legislation, this method or procedure or machinery which is a normal process of government has some ulterior motive and that there is some reason for it to be probed and rejected by the Senate. Table 9 in the Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure dealing with the loan fund shows that the loan represents $1,1 52m out of the total Budget of $ 19,000m. From the point of view of simple mathematics that represents only 6 per cent of total government Budget income for this financial year, 1975-76. The purpose of the loan is to finance defence expenditure, which represents 8.8 per cent of Budget expenditure this year. 
How can anyone argue rationally and logically that the Government's endeavours to finance its defence expenditure through the stratagem of a Loan Bill represents irresponsibility and a stratagem which is different from that adopted in past years? In the large number of answers that  Senator Wriedt  provided to questions asked by  Senator Cotton  and in the answers to another lot of questions placed on the notice paper by the Opposition in which all the queries were raised, one still finds that honourable senators opposite reject the explanations and the defence that the Government and its economic advisers have provided and they have taken the stand in respect of this legislation that the Government is acting improperly and irrationally.  Senator Carrick  subjected the Senate to his usual hysterical rancour, making assertions which are completely denied, which have no substance, which ignore the degree to which the Government went on providing answers to questions which have been recorded in the Senate  Hansard. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15p.m. 

Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the questions that had been raised by Opposition senators about the deficit in the 1975-76 Budget which they were criticising as being inordinately large and one which could not be held to that figure. I have had a chance to examine the contribution of  Senator Cotton  in this respect. He pointed out that it is proper and competent for the Government to finance deficits by domestic borrowing or by having access to the credit pool created by the Government itself. Whilst I can say that he raised some doubt about the capacity of the Government to raise this sort of money- I think  Senator Walsh  pointed out in his contribution yesterday the success which the Government had met in the last loan borrowings- I have no doubt that the Australian people would respond to the launching of this Loan Bill for the purpose particularly of financing the Government's defence expenditure, or two-thirds of it. 
It is interesting to note that  Senator Cotton  drew attention also to the fact that during the last 2 years savings banks deposits have risen by about $2,000m, which represents almost a 20 per cent increase on the deposits of a year ago. This hardly seems to me to represent the sort of crisisprone economy which the Opposition has been speaking about so vehemently in this place. Of course, the loan and the deficit with which the Government is associated have been strongly criticised by  Mr Fraser  and his speakers in this place. But going through the Leader of the Opposition 's speeches and contributions to conventions and the Parliament in recent times it is very revealing to find that he has committed himself to adopting the Mathews Committee proposals over a 3-year period. This will cost $300m. He will abolish the levy on the export of coal. This will cost $720m. He will reduce personal income tax by $500m. He will reintroduce the 40 per cent investment allowance. This will cost $300m. He will abolish the levy on the export of beef. This will cost $20m. He will reintroduce the superphosphate bounty. This will cost $30m. This makes nonsense of the rhetoric which  Senator Baume  was speaking today. In the light of the Leader of the Opposition's public statements, the Budget deficit will rise from $2,800m to something like $4,000m. In those circumstances I think we ought to reject the comments that have been made so irresponsibly by Opposition senators. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the decision of the Liberal Party Federal Council to direct Liberal State governments to instruct their Governors not to issue writs following a legitimate request of the Australian Government to hold a normal Senate election? Does the Government regard this as an unsavoury intrusion from an unrepresentative minority to properly constituted electoral procedures. Further, does the Government see these developments as representing a threat to our democratic institutions by a faceless group of persons who are acting in a totalitarian way to rape the Constitution in a grab for power so as to serve their own vested interests? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What was, or is the cost to the Australian Government of providing motor vehicle transport to the following honourable members: 
B. M. Snedden, Q.C., for the duration of his leadership of the aforementioned party; 
b) J. M. Fraser, the present Leader of the Liberal Party; and 
P. R. Lynch from December 1 972. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to some extent supplements the question asked of him by  Senator Bonner.  Is the Minister aware that a 4-man delegation, representing the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, which is the coordinating body of the major humanitarian and aid organisations in Australia, left for Portuguese East Timor yesterday? Did the members of that group discuss their aid mission with the Department of Foreign Affairs prior to their departure? Is the Minister aware that the International Red Cross has suggested that food aid is not necessary, contrary to other information which is available to the Department? In the event of the success of this mission will the Government be prepared to make available humanitarian aid to supplement these agencies, whose funds come from the charity of millions of Australians? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I refer to the Senate Estimates Committee discussions and ask the Minister whether he is aware that during these discussions several weeks ago there was consistent questioning of departmental officers about the progress being made in the rebuilding of Darwin. What effect will the decision of the Senate to delay the Appropriation Bills have on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Darwin? 
I present the following petition from 6 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen the reported statements by the Leader of the Opposition about his desire to cut government expenditure by 12 per cent in the 6 months period from January to June 1 976? Can he indicate how such a saving could be achieved within his portfolio? 
I present the following petition from 103 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decisions of the Australian Government- 
To depart from its 1972 election promise that basic pensions would be related to average weekly earnings and never be allowed to fall below 25 per cent thereof, and 
To increase postage costs and the costs of installation and annual rental of telephones, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decisions (a) and (b), and to determine 
That pensions be related to average earnings as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1972 policy speech, and 
That no charge be made for installation or rental on the telephones of those pensioners entitled to a P.M.S. card. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in the matter of the approval by the Senate of Bills for Supply to the Australian Government, certain decisions and declared intentions of Senators of the parties of the Opposition in Parliament are placing in jeopardy the welfare and basic human rights of those citizens who are aged or disabled and thereby dependent upon pensions payable by the Australian Government. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon all Honourable Senators to forthwith determine as a matter of urgency that approval of the Bills for Supply be no longer delayed in order that the Government shall continue to adequately provide for the welfare rights of Australian citizens. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the answer supplied to my question No. 796 by the Minister yesterday. I was referred to a list of the costs of car transport for Ministers, Opposition office holders and former office holders for the years 1973, 1974 and 1975 which was set out in the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 October. 1 ask the Minister: Does this not show that the cost of providing the new Leader of the Opposition with car transport from 21 March 1975 to 30 June 1975 has been $12,777? Does this not mean that on a 7-day week basis the Leader of the Opposition, who claims to stand for a reduction in Government spending, is costing the taxpayers in car expenses $ 1 30 a day, a rate which is higher than that of any Minister of the Crown? Will the Minister assure the Senate that in the event of a continuing constitutional and financial crisis, caused by the Senate refusing supply, action will be taken to reduce excesses of" this" nature by the Leader of the Opposition who is known to be financially well endowed? 
The Senate is once again debating the Appropriation Bills. There is a great deal of apprehension throughout the land at the continued attitude of the Opposition parties, attitudes which indicate clearly that they are endeavouring to create not only a constitutional crisis, a political crisis, but also a financial crisis from which the Australian community may well suffer considerably more damage than from the indecision that has characterised the attitude of the Opposition since the Labor Government came into power in 1972. 1 think it was  Senator Bunton,  as well as several other honourable senators, who drew attention yesterday to the fact that the Opposition parties had committed themselves to supporting the Budget. The Budget has been described by some of their spokesmen as being a Budget of moderation, a Budget that was seeking to bring about more confidence within the community. Yet the Senate has been subjected constantly to amendments to the Appropriation Bills for the purpose of destroying the Budget and destroying this Government. If the Budget were to be placed aside it would have disastrous effects from the point of view of the obvious recovery that is taking place within the economy in this country. 
The Government has challenged the Opposition time and time again to indicate what it considers to be the basic weaknesses in the structure of the Budget, to indicate the areas in which there ought to be cuts in government spending and general expenditure. Each time they have been challenged Opposition speakers, whether from the Liberal Party or from the National Country Party, have failed to meet that challenge. If the Budget is considered in more detail it will be found that the Opposition is using the Budget as a means of achieving a political end and that there is no justification for the political decision that has been taken by the Opposition parties. It is interesting that those who claim that the Parliament shall be supreme, those who claim the sovereignty of the Senate, those who express the view that the Senate is a House of review with rights and privileges, are the ones who have themselves surrendered the sovereign rights and given to the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  the responsibilities which surely should remain in this place. 
If one examines the Constitution, the whole background to the Senate and what was the thinking of the founders of our Constitution surely it must be remembered that the role of the Senate was to be that of a House of review and to protect the interests of the States. One therefore finds it very difficult to understand the illogicality of the Opposition in moving this amendment, which will have the effect of deferring the Budget and deferring the implementation of the Government's economic policies because within the Appropriation Bills that have been constantly before the Senate in the last week is the allocation that is to be made available to the States. An examination of the Budget shows that something like 38 per cent of the Australian Government's collection of national revenue is in fact earmarked in one way or another for grants to the States. So this place, which is supposed to represent the interests of the States, is creating difficulties so far as the States are concerned. One only has to examine the deficits of the States to appreciate the very grave responsibility that rests upon the Opposition parties in this place should they continue to defer or reject the Budget and its financial implications. 
When one examines the Budgets for the States in recent years one finds that almost without exception the States have been involved in deficit budgeting. Without exception the States have been clamouring for additional funds from the Commonwealth, and without exception the States will be affected by any immature premature decision of the Senate. Yet clearly that is the political aim of the Opposition parties. Of course, in this same Budget the basic essentials show that 37 per cent of the funds are earmarked for the Government's health, education and welfare programs. So some 75 per cent of the amounts provided in the Appropriation Bills which are before the Senate for consideration have the purpose of meeting the basic needs of the Australian people; that is funds provided by the Australian Government and by the States in the earmarking of funds from the Australian Government to the State instrumentalities. Yet there is this continuing attitude by the Opposition, an attitude which it seems to me is designed to undermine public confidence in the economy and in the Government itself. I want honourable senators to have some regard to their attitudes, to look at this area of decision making away from their political philosophy, to look at it from the point of view of what it will do to the economy of our country. It is interesting to note the comments in the newspapers, even as late as yesterday, and I quote from yesterday's Sydney  Sun: 
The latest forecasts are that the world economy will take much longer than expected to pull out of the worst recession since the 1930s. Over the past few months economists have been sadly revising their estimates. 
The article goes on to deny the basic essential argument of the Opposition speakers, and particularly the very pathetic effort of the mover of this amendment. Even now, Opposition speakers do not produce arguments to justify their attitude on the Appropriation Bills. They do not take into account the economic difficulties that face all of the western countries but endeavour to convince the Australian people that there is something exceptional and something different as far as the Australian economy is concerned. These tactics can be described only as devious, despicable, dirty tactics, designed to create a condition whereby the Government, which has a majority in the lower House, will be unable to govern, designed to create conditions of chaos throughout our community. The Opposition uses as its argument the deficit aspects of the Budget. It uses as its argument the inflation rate, ignoring the fact that in 1951, the second year of its 23 long years in power, Australia had the highest rate of inflation in the postwar years. It is significant that in 1951 the inflation rate was at its highest in Australian history- something like 8.85 per cent higher than it is in the current year. We are all aware of the very important figures which were released today which show that the Government is now on top of the problem of inflation in this country. At that point of time in 1951 the Menzies Administration was in a minority in the Senate, yet there was no suggestion that the Labor Party should exercise its powers to reject the 1951 Budget, despite the high rate of inflation and despite the uncertainty that existed in the business community at that time. Since the Whitlam Government came to power in 1972 we have been concerned with a large legislative program- 627 Bills have been passed by the House of Representatives, and of that number 498 have been considered and passed by the Senate. Some 71 of them have been rejected. Many of those have been important pieces of legislation to give effect to the Government's economic policies and management responsibilities. They have been affected by the carefree attitude that the Senate has adopted. We are reminded that from the first few months in the life of the Whitlam Labor Government, honourable senators opposite began a policy of obstruction, not review; it began a policy of conspiracy, not co-operation; and it began a policy of bringing down and undermining this Government. 
I well recall the remarks of  Senator Withers  on the eve of the double dissolution in 1974 when he said that the Opposition had set out a year before to bring this Government down. I was surprised to find that  Senator Guilfoyle  expressed similar sentiments in another place which indicated that there was a plan, a plot and an endeavour to bring about the downfall of the Government. We all know, of course, the subjective factors that led to the denial of Supply, which was the instrument which brought about the double dissolution in 1974. I am surprised that members of the Opposition parties, who have always decried the philosophy that the end justifies the means, should apply this very principle so far as this Government is concerned- a goverment which twice in 3 years has been given a majority in the Lower House and which, even in the double dissolution elections of 1974, failed by a handful of votes in Queensland and New South Wales to win the additional seat in each of those States. There is no question that this Government would have enjoyed a sufficient majority, with the good sense of honourable senators who are non-aligned in this House, to carry forward its legislative program. 
It is in these circumstances, when Bill after Bill in this House is being rejected again by the Senate, that we have to take this problem to the Australian people. We have to tell them what is happening to their country, what is happening to the instruments of Parliament, and what is happening to parliamentary democracy. Of course, in this area it is clear that Opposition senators have surrendered to  Mr Fraser  their right to make the decisions. They gave away that democratic and jealous right which they claim is theirs when they gave  Mr Fraser  the right to make the decision whether Supply would be denied or not. In case anyone has any doubts, I have taken time off to see what  Mr Fraser  has had to say. Speaking to an outside organisation he said at the Federal Council of the Liberal Party in his keynote address: 
I think I will never be involved in a more difficult or momentous decision than the one which now faces us. 
Of course, he said also on the television program  This Day Tonight  that it was his task to determine the issue of the Appropriation Bills and Supply. It is interesting, of course, that we do not hear about the faceless men in these circumstances. We do not hear that people outside the Parliament were making considerations as they did with respect to the possibility of a normal election of the Senate, which is due to take place before June 1 976, and how the Federal Council of the Liberal Party in fact gave the riding instructions to the four anti-Labor conservative Premiers to deny certain elementary facilities for the purposes of holding normal Senate elections. The quesion that has to be raised in this place relates to the conventions upon which the whole parliamentary system operates. We find, for example, that conventions are the basis upon which Parliament functions- conventions which are not readily identifiable or found in the Constitution or in any decision of the High Court, but conventions upon which the Parliament itself could not operate without some degree of understanding and some degree of common sense, bearing in mind that many of these conventions are related to the Westminster system of government. 
What are these conventions? That the Prime Minister's office itself is not identified in the Constitution; that the Governor-General himself is not obliged to ask the majority leader to form a government; nor does the Constitution or any legal decision recognise any rights so far as the Leader of the Opposition is concerned; nor does it recognise the facility known as Cabinet; nor is there any reference to the fact that the High Court has power over and above the Constitution. There is nothing in the Constitution that suggests that the High Court has any particular powers in these respects. There has not been any departure from the principles that have been laid down about the Prime Minister residing in the House of Representatives. We all recall that when  Mr Gorton  was in this place and was selected by the Government parties at that time to become the Prime Minister, he took the decision to resign from the Senate so that he could occupy that position in the House of Representatives. There was nothing in the Constitution or in the statutes of this country that would have prevented him from occupying the position of Prime Minister in this chamber. It was one of the conventions. Of course, there is certainly nothing in the Constitution itself. Another of the conventions permits the Leader of the Opposition to have discussions with the Governor-General or to be summoned to appear before the GovernorGeneral. There is not necessarily precedent for that. There is no reason that these conventions should be followed, other than the fact that they are conventions and that they are traditions. 1 think it is in the Constitution that  Her  Majesty has certain rights to disallow a Bill within a year of its passing both Houses of the Parliament. It is a convention which has never been taken up, so far as I have been able to ascertain. What other conventions operate within the parliamentary system itself? We have the convention that deals with pairs. It is not provided for but it is a matter of convenience. It is a matter for the consideration of the parties in this place. 
We have the convention where the government of the day is entitled to ask the Leader of the Opposition to table documents of the previous Administration. Of course we know that with respect to the very shameful episode in which  Senator Young  and his Party were involved in relation to the war in Vietnam, when we wanted to table the documents to show exactly where the Opposition parties while in government had lied to the people and to the Parliament, the convention was maintained by the Whitlam Government. We did not go ahead and table the documents. We gave  Mr Fraser  the opportunity, by convention, to maintain that propriety of not dealing with Cabinet documents in a public way because the convention said that it required the consent of the Leader of the Opposition. Of course, there are conventions that work in respect of this Senate. Section 17 of the Constitution gives the Senate the right to withdraw the  President  of the Senate by a simple vote. That has not been done in 75 years. It is another of the conventions which has been broken by no party or group since Federation. By a simple vote- he does not have to be guilty of a misdeamenour- the  President  can be removed. It is another of the conventions which honourable senators up to now have respected, as they have respected the conventions of the other matters to which I have referred. It is not difficult to appreciate that even the Opposition had some regard for these sorts of matters. 1 refer to a statement which the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  made on radio on 2 March. He said: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of the rules of law. 
Of course, we know that  Mr Fraser  came to the leadership of the Liberal Party because of the dissatisfaction and the misjudgment which have been characteristic of the Opposition parties and which led to the defeat of their grab for power in 1974. Who among the Opposition senators will now not concede that they made a grave political misjudgment when they set in motion the denial of Supply in April 1974? They thought that they were on a winner then, as they think that they are on a winner now. They lost then and they will lose now because they are the ones who are undermining the convention. They are the ones who because of their class position are unable to appreciate that sometimes there is a need for a change in the manner of government and for a change of emphasis in government. While I am dealing with this subject I should like to refer to what  Mr Fraser  himself had to say in an address to a Liberal Party group conference in April 1972 when he was Minister for Education and Science. He said: 
There are those who work endlessly to break down the constitutional mechanism of change by bypassing it, by advocating courses without the law. If a significant minority feels that the democratic processes are so loaded against them that they can never be successful, then that democracy has in store a dangerous and difficult time in which great tolerance and understanding would be required. 
I suggest, and I submit to the judgment of the Senate, that those sorts of circumstances have been created by the Opposition in its endeavours to deal with this matter and to deny to the Government its legal right to continue its role in office. The convention to which I refer indicates that since Federation on 20 occasions when the Appropriation Bills have been discussed by the Senate the Government parties- whether they were Labor or Liberal or any other Party- have been in a minority position in this House of review. One is not able to say that in the 75 years since Federation there have not been circumstances and times of stress and tension when the majority group in the Senate, in the considered judgment of that group, could not have exercised the sort of immature decision that is apparent and has been apparent during the last several weeks in respect of the Appropriation Bills currently before the Senate. 
The Liberal Party has made a political decision, and of course in making that decision it has relied upon its judgment and what it believes to be the popular will. It is interesting to note that when  Mr Fraser  made his momentous decision, which I agree received endorsement by his Party and by honourable senators opposite, he said that there was a call throughout the land for the removal of this Government. It is with some significance therefore that we find that subsequently the Opposition had to spend $120,000 in inserting full-page advertisements in newspapers throughout Australia to justify delaying the Appropriation Bills last week. 
Of course, it is significant also that prior to that decision having been made by this great man of principle,  Mr Fraser,  and prior to honourable senators opposite meeting and making their decision, the Liberal and Country Parties had in fact booked space on all the television and radio stations throughout Australia in the expectation that an election would be held between now and Christmas. When the Labor Party was confronted with the likelihood of an election taking place it endeavoured to make some bookings on television and radio stations in order to present the policy of the government of the day. But it found that the Liberals had organised so far ahead and in such a way as to prevent any other major grouping from being able to get access to television viewing times. Yet when those bookings were made  Mr Fraser  was still saying that he was considering all the Bills. 
After the Opposition had made the big decision and spent all this money on television it went out to the streets with its rallies. It tried to shape public opinion in its favour. We are aware of how  Mr Fraser  spoke to all the newspaper proprietors. We are aware of how he endeavoured to marshal them behind his point of view and his decision. But we are also aware that public opinion did not respond, that the call was not there, that there was no support for the proposition. I am told that a public opinion poll which is currently being held shows that something like four out of five people in Australia are appalled at the tactics used by the Opposition. It can only be said as far as the Opposition 's actions are concerned that there has been a miserable response to the Opposition's breaking of the convention, to its endeavours to deny to a legitimate government the right of economic management of this country. 
Of course, many people have expressed themselves on these matters. If I have time I shall quote some people to indicate how the thinking members of our community want the Government and the Opposition to act responsibly. We do not want to get ourselves into the position where government will be ruled by gallup polls. We have seen in many other countries what grabs for power mean. We saw what happened in 1967 in Greece when the colonels seized power. We saw what happened in 1 973 when the generals seized power in Chile. I do not think that it is very much different from this savage grab for power by using blatant numbers in this place to achieve the same sort of result- to deny the very legitimacy of the Government which has been twice confirmed in the polls. Leaders in other countries in their lust for power have raped the constitutions of those countries and it has been to the detriment of those countries and of the people in those countries. It seems that  Mr Fraser  will surely go down in history as the only leader of a political party who tried to conceive government with a premature ejaculation, because that is what will happen. He will be defeated. The Government is not going to go under. The Australian people will not surrender the support for the Government which they have elected twice in 3 years.  Mr Fraser  must learn to be less anxious, less impatient. He must learn to curb his insatiable urge for power. He must learn the lessons that brought about the defeat of  Mr Snedden.  The Constitution quite specifically provides the safety valve which Opposition senators have been talking about both in this place and in other places in recent times. It provides for an election every 3 years. It is in the interests of stability and well being that that provision is in the Constitution. No country can take such ravishes as have come from the Opposition in recent weeks. In the interests of democracy they must be withstood. 
Ever since the Whitlam Government has come to power the conservatives have used every opportunity to delay the Government's legislative program. We have suffered a great deal of obstruction of that program over the last 3 years. The Opposition parties have refused consistently to accept the umpire's decision, and they talk glibly now- even people like  Senator Cotton  do so- about letting the people decide. The people decided in 1972. The people decided in 1974. There is no evidence to suggest that the people want an election. In fact, the contrary is the situation. 
Let us look at who was responsible for the situation in 1973 and 1974. It was  Mr Anthony,  that maverick from the bush, who sought in the first instance to con  Mr Snedden  into denying Supply in 1973, but that hump was overcome by the Government.  Mr Snedden  did not take the plunge in 1973. Then in 1974 he was persuaded by the Leader of the National Country Party to take on the Government and to set in motion the process of denying Supply. What happened? The very gentleman who conned the Liberal Party into making that very blatant grab for power was the very person who undermined  Mr Snedden.  During the election campaign we heard the stupid statements he made about petrol prices and for which he traduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the newspapers, economists and people generally. He was the one who helped to undermine that grab for power from  Mr Snedden  in 1974. It was  Mr Snedden  who was shot down in flames by  Mr Anthony.  Of course, it is the same  Mr Anthony  who began the public campaign when  Mr Fraser  was saying: 'No, I believe that a government which has a majority in the lower House, a government which enjoys the confidence of the lower House, shall have the right to govern. I will not succumb to the mistakes of my predecessor'. He finally succumbed to the entreaties of  Mr Anthony. 
Of course,  Mr Anthony  has set in motion the processes which have put the Senate in the front line of power politics in this country. At the same time as that political situation was created the National Country Party was strengthening its organisation in Queensland and made the decision to contest the elections in Tasmania, thus undermining the very Party with which it claims to be in coalition. This is something like the chickens coming home to roost, as far as  Mr Fraser  is concerned. He, and indeed the Opposition parties, have fallen for  Mr Anthony's  3-card trick. 

 Mr Fraser is quite adept at putting into practice the principle of undermining people and institutions. We know the part that he played in creating difficulties for the Holt Administration. We know what  Mr Gorton  has said repeatedly about the back stabbing of  Mr Fraser.  We know some of the statements that were made when  Mr Snedden  was under challenge.  Mr Fraser  went on record as saying that he was not involved, that he had absolute trust, respect and loyalty for his leader, that he was not involved in the first putsch against  Mr Snedden. His  colleague,  Mr Staley,  became his public apologist. He was the one who said: 'I did it all.  Mr Fraser  had nothing to do with it'. The plain fact was that in a very short space of time  Mr Fraser  undermined  Mr Snedden  to the point of winning the leadership of the Liberal Party. It is said that we ought to abdicate government- the conservatives in this country are saying that the Senate ought to have the right to force us- and hand it over to the Opposition. It is said that there ought to be an election, that this House of review ought to make the running in relation to this issue. 
It is very interesting to note that the British Parliament, which is based upon the Westminster system, saw fit many years ago to take steps by a decision of both Houses of Parliament to take away from the House of Lords its right to deny the lower House, the people's House, the passage of legislation relating to financial matters, because it was necessary to remove the instability in the British parliamentary system. It is very interesting to note that at this very moment in England the Conservatives, or the peers as they are called, in the British House of Lords are considering whether to force a constitutional crisis in respect of government legislation- not Supply Bills, because the House of Lords has surrendered that right. The House of Lords has taken the view that it should not have the right to throw out of office a constitutionally elected government. 
At the moment the British House of Lords has before it 2 Bills, the Trade Union and Labour Relations Bill and the Community Land Bill, both of which are opposed by the Conservative Party. In the interests of good government, in the interests of stability in government, in the interests of appreciating that the will of the people is to be found in the lower House, the Conservatives in Britain are at this moment trying to find a formula which will enable that legislation to pass. Even if they have to amend it, they will not reject that legislation. Yet the conservative forces in Australia are endeavouring to use every avenue, every means, every tactic, at their disposal not only to reject Bills which are part of the legislative program of the Government but also to deny the Government the financial means to carry on. To a degree they are able to succeed temporarily in that process. I give the warning to the Opposition that, because of the very nature of this House, because it is elected on the basis of proportional representation, governments in the future will have to hope that death takes a holiday. They will have to hope that the older members of the Senate will see out their 6 year term of office and that the younger members are not involved in an accident which will in some way change the fundamental balance of the House of review. 
I find it very interesting to refer to what was said yesterday by  Senator Walsh  when he was speaking about what  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, had said in respect of an article that appeared in the newspapers just recently. It is an interesting comment for  Sir Robert  Menzies, as he now is, to make in 1975 because it denies every word that he wrote in an article in 1968 which appeared in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  I hope that the Senate will afford me the opportunity which it afforded to  Senator Rae  who had that statement incorporated in  Hansard.  I will seek leave at the end of my remarks to incorporate in  Hansard  what  Sir Robert  Menzies had to say in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of Monday 1 1 March 1968. It indicates the sort of behaviour patterns and tactics which are being applied in this crisis we are currently facing. At that time, of course,  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, was referring to the fact that the Opposition parties, including the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the independents, had a majority in the Senate. He said: 
The Senate command of government by a party in a minority in the House of Representatives would be absurd. It would be a falsification of popular democracy. 
Of course, he was talking about the difficulties the Government found itself in at that time. He went on to say: 
The purpose of this article is to examine the powers and the authority of the Australian Senate. 
This is an important and topical matter, for in the new Senate the Government will not have a majority in its own right, though it was, little more than a year ago, given by popular vote, a very large majority in the House of Representatives; a majority which, in the normal course, it will continue to have for the better pan of the next two years. 
It is as if  Sir Robert  Menzies was writing of the period today, except, of course, that this Government cannot be said to have a large majority in the House of Representatives. Nevertheless, it has a workable majority. One could be forgiven for thinking that  Sir Robert  might have been writing about today's situation. After setting out and explaining the powers of the Senate,  Sir Robert  went on to comment: 
In the end result, the Senate has a full power of rejecting any Bill. This means that if a government with a clear majority in the House of Representatives presented its Budget to Parliament and then brought into the House of Representatives financial measures to give effect to that Budget, and had them passed by the House and sent up to the Senate, a hostile Senate could legally reject them. This of course, would create an impossible situation and would make popular government unworkable.  ( Quorum formed) 
Before that unnecessary interruption I was drawing attention to the fact that  Sir Robert  Menzies had said that whoever commands a majority in the House of Representatives forms a government and has the right with his colleagues to govern. This position is not really in dispute. So one finds it difficult to comprehend how it was that this geriatric politician, 10 years out of active politics, could be persuaded to come out of retirement and dictate a statement, as was suggested in a newspaper he did, completely and diametrically opposed to that article to which I have referred. That is why I seek leave of the Senate to have it incorporated in  Hansard  so that it may stand in stark contrast to the statements which  Senator Rae  inserted in  Hansard  only a day or two ago. Of course, the same  Sir Robert  Menzies spoke on another occasion in respect of the matter of 1 932 to which  Senator Walsh  made reference yesterday. I think this is relevant to the debate before us because the Opposition parties are suggesting that the reasons for their grab for power are because the Government has not got a majority in the electorate.  Sir Robert  said: 
For a newspaper to urge a double dissolution because in its opinion the Government has lost the confidence of the electorate is a mere impertinence. 
I want to refer to statements by other conservative persons. I find it interesting that a former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  would say: 
The problem of preventing the Senate from inhibiting and frustrating government can be solved by  constitutional  amendment, firstly, to deprive the Senate of the power to reject Supply for if it is to defeat a government it should do so on specific measures, not on general grounds of dislike. 
I think it has been proved in the debates both in the Parliament and outside the Parliament that the Budget alternatives which the Opposition parties have put forward do not constitute an alternative Budget or an alternative economic program for the Australian people.  Mr Hamer  put his remarks on record on 18 February 1974 when the matter was being mooted by the Liberal Party at that time and when the Liberal Party was being led by the nose by  Mr Anthony  of the National Country Party.  Mr Hamer  had this to say: 
Such a precedent could well render Australia ungovernable. Governments frequently have to make hard decisions which will be unpopular in the short term in the hope that their beneficial long term effects will be apparent before they have to face the electors. It would be outrageous if a government when it took such a hard decision could be forced into an election at the whim of minor parties in the Senate. 
The disastrous effect would not be that there would be many elections but rather that hard but necessary decisions would not be taken. Of course, as has been said by the Prime Minister time and time again in this last week or so, by making decisions to amend, delay or reject the Appropriation Bills we are placing an elected Government into a twice yearly crisis position. Whatever the political climate may be, no government could be expected to carry out its program if every May and October of each year it were subjected to these sorts of pressures by what can only be described as an irresponsible, politically motivated Senate determined to grab power for power's sake. When  Mr Holt  was Prime Minister he made the following statement on 10 May 1967: 
It is one of the most firmly established principles of British parliamentary democracy that a House of review should not reject financial decisions of the popular House. The terms of the Commonwealth Constitution reflect this principle. 
Of course it can be argued that the Constitution has 2 attitudes on this matter. It is open to interpretation. But I think the matter should not be determined in a legal way but rather on the moral question of whether a government enjoying support in the popular House should not have the right to see out its proper term. I find it rather sad and regrettable that the only worthwhile authority that has been produced by the Opposition to justify its very immoral decision of last week was  Sir Robert  Menzies, whom it brought out of retirement. The Opposition's attitude towards the rest of the Government's legislation in the intervening period has indicated that it is on a course to make parliamentary democracy unworkable in this country. The only authority that it can resurrect to justify these attitudesthese immature and undemocratic attitudesis obtained by bringing out a person whose whole political career can be shown to have contained errors of judgment. 
I well recall  Sir Robert  Menzies' praise for Adolf Hitler in the late 1930s. I well recall the reaction of the Labor movement to his decision to send pig iron to Japan. I well recall his support for the appeasement policies of  Mr Chamberlain.  I well recall how he was disgraced and defeated in the immediate war years by defections within the conservative parties. I can well recall how he endeavoured in 1951 to take away the fundamental rights of Australian citizens- he tried to establish the principle that a man was guilty and had to prove he was not guilty. We all know the great referendum campaign and the High Court judgments with which the Australian Labor Party was associated to retain democratic rights in this country. 
We all recall that in 1949 he was elected to put value back into the pound. He was the man who said in 1954 that we had 3 years to prepare for war.  Senator Walsh  yesterday ably presented the case to show how  Sir Robert  Menzies lied to the Australian Parliament- if parliamentary language does not permit that term, I shall use the word 'misled'- in respect of Australia's involvement in Vietnam in 1964. If  Sir Robert  Menzies' statement is the only justification that the Opposition parties can produce- if he is the only person of any substance to support them from their side of politics- then it indicates how little ammunition they have to defend the decision that they have taken. It proves how out of touch with the electorate they are. In the ensuing days and weeks it is clear that despite those who say that they do not want to see the issues decided outside the Parliament, these issues are going to be decided outside the Parliament.  Mr Fraser  has been associated with statements that the minority should not be denied its rights and that he does not want to see these issues determined in the streets. But it is precisely in the area of public opinion that this matter will be determined. The Opposition parties have made another gross error of judgment in that connection. 
One only has to reflect that if they had not been so impatient in April and May of 1974 in acting on their judgment that the electorate was against the Government, then it would have been a lay-down misere for them to have had the election which would normally have taken place in a month's time. What a serious miscalculation the Opposition parties made in judging that the people supported them and that they did not have any faith in this Government. In the normal sequence of events, without creating the conditions which now have placed parliamentary democracy in peril and without creating the public furore and concern that exists now within the Australian community, the Opposition would now, according to its judgment, be ready to assume the political and economic management of this country. But the Opposition erred before and it is erring again. It is denying the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. It is denying a right of government which has been written about by all of the legal and constitutional writers and all of the defenders of democracy.  Sir Isaac  Isaacs and other eminent constitutional lawyers have constantly placed before the Australian people the need to see the Senate as a House of review and not as a House bent to bring down the elected government. 
We of the Australian Labor Party welcome to our ranks people of the calible of  Senator Steele  Hall and  Senator Bunton-  people who are exercising a fundamental faith in the democratic processes in rejecting this savage grab for power which has been a characteristic of the Opposition since 1972. 1 recall my first experience in the Parliament in 1971, some 4 years ago. Parties were then somewhat similarly divided. My recollection is that there were almost even numbers for the Labor Party and the coalition parties with the Democratic Labor Party and I think  Senator Townley  occupied a balanced position between the Opposition, which was then the Labor Party, and the Government parties. I can well recall the manner in which  Senator Murphy  accepted his responsibilities in this place in terms of the Government's legislative program. I recall the degree of co-operation that was extended to  Sir Kenneth  Anderson by the Labor Party. True, the Labor Party from time to time did seek to build an alliance with the non-aligned senators for the purpose of defeating legislation and it did seek to amend the Budget and other legislation before the Senate. But the facts are, as shown in the record, that for 75 years the Australian Labor Party has never been associated in this place with any endeavours to bring down a government by way of any of its Supply or Appropriation Bills, despite the fact that we enjoyed on occasions a majority in the Senate. It is an indictment of the Opposition parties that they should use this stratagem at this point when in fact all the evidence points to a recovery in the economy and to the Australian Government being able properly to govern this country in the interests of the Australian people. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 27 October in which the Opposition 's spokesman on social security is reported to have stated that a person approaching Government departments for welfare aid would be, in the words of the article 'confronted as often as not by a crude, rude, untrained and insensitive person'. Will the Minister comment on that statement? 
I present the following petition from. 109 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democractic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and Slate Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary fro m State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same: and 
Require.; citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income cax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed  to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and follows to some extent the questions referred to him a moment ago by  Senator Davidson  when he drew attention to the reports from reputable observers sent by the Australian Council for Overseas Aid to Portuguese Timor. I ask the Minister: Do not these reports confirm previous reports from newsmen, aid groups, Red Cross doctors and parliamentary visits that the Fretilin movement represents the overwhelming view of the Timorese people and that Indonesia is actively involved in the fighting? I refer also to the question asked of the Minister a week ago about the 5 Australians lost a fortnight ago near the Indonesian border but in Portuguese Timor. Is it not now apparent that these men, in pursuit of the truth about the current war in Portuguese Timor, have lost their lives? What is the current position about inquiries into the cause of the deaths of these brave men and is there any truth in the consistent reports that the Australians were shot by either Indonesian troops or Indonesian backed troops and then their bodies burnt? Will the Minister demand the return of these bodies so that the cause of their untimely death can be determined properly? 
I present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Yesterday I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether reports by reputable observers from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid confirmed previous reports from others that the Fretilin movement represents the overwhelming view of the Timorese people and that Indonesia is actively involved in the fighting. In view of the numerous reports which point very strongly to Indonesian involvement in the prolongation of the war in Portuguese Timor, will the Minister now comment on this matter? Has the Australian 
Government abandoned its support of selfdetermination for the people of Timor? In conclusion, may I say that I am proud to be associated with the independence movement as enunciated by Fretilin in the struggle for the selfdetermination of the people of East Timor. 
We have been treated to a much more gentle speech- a persuasive speech, perhapsfrom  Senator Chaney  as he endeavoured to traverse a wide area in expressing the views of the Opposition as to why it has taken this very dangerous step of denying the Government its legitimacy, its finances and its right to govern. He has denied that a constitutional crisis exists, and he has endeavoured to draw upon the experiences of previous Oppositions and governments in the post-war years. I think he must accept that there is a constitutional crisis with us; there is a polarisation between the 2 Houses of Parliament. One cannot ignore the fact that the House of Representatives is locked in mortal combat with the Senate. This matter transcends all the previous attitudes and traditions of the 2 Houses of Parliament. 

 Senator Chaney ignored the fact that in the 75 years of Australia's development since Federation, despite all the trials and tribulations, no government has been subjected to a denial of Supply, and only occasionally has the threat been made. It was made in April 1974 when the Opposition seriously misjudged the position. A threat to deny Supply was made then, as it has been made on this occasion. All of us are aware of the subsequent events. If the Government were to succumb to the pressures of the Opposition it would be presenting to the Australian people the third election in 3 years. I think it does not do the case of the Opposition any good for its speakers to hark back to the occasion in 1970 when an attempt was made by the Australian Labor Party in opposition to reject the Appropriation Bills. That was the only such occasion. It does not do the case of the Opposition any good for its speakers to use that occasion as some substance or some argument to justify the unprincipled position that the Opposition is endeavouring to take on this occasion. That occasion in 1970 was 21 years after the Menzies Government came to power.  Mr Menzies  had used every device, every trick and every opportunity to change election dates, to go to the people at times which he considered to be politically advantageous to him and to change the normal timetable of the House of Representatives and Senate elections. In the frustration of that period endeavours were made by the Opposition Party at that time to reject the Appropriation Bills. 
The situation now is entirely different. On this occasion the Opposition is endeavouring to force to the people, to the polls, for the third time in 3 years a government that was legitimately elected after being in the political wilderness for a generation. The Opposition succeeded in forcing the Government to the polls when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  took up the challenge in 1974. The result shows that the Opposition was guilty of a very serious misjudgment. On this occasion the Opposition anticipated that we would do what we did in 1 974. Since 1 974, when we were returned to office, the Opposition has used every manoeuvre, every device at its disposal, to try to prevent the Government from carrying out its legislative program. That is regarded as legitimate activity. In the Twenty-ninth Parliament the Senate has rejected 32 Bills that had been passed by the House of Representatives. Over the years the Senate has rejected hundreds of Bills that had passed through the Lower House. The plain facts are- the Opposition must face up to this-that never in 75 years has the Senate exercised its power to reject a money Bill. The Constitution specifically states that the Senate does not have the power to amend a money Bill. To amend a Bill is only to change its form to some extent. To reject it is a greater penalty. 
So we are arguing that the Senate does not have the traditional or constitutional right to take the course of action which it has taken on this occasion. I refer honourable senators to the platform of the Liberal Party of Australia, which states: 
The Liberal Party believes that- 
Members of Parliament should possess appropriate qualities, experience, dedication and ability with a proper understanding of the parliamentary system and a respect for its traditions and functions . . . 
The Senate must be maintained as an institution for the effective and equal representation of all States and as a House of review. 
Those sentiments are quite contrary to the action that the Opposition has taken on this occasion. I am pleased to follow in the wake of one of my colleagues who referred to the action of honourable senators opposite in their grab for power as the action of bandits. In the political sense he is correct when he puts that sort of description on them. I say that they are pirates attempting to steal the ship of state. They are finding themselves now not enjoying the support that they thought was theirs when they took that decision only a fortnight ago. We must bear in mind that those who claim the sovereignty of this place, those who say 'Hear, hear' when I speak about the rights of the Senate, fail to appreciate that it was a person other than a senator who made the decision.  Mr Fraser  made the decision and told his Senate colleagues last Tuesday week that the Government was to be denied Supply. He made the decision, and he made it in the mistaken belief that there was support throughout Australia for it. 
Honourable senators opposite, in their contributions to the debate even this day, have said that the catalyst in this decision making of  Mr Fraser  was the resignation of  Mr Connor.  We started off the Budget session with the mavericks of the Opposition Parties suggesting that the Government should be denied Supply because of unemployment and inflation. As those issues faded somewhat in their significance, honourable senators opposite decided to latch on to the loans affair. There is no doubt that every encouragement was given by the editorial writer of the  Sydney Morning Herald  in the editorials of 15, 1 6 and 1 7 October. Those editorials said that the loans affair was the issue and was the reprehensible circumstance that ought to be grasped by the Opposition to bring about an election. They persuaded  Mr Fraser,  even in the light of his oft repeated statements. It is quite sufficient to relate one of them in this debate. Subsequent to his election as Leader of the Opposition earlier this year he said: 
The basic principle which I adhere to strongly is that a government that continues to have a majority in the House of Representatives has a right to expect that it will be able to govern. 
What has been the position? The Opposition put all its eggs into the Khemlani basket. It believed that  Mr Khemlani  would produce evidence that would prove that this Government was not fit to remain in office and that  Mr Khemlani  would be able to show that the Prime Minister or other Ministers of the Crown had in some way or other misled the Parliament. Two lawyers associated with the Opposition spent days going through 8 suitcases of documents. I refer to  Mr Howard  and  Mr Ellicott.  I think I could describe  Mr Ellicott  as a senior member of the Opposition Parties. What did  Mr Ellicott  say after he had gone through the documents? The transcript of a recent  PM  program states: 
But today,  Mr Bob  Ellicott, the Liberal front bencher who spent last night poring over the Khemlani documents, flew to Sydney to address a Rotary Club luncheon. After the lunch he blew the lid off the issue when he told an ABC news reporter there is no direct evidence in the documents he saw which involved the Prime Minister. It seems that  Mr Ellicott  had dropped the story that the government had been waiting for. 
He dropped the story and the excuse for which the Opposition has been waiting. Since the beginning of the Budget session the Opposition has set out to create a political climate. It has set out to create the conditions on which this Government would accept the gauntlet that was thrown down to it by denying the passage of the Appropriation Bills. The Opposition expects the Government to go to an election meekly, weakly and sweetly. It is to the credit of the Government that it has stood its ground. Let me set at rest the minds of Opposition senators.  Mr Fraser  has done more to unite the Labor Party than has any single person within the Labor Party. The arrogant grab for power which he set in motion only a fortnight ago has failed and is clearly now not enjoying any support from the Australian people. Very soon after that move was made by the Opposition it was apparent that public opinion was not going to swing behind it. The gallup polls which were published in the  Age  and the  Sydney Morning Herald  newspapers surely indicate clearly how the Opposition has again misjudged the situation and how it has failed in its attempts to force the Government to a poll for the third time in 3 years. 
Ever since this Government came to office it has been confronted with hostility and frustration in the Senate. I do not wonder that the Prime Minister has, in one way or another, expressed his frustration and concern at this continued arrogance which those political parties which have the numbers in this place have attempted to wield. The Opposition in the Senate has in these circumstances applied its mentality to a siege tactic in which rational debate has been replaced by irrational debate and irrational conduct. The polarisation which has taken place not only in the Parliament but also within the community itself is something with which the Opposition will have to live. There is no doubt that it is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs that this polarisation should be taking place. The decision that was taken was taken in the interests of those members of the Opposition who want to get back into power. I am sure that the subjective attitudes of the shadow ministers will be leading the pack in the Liberal Party meeting room. They felt that they were on a winner. They felt that they had the opportunity to hit home at the Government, to defeat the Government on the loans affair. 
What are the factors involved in the loans affair? First of all, no loans were ever raised. Secondly, no commission was ever paid. Thirdly, none of the documents, none of the statements that have been presented, has shown any irregularity on the part of the Government. It has been apparent to honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber that over the last week or so Opposition senators have sat in their places like stunned mullet. They have not been able to understand why the community has reacted as it has. They have not been able to understand that the Australian people are interested in a fair go for a government, that they are interested in the democratic processes with which the Labor Party has been associated ever since it was formed in 1 89 1 . 
The very behaviour of Opposition senators in this place this week has been an indication of the tension and the pressures being exerted on them. We have seen incidents on 2 occasions. Yesterday  Senator Greenwood  attempted to take away our right to present petitions and today  Senator Carrick  took another extremist position in relation to Portuguese East Timor. We have seen members of the Opposition parties dissociating themselves from the extremist positions taken by some other members of the Opposition. There is evidence that the Liberal edifice is beginning to crumble. 
We are subjected in these debates to propaganda and exaggeration from Opposition senators. We saw some examples of that this morning. I shall refer to only one of them because time will not permit me to deal with more than one instance. I wrote down the words that  Senator Carrick  used. He said that this Government was concerned with rigging the electoral laws. That sort of exaggerated comment is one of the reasons that the Opposition parties are not able to win majority support in the electorate. Let us face it; that was one of the issues upon which we fought an election in 1974. It was a double dissolution issue. The joint sitting determined the new electoral laws based on the principle upon which the Liberal Party, the Labor Party, the American Constitution and the Australian Constitution are supposed to be based, and that is the principle of one vote one value. Yet, in that exaggerated language which so often emanates from that quarter of the Opposition, that is regarded as rigging the electoral laws. 
It is that sort of behaviour pattern which is filtering through to the electorate. It is doing so in such a way that the gallup polls published today indicate that almost three out of four Australians dissociate themselves from the tactics being pursued by the Opposition. The gallup polls indicate also the popularity of the Party leaders. It is true that the popularity of the Prime Minister has been down somewhat in relation to what it had been a year or so ago, but the fact is that the latest poll shows that his popularity has risen considerably and that  Mr Fraser's  popularity has dropped very considerably since the start of the Budget session. God only knows how much more that will be reflected in the next popularity poll of the leaders. In the current poll  Mr Whitlam  is shown as having 37 percent support and  Mr Fraser  as having 34 per cent support. I venture to predict that when the next poll is taken, following the Opposition's disastrous decision,  Mr Fraser  will find himself outstripped completely by the Prime Minister. What has emerged from this opportunist grab for power is that  Mr Fraser  has shown himself to be not a credible alternative Prime Minister, and I think it might even show to the Opposition parties that he is not even a credible leader of the Liberal Party. 
The loans affair has been made an issue of substance for a considerable number of months.  Mr Khemlani,  who was traduced by the Opposition senators earlier this year, suddenly became a person of interest and of great concern and a person on whom the Opposition spent a great deal of time in recent days. But  Mr Khemlani  is not a Trojan horse.  Mr Khemlani  has not been able to do more than present documents which are documents which have been passed legitimately between himself and Ministers of the Crown in respect of the Government's overall objectives of obtaining funds so that we may purchase equity in the natural resources of our country.  Mr Ellicott  denied that the documents implicated the Prime Minister. We have seen the coercion which the shadow cabinet exerted on  Mr Ellicott  when he returned to Canberra on Tuesday evening when he was forced to issue a second statement. That is the sort of behaviour which the journalists, the political commentators and the people are picking up. They know something of what is happening in the Senate of this country. They should compare  Mr Fraser's  current position on the Budget with what he said about the Budget previously, namely that it was a responsible Budget, that there was some merit in it. Yet in its insatiable desire to get back into political power in this country the Opposition has taken the step of trying to delay the passage of the Appropriation Bills and it has taken up an extremist position. 
It is interesting to note that the extremists of those who seek power in the community and of those who have occupied political power in the community, always seem to have had recourse to the same sort of phraseology- whether it be the phraseology that was used in Germany in the 1930s, in Italy in the 1920s, by General Franco in the late 1930s, or by the military groups in Chile or Greece. At those times the people always used phrases, such as they claimed to be acting in the interests of the people; they were responding to the call of the nation; or they were acting in defence of the best interests of the people and in defence of democracy. It is very interesting to find how those phrases fit into the Fraser phraseology. He used precisely that terminology several weeks ago when he justified his decision to try to undermine public confidence in this Government. 
It is good to see that the Australian people have rejected this opportunist move that  Mr Fraser  and his colleagues made only a fortnight ago. It is good to know that the Australian people are able to see through the manoeuvre. It is good to see that even the newspapers, which were in the forefront of the campaign to defeat this Government and to force it to an election in December of this year, are now forced to put on their front pages details of the result of public opinion polls which justify the principal position that the Australian Government has taken. It is to be hoped that the Australian people will appreciate that in this chamber it is not just the Australian Labor Party senators who are supporting this position. The independent senator and the senator from the Liberal Movement are also supporting it. There is a welling up in the community- among academics, lawyers, church leaders and those people who are concerned with the democratic processes- an understanding that what is happening here in the Senate in October 1975 is a matter of regret and a matter that must be resisted at all costs. We can assure the Australian people that from our side of the chamber we will fight to retain this Government. We will fight against the endeavours to deny financial means to carry on. We will mobilise the Australian people. We will win the minds and the support of the Australian people in this constitutional-cum-political crisis which has been engineered by the Opposition. 
I present the following petition from 75 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the Government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the peoples' House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen reports of concern expressed by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  that his State is facing severe difficulty in continuing to provide workers compensation and third party insurance? Can the Minister say whether  Mr Lewis  has at any stage approached the Australian Government for special assistance with regard to workers compensation and third party insurance? If such an approach were made, what assistance would the Australian Government be able to provide? 
I present the following petition from 35 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 87 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in the matter of the approval by the Senate of Bills for Supply to the Australian Government, certain decisions and declared intentions of Senators of the parties of the Opposition in Parliament are placing in jeopardy the welfare and basic human rights of those citizens who are aged or disabled and thereby dependent upon pensions payable by the Australian Government. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon all Honourable Senators to forthwith determine as a matter of urgency that approval of the Bills for Supply be no longer delayed in order that the Government shall continue to adequately provide for the welfare rights of Australian citizens. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the communique which was issued from Rome yesterday and which was received by the Government. I refer also to the reply he gave to a question asked by  Senator Melzer  today. Is the Minister satisfied that Portugal will now accept its responsibility to the Timorese people and will immediately provide aid and technical assistance to that country? Is the Minister prepared, following his statement made in the Senate last Thursday, to offer facilities in Australia for talks between the Portuguese Government and the parties in Portuguese Timor? In these circumstances, does the Minister believe that the Indonesian involvement in the various incursions in Portuguese Timor at Batugade, Balibo and Maliana should now cease? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the ludicrous charge made by Indonesian sources that Australians are supplying arms to the Fretilin forces in Portuguese Timor? Is there any truth in these exaggerated claims that contrast sharply with the obvious fact that Indonesian regulars, as well as arms, warships and helicopters, have been supplied by the Indonesians to the so-called UDT and Apodeti forces? Is there any reason to doubt the Minister's reply made last month that there was no truth in the allegations? In view of the repetition of the allegations, would the Government give consideration to placing these serious charges before the United Nations with a view to investigating them as well as establishing the basic fact that it is Indonesia itself which is breaching the peace in Portuguese East Timor? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, it is good to know that the Opposition is supporting the 3 taxation Bills that are before the Senate. 
The Opposition is not opposing the Bills, to use the words of the previous  speaker, Senator Webster.  The Opposition does not intend to vote against the legislation, even though it has produced all sorts of arguments in both the other place and this chamber to suggest that there are some deficiencies in the Bills. It is interesting that the Opposition is putting itself in the position where it is not opposing the Bills because they are revenue Bills of the Australian Government. This stand contrasts very considerably with the opposition which the same parties have offered to the Appropriation Bills which relate to the expenditure side. However, I suppose that we can be thankful for small mercies. Even though many words have been spoken by the Opposition, when the vote is taken at least the new deal for taxpayers that is inherent in this legislation will be adopted by the Senate and therefore will become law. 
In my view honourable senators opposite have given us something of a thesis on economics. They have lectured us at length about the deficiencies within the economy and have, not applied themselves to any considerable extent to the substantial benefits that will accrue to the community as a result of the passage of these 3 Bills. I think it has to be said from the beginning that the Budget itself- of course, these taxation 
Bills are an integral part of the Budget- contains substantial and sweeping changes to the income tax to be paid by persons in Australia. I think other speakers have described it as being one of the most important reforms in the post-war years. The Opposition has criticised the changes in concepts in the Income Tax Bill. I wish to deal substantially with that part of the legislation because I think that that is the most substantive part of the 3 Bills that are before us. It is the part which will provide most benefit for most people. 
The Opposition had the opportunity, during 23 long years, to bring about the changes that need to be made in the personal income tax structures. Apart from appointing  Mr Justice  Asprey to conduct an inquiry into taxation in the dying days of the McMahon Government and making one minor amendment to the income tax laws in 1954, I think it can be said in a rather general way that the previous Government made no substantial change or alteration in the tax system between 1949 and 1972. In some years when the economy was in a somewhat tight position and it was necessary to get more money into circulation, there was some minor reduction in income tax- I think to the extent of 2  lh  per centbut once the economy got back on to its feet, in the view of the Government at that time, that concession was taken off in the following year. 
I think that we are concerned about the purpose of taxation. There is no doubt that governments the world over use income tax as the base of their taxing systems. Of course, the purpose of taxation is to redistribute resources and incomes and to provide community and public servicesto take money out of private sector spending and to put it into public sector spending. That is the purpose of taxation in its philosophical sense. Sometimes when I hear members of the Opposition speak in both this chamber and the other place I wonder whether they are aware of their own parties' policy on taxation or whether they are speaking with their tongues in their cheeks. The purpose of this legislation is to bring about more equity in the income tax field. The Liberal Party, in its policy and platform, says that the achievement of its tax system should bring about an equitable system of taxation as between taxpayers in a similar position, and that the tax burden upon individuals should have regard to their ability to pay. It goes on to say that there is a need to have regard for the redistributive aspects of incomes and that this should be a pertinent factor in relation to the Australian Government's activities. 
When we consider the failure of the Opposition to change the tax structure during those long years in which it had undisputed sway in the national Parliament, and the degree to which community facilities suffered from the lack of Australian Government funds, we can understand why the Whitlam Labor Government has sought, in its Budget strategy in 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76, to bring about a transference of funds, through the taxation system so that public sector deficiencies, which were a feature in the post-war years, would be redressed, the imbalance would be recognised and the Government would be able to allocate sufficient funds to enable public services and public works to be provided in order to make up the leeway that was obvious to every person in Australia. 
We do not make any apology for the fact that, in a period when there is obviously excess money in the community, tax money should be collected for the purpose of redressing the deficiencies in the areas of education, sewerage, roads, the National Estate and so on, in respect of all of which I need make no more than a passing reference, and of providing the essential welfare program which has been a characteristic of this Government 's policy during its term of office. We believe that the Opposition, in not opposing these Bills, at least is recognising its own limitations of the past and the fact that the Australian people want the Australian Government to become more financially involved in providing public services for the Australian people. 
The Income Tax Bill will bring about some very important changes in the tax liabilities of the average Australian. Whilst it is true that the changes in the tax system will bring about a situation where some people will pay more, the fact is that a greater number of people will pay lessand that is obvious.  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch,  honourable senators who have taken part in the debate on the economy and even newspapers in their editorials have referred to the need for restructuring the tax system in Australia. It is obvious that if there is to be a restructuring some people will pay more and some will pay less. The fact is that about two-thirds of all taxpayerssomething like 3 million Australians- will benefit from this new personal income tax scheme. It is an essential part of the strategy of the Budget on this occasion to place within the community sufficiently more funds to enable consumer demand to be stimulated and to enable those on lower incomes, who are disadvantaged most by inflation and by the old tax scales, to have more money to put into circulation. I think it is important to note that something like half a million Australians will be placed outside the tax scale with the passage of this legislation. 
That means that in the 3 years in which we have had a Labor Government something like 600 000 people will have been placed below the minimum taxation level into a position whereby their personal tax liabilities have been eliminated. 
I referred to personal income tax being the base of the taxing system but of course other avenues of taxation are available to governments. Governments can increase, decrease or maintain the existing form of indirect taxation. It can increase excise and other duties. But it must be said that it is in the area of income tax that inequities are most pronounced. There had been certain adjustments under the old taxation system but not sufficient to satisfy the Labor Party. This legislation has the effect of redressing inequities which existed in some of those areas which are long overdue for reform. The Government regards this Income Tax Bill as a reform which could be described as radical. It is innovative and it recognises views that have been put to the Government over a considerable number of years by the Australian Council of Trade Unions whose submission to the Government was considered very seriously and was adopted substantially in the 1975-76 Budget. 
The rebate system, which is the basis upon which the taxation system will now operate for persons, replaces what very readily can be described as an inadequate, unfair and in many cases discriminatory concessional system. The system that is now envisaged in this legislation is much more equitable and much fairer. I think it has to be said that this legislation will introduce a system which will be much fairer for the average taxpayer. I do not think any honourable senator can disagree with the statement that under the old system which is to be replaced extra benefits were given to taxpayers in the higher and middle income groups. There is abundant evidence to show that the difficulties which existed under the old system forced the lower income groups to pay a disproportionate share of their incomes in tax. 
This Government sought in its previous Budget, as it does in this Budget, to redress that and in fact to equalise the concessional areas of deductions which had grown over the post-war years to such an extent that they inverted the original concepts and in fact were giving considerable financial benefit, week by week, to those who were on higher incomes. All of us know that persons on higher incomes were able to spend money on medical and other insurance and in other areas in such a way as to get about two-thirds of their outlay back in their tax cheques at the end of the financial year, whereas those on a lower income who were paying payasyouearn tax were not given the same access to concessions. I think it has to be said that from now on no one will get extra benefits. All taxpayers under this legislation will be equal. I think that is a very important part of the legislation. It is a very important principle in line with the Government's general egalitarian policy of creating a much more equal society. 
This legislation does not deny some of the basic recommendations of the Asprey Committee, nor does it reject in entirety some of the important recommendations of the Mathews Committee related to taxation. All taxpayers, whether they are large or small income earners, will receive a minimum rebate of $540 per annum, which represents some 40 per cent of $1,350. That represents an important and tangible benefit for something like 3 million taxpayers in Australia. We can add to that other important proposals that are contained in the legislation: The rebate for sole parents- deserted wives or deserted husbands or persons bringing up a family on an individual basis and without the assistance of a married partner; the increased dependants' allowance, which is over and above the rebate system; and the home mortgage interest rebate which has been maintained in the Budget. I think it ought to be acknowledged by the Opposition that these proposed concessions do give to that section of the community which we represent- that is the overwhelming majorityaccess to a great number of benefits which did not have quite as much significance under the old system as they do under the new. 
Of course, in addition to the $540 rebate which will be available to all taxpayers, the deductions which applied for expenses incurred in earning an income will be retained, as will the zonal allowance, which is an important concession for those living outside the main centres of population, and the existing concessions as they relate to spouses and children, gifts to charities and school building funds, as well as the deduction for interest on home repayments to which I have referred already. These concessions will remain within the system and clearly represent a very important benefit to the average taxpayer. I agree with the preceding  speaker  when I say how pleased we are that in this Budget and in this legislation the property tax, or unearned income tax, to which  Senator Webster  referred in his contribution, has been abolished. The consequence of this, of course, is that a tax which was introduced a year or two ago has been recognised as being iniquitous and has been abolished. 
A lot has been said about the tax structures and about the need for reform of the tax scales. There has been a lot of public comment about this matter. I think it has to be said, in fairness to the Government and to the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that this legislation does represent a very important breakthrough as far as the average person is concerned. It is interesting that so much Press comment has been made over the years on the tax scales and about the Australian Government being the principal bogey man as far as tax is concerned. A closer examination shows that this is not the case and that in fact both State and local government taxation has risen in the period 1949 to 1973-74. 1 do not have the latest figures, but an examination does show that the percentage increase in the Australian Government's collection of tax is much closer to the average weekly earnings percentage increase than the tax collections of all of the other arms of government. I am talking, of course, of State and local governments. It is interesting to note that in 1948-49 the average Australian was paying $125.87 a year to the Australian Government and $15.52 a year to the combined State and local governments. The average weekly earnings at that period were $17.70. It is interesting to note also that the latest figures I was able to obtain show that on a comparative basis for the period 1973-74 per capita taxation paid to the Commonwealth had reached $823.06 a year whereas the combined State and local government rate had increased to $235.37 a year. 
The percentage increases show that Australian Government taxation- taxation under even the Labor Government, of which speakers have been quite critical- had increased by 554 per cent whereas taxation by State and local government authorities had increased by 1 ,4 1 7 per cent, and the average weekly earnings in the same period of time had increased by 567 per cent. When one examines average weekly earnings and the people's tax indebtedness to the Australian Government, it is clear that it is not the Australian Government that should be criticised and pilloried in respect of income tax and taxation generally. One could talk a great deal about the inequitable system of allocation of funds from the Commonwealth to the States which has brought about that inverted position as far as State and local governments are concerned. It is interesting to note, that people on the average weekly wage paid 5 times more tax under the first Budget of this Government than they did under the last Budget of the Labor Government in 1949. 
The whole objective of this legislation is to redress that situation and bring about a much better and more equitable system. In this legislation the Government seeks to introduce a tax scale of 7 graduations ranging, I think, from 27 per cent up to 65 per cent. So instead of having the dozen or so graduations which hitherto have appeared on the back of the tax form, taxpayers will now be put into 7 categories. Taxpayers will be in a much better position, particularly when one bears in mind that the rebate system which will replace the old concessional deduction system for the majority of tax deductions will give the greatest benefit to people earnings from $4,000 per annum up to the annual equivalent of the average weekly wage.  Senator Guilfoyle,  when speaking yesterday in this debate, seemed to be somewhat surprised to find that there were so many people on that minimum salary of slightly in excess of $4,000. I suggest that the honourable senator should look at the award rates of pay for many hundreds of thousands of people. Great numbers of unskilled workers are receiving a net income of between $4,000 and $5,000. It has to be recognised that in this legislation the Government is trying to improve the whole personal tax structure and has set itself the objective of giving relief to those who are most in need. 
I want to say a few words about the Liberal Party's new federalism policy as it relates to taxation. I find it difficult to comprehend the objectives which the Liberal Party has set itself in the area of taxation. In the document 'Federalism Policy', which he issued in September, some 6 weeks or so ago,  Mr Fraser  said: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties view as the main objective of government the creation of a society and an environment in which individuals may best fulfil themselves. 
When one reads through a lot more of the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  one finds running through them a desire to minimise Government, involvement in welfare and public sector activity and a desire that people should be able to do what they want to do with their own money. 
I do not want to go into the whole area of the development of our infrastructure, with so many petty restrictions and so much difficulty for the average citizen, but I think that the proposition advanced by the Liberal and National Country parties as a viable one ought to be debated publicly. The liberalism statement goes on to say: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties propose to ensure the States permanent access to revenue-raising through personal income tax. 
If one is able to read into this statement a proposal to use personal income tax as a substantive part of their federalism policy, if the Opposition parties are going to say that personal income tax will be the basis upon which some distributive powers will be given to the States, if they are going to continue to make available to the States the right to levy their own income tax, then it is clear that the average taxpayer in Australia will be paying a great deal more in personal income tax. 
I find it difficult to understand the strength of the argument and the length of the argument that has been produced here and in the other place, when the Opposition criticised the Government for the very sweeping reforms which are inherent in this legislation. The Government was criticised, particularly in the other place, for its failure at this stage to take up tax indexation. The Government recognises the desirability of tax indexation, but surely it has to be said that in this period of economic tightness it is beyond the Government's power. It would not matter whether there was a Labor government or a Liberal government in office at the moment; it would be beyond the powers of a government to introduce in the Budget at this time the new concepts of taxation indexation. The country just could not afford it. It is clear that if there were to be any change in the tax system involving indexation, it would be almost impossible to realise those objectives without its costing the income side of the Budget about $ 1,000m. 
The Opposition has been talking about supporting the principles of tax indexation. It has been talking about the principle of letting people retain sufficient of their income so that they can spend it in the private sector. It has been talking about cutting back public sector spending. I challenge the Opposition to the view that the Australian people do not want Australian Government funding to go in larger sums to the State and local governments but they do want larger sums of Commonwealth funding to go to the areas of education and public works in the total sense as well as to the improvement of the welfare programs. In point of fact, I find it ironical that honourable senators, time and time again particularly over these last few weeks when there is a tightening of money because of the Opposition's attitude to the Budget in denying us the expenditure funds, have risen to their feet and asked why money is not being available for particular activities in their areas or States or why more money is not being made available for particular public sector activities. 
Even in the local newspaper in my area, I read of Liberals complaining because the Government is cutting back on the Regional Employment Development scheme, because the Government is cutting back on funds that it has made available to the Australian Assistance Plan or because the Government is not meeting all of the demands of the local communities for additional sums. As late as last week there were statements made by Liberal Party candidates criticising the Australian Government for not making available sums in excess of $100,000 in the area of Sutherland for the purpose of carrying out some vital and important public facility works. It just does not make sense that we have Liberals at the lower level contradicting their brothers at the national level and, in fact, insisting upon funds being made available for public sector activities whilst their colleagues here at the national level are urging all the time for a reduction in income for the Australian Government and a cut in expenditure by the Australian Government. I think that we have argued at great length in the past about the need for the Australian Government to give even more funds to the States and to make even more funds available for local government. 
Only this week we passed the Local Government Grants Bill. That Bill made available $79. 9m to the 800 local government authorities. Honourable senators paid tribute to the fact that this expenditure for the second year in succession represents a whole new area of Australian Government involvement. I have never heard any honourable senators opposite suggest that we should be cutting back on the fourfold increase in expenditure in the area of education generally, both in the public sector and the private sector. The suggestion is always being made that we ought to be cutting back on income tax.  Mr Deputy President,  in your contribution to the debate you spoke at some length about the need to increase the reduction of  In  per cent on company taxation which is dealt with in the Income Tax Bill at present before the Senate. You said that this should be done in order to encourage private companies and to get some response from private sector activity. I say that you cannot have your cake and eat it too. On the one hand, we cannot be exceeding, respecting and considering the demands for more funds. Every State Premier, whether he is a Labor Premier or a Liberal Premier, has been consistently asking the Australian Government for more funds. We cannot supply these funds, we cannot talk about tax indexation and about giving more money back to the taxpayer when, in fact, the Australian taxpayer does not need more money, for instance, to buy a new motor car. I submit that the Australian taxpayer wants more money to be spent on better roads. If it were a question of whether the Australian taxpayers were to have more money in their pockets to be able to purchase new motor car at the present greatly increased price or having much better and safer roads on which to drive, I am sure that the overwhelming majority of Australians would opt for the alternative of, for instance, taking a year longer to purchase a motor vehicle in order that better roads could be provided. Better roads can be provided only from Australian Government expenditure. 

 Mr Deputy President, I would not seek to speak for the length of time that you did in order to debate these Bills. But I think something has to be said in order to put the record straight. You quoted from a document of the Australian Industry Development Association. I submit to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that you ought to look at the report which that Association submitted to your Government back in 1969 in which it referred to the fact that the rundown in manufacturing industry began in 1967. So when we came to power in 1 972, manufacturing industry was already in a very serious state of decline. No doubt, you can recall that your Government in 1972 recognised the need for some activity in that sector. Certain steps were taken in that Government's last Budget, the 1972-73 Budget, to try to get some private sector stimulation. It is wrong that the Opposition should suggest that everything that is wrong with this country, that every problem that is facing both the private and public sectors, is attributable to what has happened during the last 3 years and to the fact that we have had a change in government during that period. There is abundant evidence in all the reports- the Jackson Committee report, the Industries Assistance Commission reports and the AIDA comments- which have been consistently before governments over the last seven or eight years to indicate that there has been a natural decline in private sector activity in Australia. Even though the present Government has paid out hundreds of millions of dollars into private sector industry in the forms of incentives for export and investment allowances, in fact, the decline commenced in those years when your government,  Mr Deputy President,  was making available great sums of money and giving handouts to the private sector. 
It needs to be emphasised time and time again that the very simple solutions that the Opposition puts to the Senate and to the Australian people have very little substance in fact. The endeavours of members of the Opposition to try to suggest that these Bills do not go far enough do not bear any examination at all. In fact, the Bills deserve and warrant the enthusiastic support of the Opposition. Because they are an integral part of the Budget, I would hope that when the Opposition finally agrees to pass the 3 Income Tax Bills honourable senators opposite might reflect this weekend upon the need to adopt the same constructive attitude in terms of their voting powernot their speaking power- in relation to the Appropriation Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What aid, direct or indirect, has been offered or is proposed to be offered to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and to the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, to assist in the reconstruction of South Vietnam, after the victory of the forces of liberation this year. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. The Minister is aware that certain imports of iron and steel are subject to import licensing which will terminate on 3 1 December 1975. Could the Minister please advise the Senate whether there is any way in which importers can be assisted in the forward ordering of these products? 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers  in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate, in his capacity as former Leader of the Opposition in the Senate which was dissolved on 11 November 1975 and in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister in this chamber. Can the Minister inform the Senate at what time he received a communication indicating that the Senate should pass Appropriation Bills No. 1 and No. 2? Who asked him to approve of these Bills, considering the Senate had several times refused to pass the said Bills? Did the Minister have any prior knowledge of the dismissal of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  at the time of receiving the communication? Did the then caretaker Prime Minister or the Minister know of the proposed dissolution of the Senate at the time they heard the  President  suspend the sitting of the Senate at 2.24 p.m. on 11 November? Finally, did the Governor-General have any communication on this matter with the Minister on or before 1 1 November 1975? 
-I desire to be associated with the very generous remarks which have been made in the other place and here by the Government and the Opposition in respect of the passing of Chou En-lai, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China. I think it has been said by most of the world leaders that he was one of the great leaders of this century, in terms of his capacity to understand and to comprehend the aspirations and expectations of his own people. It is proper that we should offer our condolences at his very sad passing, when we have regard to his endeavours in the emancipation of his people, despite great sacrifices, over many, many years. 
It has to be remembered that as a very young man he was part of the famous Long March during which he with Chairman Mao Tse-tung retreated to the western perimeters of his country in order to develop a philosophy which, 20 years later, brought that group of people to the leadership of the country and, for the first time in many centuries, brought about a unified central government. 
I was fortunate to have a very brief meeting with him in the early 1950s and to respond to the tremendous personality of the man to which most world leaders subsequently have paid tribute as in the 1970s, some 20 years later, the world began to recognise in Chou En-lai a person of world stature who was associated with taking his country out of feudalism into the modern world. It is a matter for great regret that it took so long for the Western world to recognise the capacity of the modern China and the capacity of Chou En-lai. 
In 1955, for example, he was able even at that stage when there were many difficulties within his own country to go to Bandung and to associate himself with the anti-colonialist feeling of the rest of the world. Clearly he played a significant part in convincing even his own colleagues of the need to lead his country back into the family of nations. In those circumstances, he must be regarded as one of the significant men of the twentieth century. Without exception, every person who has had an opportunity to visit the People's Republic of China must pay tribute to his leadership and to him as an administrator and as a leader in all aspects of human activity including the great improvements in the living standards of the people of China. In all these achievements, Chou En-lai must be regarded as being a central part of that evolutionary as well as revolutionary movement. 
It is to the credit of those who rule the People's Republic of China and to Chou En-lai particularly that, on his election, the new Australian Prime Minister in one of the first public statements that he made dealt with the area of foreign affairs and stated that he intended to visit the People's Republic of China to see for himself the progress that has been made and to establish the normal and proper relationship that should exist among all countries. When the Australian Labor Party sought to do this in the 1 950s, it was one of the issues which caused great distress and division within our movement. Even up to 1972, many people had failed to understand the evolutionary movement that was taking place in the People's Republic of China. 
So I think it is proper that we should at this time join forces with all people throughout the world in offering our condolences to the ordinary people of China at the loss of a person who played such a significant part in the development of modern China. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of a statement made by  Mr Perkins  of Chrysler (Australia) Pty Ltd that the Minister has had discussions with  Mr Perkins  regarding the motor car industry? Will the Minister inform the Senate when these discussions took place? Did they take place at a time when the responsibility for the motor car industry was properly that of  Dr Cairns  when he was  Deputy  Prime Minister and after Government committees had had prolonged discussions with leaders of the Australian motor car industry? 
The Opposition naturally is opposing the motion moved by one of the newly-elected senators in relation to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech. Of course, one has only to listen to the debate to appreciate the sensitivity expressed by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack concerning the events of 1 1 November 1975. 1 think it has to be said that those events have polarised this country, that it will remain polarised and that the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Labor movement and progressive public opinion will not rest until such time as the real issues that were involved in the conspiracy of 1 975 are laid bare before the Australian people. 
I think it is part of our responsibility to probe constantly what prompted the events that took place on that fateful day and to make understood who were the main characters that were involved in the whole shameful episode. There is no point in editorial writers or individual honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber trying to lecture members of the Australian Labor Party about what their responsibilities should be to the parliamentary system when in fact we have found that the events of last year have seriously undermined public confidence as well as the confidence of the Australian Labor Party in the whole of the system. The country is still divided on and sensitive about the particular issues and every member of the Australian Labor 
Party in this place will not rest until the truth of the events of last year is unearthed. 
When two or three intrepid journalists in the United States of America sought to determine what had happened in the famous event that has come to be described as Watergate the same conservative forces in that country in the media, Congress and public office endeavoured to silence those who were seeking to unravel that mystery. Just as Watergate had its effect in opening a whole new page in American public life insofar as there as now been a penetration into other areas of government activity, of corruption and of undue influences being brought to bear, so it behoves members of the Australian Labor Party to persist in their endeavours in this respect in this country until we know what are the facts and until we know why it came to be that we had the events that were spoken of by  Senator James  McClelland and that were a part of the historic journey on which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack took us this evening. Until we know the facts I can give an assure that we will keep probing on this matter. 

 Mr President, it is the usual practice in such a debate for honourable senators to express felicitations to those who have been elected to high office and it is in order to welcome the newlyelected senators and to congratulate those who have made their maiden speeches as well as, of course, to extend to you and the  Chairman  of Committees congratulations on reaching the office you and he now hold. But what has to be said and certainly what the newly-elected senators have to learn is that what one says in this place has very little relevance, very little value, in terms of parliamentary democracy, in terms of one's contribution to the maintenance of parliamentary democracy and in terms of one's understanding of the way in which our society operates. As honourable senators endeavour to persuade the members of this chamber of the truth or otherwise or the objectivity or otherwise of their contributions to the debates, the whole exercise is futile when in point of fact the decisions already have been reached in some other place and we have to rely upon trying to present a point of view that might reach beyond the 4 walls of the Senate chamber to a lone journalist who sits up in the Press gallery listening to the debates and who probably writes stories which are never printed unless they have some sinister or melodramatic tone. Of course, if one were to rise in the Parliament and accuse a Minister of being a pervert or apply some such similar descriptive characterisation to him, one could imagine that this would be the sort of story that would be published in the newspapers the next day. I am referring to news sensationalism. The new senators will come to realise that the value of their contributions is very limited in the success of the whole parliamentary operation. Of course, this raises the question of where power really lies in Australia. Does it really lie in the Parliament? Does it really lie in the Senate? What has a political party got to do to be elected and to carry out its responsibilities to those people who put it into public office? 
On 2 previous occasions at the opening of Parliament, prior to the Governor-General 's Speech in the Parliament last week, we heard contributions from the Governor-General, which expressed not the view of the Governor-General but the view of the Prime Minister of the day. That speech can be described as a hedonistic speech in tone and objective. We were seeking to bring into legislation policies to create a more happy and equal society. But we found how limited were our opportunities to do that even within the parliamentary system. We had obstruction placed in our way. On 2 occasions we had to face not only general elections but also double dissolutions of the Parliament. One is entitled to ask, when dealing with the speeches of a Governor-General in relation to which we spend countless hours in preparation and oratory in this chamber, what really is the value of all of that activity when, in fact, power resides outside the Parliament. There are other centres of power outside the Parliament, centres that clearly are more powerful than the Parliament. I refer to the board rooms of the big industries and centres of commerce, the board rooms of the big media centres that own not only the newspapers but also the television and radio stations. I refer to the power that resides in the judiciary and, of course, the power that clearly is now accepted by honourable senators and unfortunately by the community generally to reside in the representative of the Crown. 
I put it to honourable senators that what we are really talking about are the events of 1 1 November. It is a matter of political judgment and a political view point as to whether the estimation of honourable senators opposite was correct or whether our estimation of the action that the Governor-General took was correct. It is a political difference. Honourable senators opposite say that he had justification for taking the action that he took. We say that he did not and that is a political judgment which the GovernorGeneral exercised. It will be argued for a long time whether there was a justification. We say from our side of the Senate that there was no justification. Honourable senators opposite say that there was. I put it to honourable senators that we are entitled to say that the precedent has now been established that the Governor-General can act as he sees the situation, whether or not there is justification. We say that there was none and honourable senators opposite say that there was. We say that the principle or precedent has been established that the Governor-General has the power to dismiss an elected government. 
Hypothetically we could say that the National Country Party could have a major division of opinion with the Liberal Party of Australia. The Liberal Party could still have a majority as they do in the House of Representatives. But in this place the Liberal Party does not have a majority. In the terms of some public disputation a Governor-General in the future could make a decision that he considers, in fact, the circumstances require him to resolve a particular political difference of opinion. We say that the Governor-General had no valid reason. Senators Shiel, Baume,  Sir Magnus  Cormack and a whole number of others hold the other point of view. The regrettable feature is that I believe the Australian people did not understand the issues, just as they would not have understood them if they had been in the United States at the time of the start of the Watergate inquiry. It has to be said that if the American people had been asked to vote on the matter at that time they probably would not have cast an affirmative vote for such an inquiry. We say that just because the Australian people gave an endorsement, that does not make the position right. 
In point of fact, if we are to believe the arguments of Government senators, there is no appeal against the decision and we are not entitled to express our point of view here or anywhere else. We are being criticised for this by honourable senators on the Government side  and by the editorial writers. We are told that we should behave ourselves. The rules have been broken and the conventions have been torn up. The so-called reserve power which nobody had ever spoken about in either House of the Parliament in this country before now is suddenly elevated to be a major principle. All of a sudden we find not only honourable senators but even those who write books on the Constitution trying to establish the supremacy of the Senate as being more important than the House of Representatives which, under the whole Westminster system and under the American system, is the popular House in which governments are made or broken. 
I well recall a lady writing a letter to the Sydney newspapers in the early pan of the election campaign asking when we would know who would be the government on election night if the government that won the majority in the lower House was not recognised as the Government prior to the election. She made a valid point by saying that we really find little significance in the actual election results if we do not accept the fact that it is in the House of Representatives- in the popular House- where governments are elected. I will deal with the Governor-General's own understanding of his role in public life in Australia at greater length at a later stage. I do not want to deal with it this evening. I accept the people's verdict; make no bones about that. The people have made a decision. That does not make the decision right and it does not say that they cannot be enlightened about the constitutional issues, about the morality of the decision or about any of the other subjective factors involved. I give to this Parliament an assurance that everybody in the Labor Party is aggrieved about the decisions that were taken on 1 1 November 1975. One is entitled, based on all the objective evidence that is available in regard to the activities of that period and the degree in which other countries exercised influence and interest in the internal affairs of other countries, to examine in more detail those events of 1975. After all,  Senator Withers  is on record, within 5 months of the Parliament being assembled in early 1973, as saying that the Opposition- that is the Liberal and Country Parties- sat down and conspired to bring about the defeat of the Government. Within a year or so that nearly became a matter of reality when the first double dissolution took place in 1974. Of course, we know that  Mr Snedden  was removed from office because of his failure to consummate the coup when the Senate again was used, in April 1 974, to force the Whitlam Government to the polls. 
I do not dispute substantially the journey into the past by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. In point of fact, I have here a copy of  Quadrant.  I do not think anybody can accuse a journal of that nature of leaning towards the Labor Party or of adopting a radical posture. In it there is an article by Allan Fraser. Some may say that because he is a former Labor member of Parliament perhaps he has a somewhat jaundiced point of view. Leaving that aside and accepting the fact that he has written a pretty straight sort of article, I find that his summary of the events of the day pretty well fit the picture painted by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. It is interesting that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack never referred to the most relevant portions of the events of that day.  Mr Allan  Fraser talks about the fact that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and  Mr Whitlam  met and both stuck to their guns. He said that they did not give way at 9 a.m. on 1 1 November.  Mr Allan  Fraser goes on to speak about  Mr Malcolm  Fraser reporting to his colleagues.  Mr Allan  Fraser says: 
The general opinion-  this can be checked out in any of the articles that were written at the time- 
. including myself, hardened that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was now in serious trouble and must soon agree to a Senate climbdown or face a pre-Christmas half Senate election. 
That was the opinion of the hardened people who sit up in the Press Gallery, who help to mould public opinion, who are not fools and who know the Canberra scene probably as well as, if not better than, any of us. That was their opinion. That was the opinion about which  Senator James  McClelland spoke. It was the opinion about which  Mr Whitlam  has spoken on a number of occasions. The article goes on to state: 

 Mr Fraser told his colleagues 
I interpolate and say 'in the Caucus room'-  to trust him, and new interest was aroused- 
Let honourable senators disagree with what I am saying-   . . when it was learned that he had added that the situation would be fully unfolded within 24 hours. 
Of course, it added significance to the Vice Regal notices in the  Canberra Times  and the  Sydney Morning Herald.  I hope honourable senators will forgive me for quoting only from the  Canberra Times.  The Vice Regal notes, which are of course a relic of the old days, in the  Canberra Times  of 11 November 1975 stated: 'The GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, received the Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, at Admiralty House yesterday morning. Later  Sir John  entertained  Sir Garfield  at luncheon at Admiralty House'. It appears that the Chief Justice spent several hours with the Governor-General the day before. We had  Mr Malcolm  Fraser telling his colleagues, who were getting restive, to trust him. We all know that several of them were threatening not to support the denial of Supply. Let me go to another part of this very interesting article, in which  Mr Allan  Fraser says: 
And I heard Ken Begg of the ABC report that he had heard from an undisclosed source to be ready for a dramatic announcement in an hour or two. 
This was prior to the Governor-General summoning either the Prime Minister or the usurper Prime Minister to meet him at Government House. 
I am sure that the details to which I am referring are not recorded in  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's brief historical account. Of course, there can be no doubt about many of the things that went on in that period. I recall reading an article in a publication called  Nucleonics Week  which was published in the United States on 6 November and which was received in Australia on 12 November. One surely must assume that it was written, published and printed several days before 6 November. The article talks about the problems of uranium supplies for a given number of American companies and refers to what will happen 'when the elections take place in Australia in five or six weeks time', which virtually meant 13 December. One is entitled in those circumstances to say that there is a prima facie case for the Labor Party to probe a little more deeply than we have been able to do so far. We should examine the whole sordid story of the interference in the internal affairs of other countries by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States. I am not making any assertions. The facts are before the American Senate. Inquiries are being conducted officially by the American Senate. Already admissions have been made in the depositions of those inquiries that people involved in that organisation have brought about the overthrow of elected governments and assassinations of elected leaders. One is entitled, therefore, to raise very sharply whether there is any relationship, when Australia is regarded as a treasure house in terms of its mineral resources, natural gas and all the other resources that we have in this country. 
We know that during World WarII we were marked down by the Japanese because of the great potential that existed within this country. It is not outside the realms of possibility that there are people who were concerned about the development of the democratic tendencies within Australia and about the feelings that existed within our country for Australians to run their own affairs and for Australians to own the great natural resources in respect of which many people such as  Sir Philip  Baxter, have already expressed very strong views.  Sir Philip  Baxter speaks of the facts that our known uranium resources are worth $ 18,000m and that it will cost only about $6,000m to mine and enrich that uranium to be sold overseas as a new powerful energy source. There is a tremendous profit margin.  Sir Philip  Baxter, a former  Chairman  of the 
Australian Atomic Energy Commission, has suggested that $ 12,000m profit is involved in the uranium resources of our country. One therefore is entitled to look a little more closely at the events which cut off in one swoop the attempts that were being made by a decent Australian Government to try to maintain Australian equity in our natural resources. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr President, the Senate is debating the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's speech. Last evening I tried to indicate to honourable senators on the Government side why the Australian Labor Party, and indeed the Australian Labor movement, were dissatisfied with the events that took place in 1975, particularly on 1 1 November 1975. 1 indicated that, for its part, and for the part of progressive opinion in Australia, the Labor Party will not rest until the real truth of the conspiracy that existed last year is brought under public examination. When one listens to the speeches of honourable senators opposite, one realises how much they fail to understand the psychology of the Australian people, as indeed they fail to understand the philosophy of the Labor movement itself. 
There is no question but that during last year there was a well orchestrated campaign which began soon after  Mr Fraser  deposed  Mr Snedden  on the basis of eradicating the instability that had developed in Australian politics. Nevertheless, steps were taken to ensure that certain events would develop, and a campaign was planned which finally came to fruition on 1 1 November. It was a dangerous step that was taken, and it was a step that did more to damage the fabric of democracy in this country than 50 years of propaganda by any revolutionary group at all. Great numbers of people - 
Honourable senators opposite laugh, and that indicates how they fail to understand the psychology of the Australian people. Unquestionably confidence in the whole of the democratic process in this country has been shaken. When one considers in more detail some of the questions that have been raised by Government senators in their contributions to this debate- I will pick out only a small number of them- one can only wonder at the points of view that they have expressed.  Senator Sheil  displayed an unbelievable and incredible naivete about the way in which our society operates and in fact attempted to take us back to the simple philosophy of Adam Smith under which every man looked after himself. He made the claim that big governments are the reason we are faced with economic problems. He seems to believe that these problems exist only in countries like Australia. This theory just does not bear examination. The biggest countries in the world, such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China and the United States of America, have completely different economic problems from those of the smaller countries, such as Ireland and Chile, which have less government in terms of the way in which the lives of the people are determined by government actions. Countries in which government intervention is almost nonexistent have the highest rates of inflation and unemployment. Then  Senator Sheil  went on to make the most incredible statement. He said: 
I do not believe the Government has a huge role to play in the Heritage Commission. 
That statement indicates his naivete and his failure to comprehend the struggle for the conservation and preservation of the Australian environment. For heaven's sake, in Sydney and Melbourne all the historic buildings would have been pulled down but for the action of the people. Finally governments at both Commonwealth and State level were forced to bring in legislation ensuring that things were preserved in our community. Of course,  Senator Shell's  statements were an indication of his adherence to the backward philosophy of the Workers' Party. 

 Senator Missen took the Opposition to task because he believes that in the last 3 years the Labor Government had been too busy in the legislative area. He said that something like 220 or 230 Bills had been considered by the Parliament and that this was too many. I would have expected  Senator Missen  to have some understanding of the role of the reformer, how difficult it is and how hard people who believe in reform will work in order to implement the things that they believe should be put on the statute book. He went on to say that the previous Government had argued that there had been something obstructive about the then Opposition. Surely he will not deny that 2 double dissolutions within a 3-year period and the rejection by the Senate of some basic pieces of legislation was some form of obstruction? 

 Senator Missen said that as a result of all the events of last year he thought that the Constitution ought to be considered to see whether or not some changes ought to be made so that those sorts of events could be prevented in the future. So having won the game, he does not want to play it any more according to the old standards of former Government senators. Having brought about the circumstances through which the Liberal and National Country Parties profited- in my view cheats should never prosper although in fact that is precisely what happened last yearnow  Senator Missen  says: 'Let us change the rules'. Let me say on behalf of the whole Labor movement that as far as we are concerned that is just not on. Like  Senator Jim  Cavanagh, and indeed many of my colleagues, I will be spending less time in the next 3 years on this great charade that is known as Parliament and more on tackling where the real power exists within the Australian community. 
I reject the attempts that have been made by Opposition senators. Opposition senators have been cajoled by  Senator Rae,  admonished by  Senator Missen,  threatened by  Senator Sheil,  lectured by  Senator Baume  and traduced by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to give up the desire to try to rectify the wrong and to explain to the Australian people. I believe that it is important for the Opposition to unravel the mysteries of 1975, and to do that I do not think I can go to a better source than the Governor-General himself. A person of his calibre, a person whose word Government supporters now believe to be law, a person who they believe can do no wrong and in fact should not be criticised, has himself made some very important pronouncements on the record. The first one to which I want to refer was made- significantly- on 1 1 November 1974, just one year prior to the infamous events of last year. What did the Governor-General say? I want to deal at some length with the underlying philosophy of the Governor-General. He said: 
I believe that there should nowadays be a continuing public debate about ethical questions in relation to public office because such a debate must inevitably bring to the surface precise questions about departures from, or variations in, traditional standards. 
Hear, hear! ', says the Opposition. 
If there are to be departures from traditional ethical standards applicable to holders of public office then it is desirable for those departures to be explicitly enunciated, debated and understood. 
The Opposition is in pretty good company when it believes that there ought to be a wider public examination of the events of 1975. The Governor-General went on to advance his point  of view by talking about the canons of judicial ethics. He says: 
A Judge should uphold the integrity and independence of the judiciary; 
A Judge should avoid impropriety and the appearance of impropriety in all of his activities; 
A Judge should regulate his extra-judicial activities to minimise the risk of conflict with his judicial duties. 
Are we not entitled to ask: Did  Sir Garfield  Barwick as the Chief Justice carry out those canons, those standards, when he spoke unofficially, with no authority and without the knowledge of the Minister, the MinistersinCouncil, the Prime Minister and those of the Executive Council, when he was not entitled to do so. He did this when both the GovernorGeneral and he were on the public record as saying that that should not take place. 
The Governor-General continues by quoting the point of view of another person. In expressing the point of view of another person, the Governor-General, one can assume, deals with that person's point of view as his own. That view was that:  . . judges obtained the respect of the people by confining themselves to their true judicial work and not inquiring, when asked, into political questions or into administrative or other issues which could not result in an enforceable judgment ... 
He goes on to say:  . . when all is said and done, politics involves the pursuit of power while ethics impose restraints on the use of power. 
In another place the Governor-General went on to make some other observations. I refer to his contributions in a speech that he made at the Union Club in Sydney. It was not at the Melbourne Club but at the Union Club- not the real power centre of Australia, which everyone recognises is the Melbourne Club, but the Union Club in Sydney, which is not of such significance. The speech was delivered on 3 April 1975. I quote from the official record of his speech. What does the Governor-General say when he talks about his constitutional position? He states: 
Everyone knows that the Governor-General must act upon the advice of his Ministers, his constitutional advisers, when that advice is finally and formally given to him. 
If the Governor-General had some doubts about the constitutionality and the problems of the impasse which had developed in the latter half of last year, he should have called for advice from his Ministers. He should not have sought the advice of the Chief Justice. It is worth remembering, honourable senators, that the Chief Justice holds no particular position in the High Court other than as the administrative head who allocates responsibility. That is the total of his responsibilities. He has no greater power than the other six or seven members who comprise the full High Court. He is only the adjutant, as it were, who decides which judge or judges shall sit on various cases. The position of Chief Justice has no substance greater than that of any other member of the High Court. So, if the GovernorGeneral wanted an opinion, why did he not consult all of the members of the High Court? In fact, I am led to believe that a majority of the members of the High Court does not agree with the sort of advice which, it is said, the Chief Justice proffered to the Governor-General. If that is the position, it shows that the Governor-General acted improperly, as indeed did the representative of the High Court. 
In another speech which he made on 28 February 1975 the Governor-General explained the role of a Governor-General. I make no criticism of the fact that the present GovernorGeneral is an active Governor-General and has sought to explain to various audiences at meetings to which he has been invited what the role of the Governor-General is in society, whether it is a rubber stamp job or whether the GovernorGeneral has a greater responsibility. These are the words of the Governor-General, not my words. The Governor-General said: 
The Governor-General acts on advice but he can question it, seek further information, and assess what he is being advised to do. He can obtain the reasons for what he is being asked to do and make suggestions about them - 
The next statement out of the GovernorGeneral's own mouth is the crunch in this context:  but he must not get into political controversy, bc partisan or try to act politically himself. He must not try to manipulate the political process. 
This is that we have been saying. This is exactly what the Governor-General has done. He has denigrated his high office. I surely do not need to recall to the minds of honourable senators the very difficult economic conditions that existed in the United Kingdom when  Mr Heath  was in trouble some  Vh  years or 3 years ago.  Mr Heath  did not command an absolute majority on the floor of the House of Commons. A slow down was taking place in industry. The Queen did not intervene. She did not take any part. The fact is that all sorts of suggestions are being made to the effect that the Queen herself was most displeased at the way in which her representative in Australia, the Governor-General, acted in the circumstances at the end of last year. So, I believe that in the light of all of the events of last year we are entitled to wonder: What were the real circumstances that prompted the calling of a double dissolution in November of last year? 
I move on to a question that I raised last night, not because I am in any position to affirm what I say, other than to traverse the ground of the interference in the internal affairs of other countries by the Cental Intelligence Agency of the United States of America. In the current inquiries that are being undertaken by a Committee of the United States Senate, admissions have been made by high ranking officers of that organisation which indicate that the CIA has not only seriously interfered in the internal affairs of other countries but also has misled the  President  of the United States of America, the United States Congress and in fact withheld information. Even some 10 years or 1 1 years ago when there was an attempt to obtain detente between the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A., we remember that a U2 plane was shot down and recall the effect that that incident had on the thaw that was developing in the cold war in that period. 
Admissions have been made before the United States Senate Committee that the CIA was responsible for the murder of  President  Diem of South Vietnam, a  President  of whom all of those on the other side of the Senate in the then Government, which was of the same political complexion as the present Government, expressed their support when that Government involved Australia in the Vietnam war in 1964. That  President  of South Vietnam was not a radical or a militant. In fact, he was a person generally expressing the philosophy of the Conservatives. Then there was the  President  of the Dominican Republic,  Mr Trujillo.  He could be put in the same philosophical category as  President  Diem of South Vietnam. Both of those Presidents were murdered because, in the view of the CIA, the interests of the U.S. would be best served by their removal from public office. 
We now read how the popularly and properly elected Premier of the Congo, now described as Zaire, Patrice Lumumba, was shot in cold blood after being kidnapped by forces under the orders of the CIA. We now learn that General Schneider, a personal friend of the democratically elected President of Chile, President Allende who was Chief of the General Staff in Chile and also a constitutionalist, was murdered following his abduction by agents paid and encouraged by the CIA. It is interesting to look at an article that appeared in the Sydney  Sunday Telegraph  on 29 May 1960. That article was headed:  The Frightening World of Allen Dulles.  The relevant pan, which I believe is worthy of examination, states: 
Operatives do not necessarily have to be American citizens. CIA has neutrals and citizens of satellites amongst its agents. . . . 
I think we are entitled to draw the conclusion that there are people in this country who operate in that category. Whether they played any part in these events we do not know at this stage. When I go back and read now the accounts of the McCarthy period in the United States in the 1950s, I see that the truth is finally coming out. I am one of those who believe that ultimately the truth will come out even in respect of the shameful events of last year. We do not care how long it takes. We do not care how deeply we probe. We do not care whom we hurt, because- this is the message which honourable senators on the Government side and the conservatives in this country have to get- we are determined to unravel the mysteries of last year. When I think of the reasonable contributions which Senators Missen and Rae made to this debate, I am led to remind them that they cannot expect to profit from a conspiracy. We will do what we can to see that that profit is turned into a loss. 
We are debating the Governor-General's Speech. I shall deal more specifically with the document, which I believe is disgraceful and disreputable. It was written by the Prime Minister. In it he seeks to justify his election victory and to turn back the clock as far as Australia's social welfare program is concerned. It is to the credit of the  president  of the Australian Newspapers Council,  Mr Ranald  Macdonald, that he has severely criticised the newspapers of Australia and the newspaper proprietors who let  Mr Fraser  off the hook during the last election campaign. I shall refer to some of the inaccuracies which exist in the Speech. It refers to: 
. the worst prolonged inflation in the nation's history. 
Well, 1950, 195 1 and 1952 were the first 3 years of the Menzies Administration after the defeat of the Labor Government in 1949. The inflation rate collectively over those 3 years was 46 per cent. It was 1 1.1 per cent in 1950, 25. 1 per cent in 1 95 1 and 9.8 per cent in 1 952. But what was it in 1973, 1974 and 1975? It was 13.2 per cent, 16.25 per cent and 13 per cent, which is a total of 42 percent. 
We challenge the philosophy upon which this document is written and particularly statements which do not accord with the facts. He- I am talking of the Prime Minister because, let us face it, it is his document, not the Governor-General 's document- goes on to state: 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities Tor the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provision, are dependent on people being free  and encouraged to achieve their best. The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
One only has to read the Henderson report to learn about the disadvantaged. I do not want to quote from it, because time will not permit me to do so. I think it was  Senator Missen  who made some reference to it. Ail the inadequacies which existed as a result of 23 long years of conservative rule in this country were beginning to be overcome by the legislative program- which  Senator Missen  said was much too long- of the last 3 years. The Prime Minister goes on in the document to state: 
At the root of the economic crisis is a steadily increasing tax burden required to finance, at the expense of the private sector, an ever-growing public sector. 
That is crap. It is arrant nonsense and lies. I have here the latest document which has been published in relation to taxation and the gross domestic product of all the countries which go to make up the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Of the 2 1 countries which make up that organisation, of which we are part, where does Australia come in relation to direct and indirect taxation? It comes twentieth out of 2 1 countries in relation to taxation and the gross domestic product. The countries range from the Netherlands, with a figure of 31.48 per cent, down to Australia, whose taxation as a proportion of the gross domestic product is 12.99 per cent. Yet we have this man,  Mr Fraser,  who was part of this whole sordid and sorry deal of last year, now attempting to convince the Australian people that our taxation in respect of our gross domestic product is out of relationship and, in fact, that is what is creating the economic difficulties in our country. 
I now refer to a comparison of growth of per capita Federal, State and local government taxation. Again, in another part of the Speech  Mr Fraser  makes reference to unlegislated tax increases. The facts, which can be provided to any member of the Government parties, are that in the period 1948-49 to 1974-75 Federal tax increased by 738 per cent. It so happens that average weekly earnings increased by precisely that percentage- 738 per cent. Yet, when we examine the taxation increases which took place in the State and local government sphere we find that they come to 1 ,576 per cent, or about double the other figure. We are asked to believe that the Speech is expressing the point of view of the Australian Prime Minister. On 14 March 1961, when, as honourable senators might recall there were some difficulties for the then conservative Government because it almost lost the election,  Mr Fraser  was criticised in the Parliament. At page 174 of the  Hansard  of 14 March  Mr Fraser  is reported as saying: 
The honourable gentleman, together with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Calwell),  in pan at least said that most of our present difficulties had been caused by this Government ... I prefer to argue-I believe that the facts support me-that the difficulties confronting Australia now are caused by events that have occurred outside Australia, and, secondly, that imports- or a flood of imports, to use the term adopted by the Leader of the Opposition- are a symptom and not a cause of our present problems. 
Let us look at how the present Prime Minister handles the truth. I have here an official handout from the Federal Secretariat of the Liberal Party dated 25 November. It deals with this vexed question of inflation. I say that the Government 's policy on financial matters needs a lot more examination than is taking place in the Senate today. This official document states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  said today he had received official information which forecast that Australia during 1976 will suffer the second highest rate of inflation amongst the major western nations. 
The following day that was contradicted by  Mr Hayden.  So the OECD was asked to comment. On  AM  Malcolm Downing stated: 
OECD sources say there is no draft as such in existence yet . . . 
Of course, the fact that this was headlines in the  Australian  would not surprise any member of the Australian Labor Party. In the 7 o'clock news on the ABC the following day- on 27 November- I heard  Mr Fraser  say in response to a question that he thought that it was official information, but when he was pressed by his interviewer he said that he had read it in the newspapers. What a very fine Prime Minister we have in a man who tells the Australian people via the Liberal Party s secretariat that it was in fact from an official document and then says that it was from a Treasury document and finally has to admit to the Australian people that he lied! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. Before calling  Senator Tehan  I indicate to the Senate that this will be the honourable senator's first speech in the Senate and I invite honourable senators to extend the traditional courtesies. I now call  Senator Tehan. 
Does the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Affairs acknowledge that the establishment of a new university in the Albury-Wodonga decentralisation project is regarded by the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation and by the local community as vital to the success of the scheme? Is it a fact that, because of the policy of the Government to cut back on public spending, it is now proposed to suspend the provision of a university for that region? Will not such a decision, expected to be made by the Universities Commission, seriously undermine confidence in the entire Albury-Wodonga complex, delay private investment initiative and harm the concept of decentralisation? 
I wish to say a few words about both the motion and the amendment. I think the fact the Senate is debating the committee system is a tribute to the success of the committee system in the Senate. I agree fairly substantially with some of the remarks that have been made by  Senator Durack  about the pioneering role that the Senate has played in the whole review system of the Senate's committees, particularly those that are the subject of the motion and the amendment. Having pioneered the way I do not think we ought to adopt a dog in the manger attitude and not extend that experience to those other members of the Parliament in the House of Representatives so that they may join us and have the experience that we have enjoyed since the Senate took the rather important and momentous step some years ago of establishing this very important part of the review responsibility of the Senate. I think that previously the Senate saw itself purely as another chamber deliberating upon matters and making decisions based on the debate within the chamber. 
I think it is agreed that the establishment of the committee system was an evolutionary process. The Labor Party and in particular former  Senator Murphy-  he was joined by some of his opponents in this chamber- saw the merit in the proposal to set up a committee system and were able to convince the Senate, on the second or third occasion on which the proposal was advanced, of the value of introducing this form of procedure as a review responsibility. Having said that, I think that it is wrong for Government senators to suggest that Opposition senators want to extend that procedure to embrace members of the House of Representatives because we want to belittle the role of the Senate or pander to the House of Representatives or take any other course of action which denies the essential role and the essential experience that honourable senators had. After all, I think that  Senator Missen  and  Senator Durack  would agree that the finest hour of Senate committees could be related to the work that was done on the Family Law Bill. 
Of course one can understand the reason for the belief that Senate committees should be maintained as separate identities. As a senator who has worked on Senate committees and has been fortunate enough to have been  chairman  of a Senate committee, as well as occupying a somewhat similar role as  deputy chairman  of the Joint Committee on Prices and  chairman  of one of the sub-committees of that Committee, I can see the value of both arguments. I can see the value of the activities of joint committees and of a Senate committee acting in its own right. Our amendment, which we ask the Senate to consider, should be seen not as an endeavour in any way to belittle the independent role of the Senate but rather as part of the evolution of the committee system being applied to the Parliament itself. 
The Parliament agreed to set up the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System because of the experience gained during the previous 3 years. For that reason, a decision was taken last year to establish a committee to review the committee system. We had reached the situation where public servants were being called before a committee of the Senate and then before a joint committee which had been established with somewhat similar terms of reference. 
There was a duplication in the provision of time and resources because of the duality of the terms of reference. It is in the light of that experience, and not because of any ulterior reason or purpose that Government senators might believe the Leader of the Labor Party or any individual member of the Labor Party might have, that the Opposition is supporting the amendment that is before the Senate. It would be ludicrous to have the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence both considering the matter, for example, of Indonesia. Both Committees would call experts from the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence and other public officials. The whole fabric of the committee system would surely be affected and damaged if, perchance, we had the situation where a Senate committee, in its review responsibilities, made a finding which was different from that of a joint committee. 
It is true that in the life of this present Parliament that is not likely to happen. But it was certainly a possibility during the life of the previous Parliament. We would make fools of ourselves both in the Senate and in the House of Representatives should such a state of affairs come about. I do not know why the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has taken the unusual step of dropping from the list of committees set out in the motion the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, of which I was  Chairman  in the last Parliament. I hope that it is purely a technical omission and that he will agree to insert the name of this Committee in the motion. My colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition, also seems to have made a technical omission and has left out of the amendment reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
I put it to the Senate quite seriously that I had no part in determining the original resolution to set up the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, and certainly no part to play- other than to vote on the proposal- in giving to that Committee the responsibility to deal with estate duties. Honourable senators may recall that after a great amount of deliberation the Committee presented to the Senate a report which was adopted and which some of the States have now taken into consideration in framing their particular legislation. That Committee was concluding its deliberations. In point of fact, a month or so before the Parliament was dissolved, as a result of a year's activity and of hearing evidence from industry and commerce generally, we had reached the stage where the  Chairman  had the report of the Committee for his consideration, before sending it to the other members of the Committee. 
I have paid tribute to the members of the Committee,  Senator Wood, Senator Laucke  and former  Senator Laurie,  who were then members of the Opposition, who assisted us in making a real in-depth study of the whole vexed question of Government assistance to industry. Because of the interest in local government of  Senator Wood, Senator Devitt  and myself it was our intention, perhaps in the life of the next Parliament when we completed our work on the question of Government assistance to industry, to make an examination of the question of funding for local government. I am sure that my colleagues from New South Wales would agree with me that it is a subject that needs a great deal of investigation having regard to the particular problems that exist in the major States. I think it is a question of the Senate looking at the amendment not as having any party political implications but as being a genuine desire, on the basis of the experience and the evolution of the Senate committees, to have a number of committees in which the legislative role is examined by both the House of Representatives and the Senate. That work needs to be done in the way in which it has been carried out by the Senate in the past. Of course, never at any stage does the amendment seek to deny to the Senate in its independent capacity its role to set up a specific committee, should that ever eventuate. 
I hope the Senate will take into consideration that the reason that we set up the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary System and the reason we are putting forward this amendment is, in point of fact, that a proliferation of committees was beginning. That point could be checked with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, because I am sure that before he was replaced by  Senator O  'Byrne as  President  of the Senate, he was being pressed by officers of the Senate and by the Public Service about the real problem of the Public Service making available its officers to give the sort of expert evidence that was required by the committees that were operating in the Senate. We hope that the Senate will look at the amendment in that light and not in the way that has been suggested by one or two Government senators, namely, that this amendment is fulfilling some sort of a wish by some particular personality within the Opposition Party. 
The Senate is debating 2 simple Bills. One is designed to amend the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act of 1956-1973 and the other is designed to permit the appointment of an additional judge as a result of the passage of the first Bill. I think it has to be said that the purpose of the legislation is to put into effect a decision that was made by the previous Government and, with minor amendments, a decision carried into effect by the new Government. I suppose that in a certain sense we are probably indebted to  Senator Harradine  for the long historical survey of the Australian Industrial Court. We are probably indebted to him that he refurbished  Senator Wright  and therefore brought some humour into the debate. I am just wondering what was the purpose of giving something of a biographical background of the judges in the 
Court. The last two honourable senators who have taken part in this debate, by their contributions, probably have presented a case for paying overtime to the judges in this jurisdiction, because of what has happened under both the previous Government and the present Government. 
Be that as it may, I think that whether the judges have worked so many hours or not or whether in fact they have been placed in this jurisdiction or not, the fact is that this Bill seeks to appoint one of those judges for the important task of acting as Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I should have thought that, having regard to the complexities of the modern industrial arbitration system and the hundreds of awards, to which these judges give attention from time to time and the demands which governments make upon the time and the energy of the judges in that jurisdiction, we would have given more thought and time to the factors which were in the mind of the previous Government when we sought to appoint  Mr Justice  Woodward to this important position of Director-General of out Intelligence Organisation. 
I shudder for those unfortunate people who regard the reading of the Senate  Hansard  with any sort of relish, having listened to the last couple of speakers in the debate on this particular Bill. I do not think any attempt has been made to grapple with the philosophy upon which the previous Government acted when it made the decision which this Government has seen fit to follow. We all know that some 6 months ago  Mr Whitlam  decided that the time had arrived for the appointment of a person from the judiciary to this position. That person happened to be a member of the Industrial and Arbitration Court. I think it is established clearly in the public mind that we of the Labor movement believe that the person who occupies this important position should remain a member of the judiciary. I do not suggest- and I am sure a lot of people in the Australian community do not suggest- that the mere appointment of a person from the judiciary will guarantee that the intelligence organisations will operate in a manner in which they should -in the manner which was obviously in the mind of the Government in 1 949 when it established the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Certainly I see that the objective of the appointment is to neutralise the political involvement of our principal security organisations in the legitimate area of political activity. That is a far-sweeping statement. But I think it has to be said, on the basis of experience during the whole post-war period that it is essential that the person who occupies this important position should be a person trained in the art of the law and a person having some respect for the rights of the ordinary citizen. That is how we of the Opposition see, and how we as a Government last year when the suggestion was made saw, the suggested appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward to this very sensitive post of Director-General of ASIO. 
I think one is entitled to say that in the intervening years from 1 949 when  Mr Justice  Reid was appointed to this office, appointments were made which permitted the Organisation to go in directions that were not in the best interests of either the community or of the Australian Parliament. I think it is essential when we are dealing with legislation concerning the Australian Security Intelligence Organization that the civil rights of the individuals are maintained as a vital principle. It is interesting to reflect on the fact that in 1949 it was the American State Department that suggested to the Australian Government that there was a need to establish an intelligence organisation in Australia that would be able to have passed to it information which would be of value from the American point of view and in the interests of the Australian people. It is interesting to look at the subsequent course of events and at what happened to the principal intelligence organisation in the United States and the experiences of the American people as a result of the activities of that organisation. At this very moment the American Government has reached the point where it is endeavouring to democratise the intelligence organisations so far as the rights of the ordinary people of that country are concerned. It is interesting to consider the passage of the Freedom of Information Act in America and to consider what that means in terms of the democratic rights of a great many of the activists in the political movements in that country. 
It is clear that last year it was in the mind of the then Prime Minister, when this legislation was drafted, that it should follow the direction taken by the United States. I think it has to be stressed that the person who is to take on this important task will have to place more emphasis upon the democratic processes so far as political activity is concerned in this country. In fact, I think the principle should be established firmly that the security organisation should remain a servant of the Australian people and of the Parliament and not just of the government of the particular day. I think that is a very important principle which 1 am sure the new Director-General will take into consideration. I think the activities of the security organisations should be subject to constant public and parliamentary review because during the worst of the cold war years many people in Australia were affected by the security organisations becoming an instrument in the party political struggles of this country. So the Government and the Director-General who is appointed as a result of this legislation will have a tremendous responsibility. 
If it is important for the Parliament to consider this particular judicial appointment then I wonder why it is that we in the Australian Parliament never concern ourselves with the other intelligence organisations that operate in this country. In addition to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation we have the Australian Secret Intelligence Service, the Joint Intelligence Organisation and more recently we have become aware of the Intelligence Branch of the Commonwealth Police as a result of the steps that it took in closing down the radio link that existed in Darwin between Australia and the independence movement in East Timor. It has subsequently been revealed that the Intelligence Branch of this organisation committed what was, in my view, an infamous act and a breach of privilege in certain activities related to  Mr Fry,  one of the local members here in Canberra. Yet no attempt has been made to place the activities of these other important organisations in the arena of public debate. 
We do not have to look very far to see something of the model upon which the Australian security organisations have been based, particularly the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It has been modelled upon the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States. I do not want to dwell at any great length upon this matter. But I do wish to refer to a number of articles that have been published in Australian newspapers indicating that the intelligence organisation in the United States, upon which we based our intelligence organisation, has been the subject of a very constant and long overdue review by the American parliament. I refer to an article published in the  Australian  on 12 June 1975 which states: 
The Central Intelligence Agency engaged in scores of plainly unlawful and improper invasions of constitutional rights during its 28-year history, including domestic breakins, wiretaps, mail openings and data-collection on thousands of Americans, the Rockefeller Commission reported yesterday. 
But I think that this is the important part of the report: 
It recommended that Congress 'make explicit' that the CIA-  upon which our agency is based-  can only collect foreign intelligence, and that the  President,  by executive order, generally prohibit the agency from gathering data on the domestic activities of U.S. citizens. 
We know of the activities of the Senate committee on the Intelligence Agency in the United States as well as of the Congressional committees, and it is alarming to read the reports which indicate that a variety of suggestions were made; for instance, that  President  de Gaulle ought to be removed from the political arena by a poison, that  President  Sukarno should be framed by the making of a pornographic film, that the  President  of South Vietnam,  Mr Diem,  be murdered, that  Mr Trujillo,  the  President  of the Dominican Republic, be murdered. The reports also relate to countries like South Korea, where the  President  was in fact removed from office as the result of an assassination. 
I think it is proper that the Parliament should be debating these matters and not just the peripheral matters which have been debated today. I join with my colleague  Senator Button  in trying to raise some important questions relating to the activities of ASIO. I have a report in which the present Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  when he was Minister for Defence in the previous LiberalCountry Party Government, was critical in a public way of the activities of the Joint Intelligence Organisation over its refusal to report properly the decision of that Government in respect of a civil aid program in South Vietnam. It seems to me that there is a great necessity for us to understand more clearly the role of our intelligence organisations. 
As a result of a Labor Government coming to office, we found out that an agent of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was operating from our embassy in Santiago and playing a very difficult role, a nefarious role, an improper role in respect of the events that took place in that country and which subsequently resulted in the death of that country's properly elected leader. We know that the Minister concerned took steps to have that officer removed from the staff of the Department of Labor and Immigration because he was carrying out a task which was not in accordance with that Department's functions. We know something of what prompted  Mr Whitlam  to take the steps that he did last year in making the proposal to appoint a person of the calibre of  Mr Justice  Woodward to the position of Director-General of ASIO.  Mr Whitlam,  in response to a question, told the Parliament that in fact there were no Security Intelligence Organisation personnel in Dili, the capital of East Timor. The following day we were told by the head of another department that in fact there was such a person operating in that capacity in Dili. 
The Opposition wishes to see a regularisation of the activities in Australia of ASIO. It does not want to see a continuation of the cold war type of politics. My colleague  Senator Button  talked this morning about the spook atmosphere that existed when we spent too much of our time on the domestic activities of legitimate political organisations, when we were more concerned with students in the universities who became involved in political activities or spoke about political issues when in fact their activities had nothing to do with intelligence gathering, which was the substantive reason for the establishment of ASIO. 
-Of course it was established by the Australian Labor Government and it was established at the request of the United States State Department-  Senator Sim  may laugh- for the purpose of swapping information of an intelligence nature. Unfortunately that changed very dramatically during the cold war period. One has to look only at the experiences in the national Parliament involving  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Stallings  to find that even the Prime Minister, under whose control the responsibility for this organisation subsequently came, when he attempted to obtain information had it denied to him. In point of fact, the United States had the temerity to send to our departments and organisations cables which sought in some way to intimidate them into keeping information from the Prime Minister. The Opposition sees the appointment of a judge in this area as a step forward in the ultimate democratisation of the security organisations and, based on the experience in the United States, as a development where the sort of excesses which have taken place in past years will be avoided. 
I am not one of those people that takes the view that the security organisations have not endeavoured to carry out some part of their proper function. I said during the debate on Croatian terrorism that it was obvious that the security organisations had carried out a worthwhile exercise of their responsibilities. The failure in that area came about because the government of the day did not act upon the recommendations and advice that were given to it by ASIO. The Opposition hopes that as a result of this appointment the activities of the organisation will be restricted more to intelligence gathering and less to spying on their fellow Australians. There is a large grey area involved in what is legitimate political activity. If one examined the evidence presented to  Senator Church's  inquiry in the United States and if one examined the files of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation one would find reams and reams of paper expressing points of view about the activities of decent Australian people who wished only to express their views about a particular political situation. 
I have been to meetings concerned with the issue of Vietnam and with the peace of the world and found people who obviously were representatives of this organisation sitting and listening to the speeches of those who were contributing to ordinary discussion about the affairs of politics in Australia as they saw them. One waits with interest the publication of further information from the United States of America. I refer to the Pike Congressional Committee, which in its interim report, said that the Central Intelligence Agency, upon which ours is based, interfered in elections in other countries to the extent that something like 30 per cent of all its funds and activities related to the internal elections in those overseas countries. This is not the role of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Its purpose is to gather intelligence to protect Australia. We have no disagreement with that purpose; but we do disagree when members of ASIO go to meetings held on the campuses of the University of Sydney or the Australian National University and employ pimps and other such people to relate conversations and the contributions that are made in a public debate dealing with a specific issue on which such meetings have been convened. 
We trust- certainly this was in the mind of  Mr Whitlam  when he brought forward legislation similar to this in 1975- that the appointment of a member of the judiciary, in this case  Mr Justice  Woodward, will take us back to the 1 949 concept and that we will get out of the area where spies, counter spies, spooks and other similar people are involved in these activities. These are people whose prejudices ultimately are found to represent a considered objective viewpoint about a legitimate activity of a person involved in politics in this country. It is in those circumstances, not in the circumstances mentioned by  Senator Wright  or  Senator Harradine,  that we believe that this Bill ought to be supported. Our hope is that in the years that lie ahead people like  Mr Justice  Woodward will take this Organisation back to its legitimate role. 
I join with  Mr Hamer,  who represents the conservative point of view in the House of Representatives, when he says that there is a great deal to be said for a limitation of 5 years being placed upon the appointment of a person to the very important position of Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I believe that in this country we ought to be moving to a situation where ordinary citizens are able to look at their security files and to see what is being compiled in the dossiers that are kept in this country in respect of their political activities. I conclude on the point made by Congressman Moss recently when he was asked whether such a right would not in some way endanger the security of the United States. He replied: 
Well yes. But nowhere near the danger that existed before the Freedom of Information Act was written. There's danger in disclosing information. How does one define the real security needs of the nation? I tend to feel that the greatest security of a nation is an informed public and I'm willing to take the risks of disclosing too much. 
I am hopeful, as indeed is the Opposition, that in the person of  Mr Justice  Woodward- a trained lawyer and a man in whom we have confidencethis type of approach will become much more dominant in the activities of ASIO, as distinct from the sort of behaviour pattern which became commonplace over the last 20 years in that Organisation. 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
Require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the Minister seen the reports suggesting that the Government is to defer all financial commitments to growth centres until a cost-benefit analysis is completed? Does the Government accept the need for planned development of regional growth centres as the only viable alternative to the destruction of the national estate and recreation areas, congestion of the cities and the general deterioration of the quality of life in our cities? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will not renege on its election promise to maintain the growth centre commitment not only in relation to New South Wales but also and more particularly in respect of those under consideration in Queensland and Victoria, namely, the cities of Townsville and Geelong respectively? 
1 present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
Require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition receive^ and read. 
Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development seen reports that the Australian Government is proposing to sell the Glebe Estate, the purchase of which was supported by all parties in the Senate in 1974. Has the Minister received representations from the New South Wales State Council of the Liberal Party opposing any moves to dispose of this valuable piece of real estate purchased to assist low income earners? Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that there is no intention by his Government to sell the former Glebe church lands to private developers? 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would: 
Be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
Find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State  to  State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
Require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development seen reports that Australia proposes to order the United States guided missile system which has the capacity to launch missiles with nuclear warheads? Is there any relationship between this decision and the proposed sale of uranium by Australia? Further, can the Minister assure the Senate that no uranium export licences or mining leases will be granted before the Ranger uranium inquiry report is received and a public debate ensues? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Recognising the Government's electoral commitment to retain the Australian Heritage Commission, can the Minister indicate when it is proposed to set up the Commission in accordance with the legislation, with the planned and previously approved citizen body of private persons and departmental heads, to carry out this vital task of preserving our heritage. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health able to say whether it is proposed to cut back on community health programs as part of the current economy drive? Is the Minister aware of any cuts in the current community health program which is operated at present by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the statement which was released to the Senate yesterday about unemployment benefits. Is the Minister aware of voluminous reports which indicate that migrant women are often discriminated against and coerced by unscrupulous employers? Does the Government acknowledge that there is evidence that some such employees are often forced into sexual activity with the employer or face dismissal? In view of the Government's new guidelines for unemployment benefits, will the Minister advise what steps have been taken or are proposed to be taken to prevent the sexploitation of migrant women by some employers who can now threaten such persons not only with the loss of employment but also with their being ineligible for unemployment benefits for at least 6 weeks? 
Did the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, indicate at the dinner of the Urban Development Institute that the Australian Government would withdraw from the growth centre program which had the support of both Houses of the Parliament and ail Parties over the last 3 years? If the Minister has been reported correctly, does not the Government find itself in conflict with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments, both of which have expressed a desire to see a continued Federal involvement in growth centres? Does not this new attitude show that the Government's so-called federalism policy is now being developed in conflict with State interests and wishes? 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development whether he has had time to consider  Sir John  Overall's report, made in February 1976, on the Albury-Wodonga centre. If he has, does the Minister agree with the main conclusions of the report and will he table that report in this chamber? 
The Senate is debating the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill and is rightly concerning itself with one of the grave social problems that exist in this country. It has to be said that since the 1930s housing in Australia generally has been in an unsatisfactory state. The Senate does not need to be reminded that during the 1930s we suffered a very harsh economic period, a depression, in which housing suffered very greatly. We saw the war in the 1940s and the great post-war developments of the 1 950s, 1 960s and 1970s when the resources for building were substantially under great stress and when the demand for land and accommodation suffered from very accelerated inflation. 
We can say certainly that in the post-war years housing began to take on the characteristics of being in a state of continual crisis. The Australian government took the philosophical view that housing should be substantially the responsibility of the private sector. In those circumstances the resources in the building industry were applied very substantially in the private sector, and public sector activity was to an extent made subordinate to the needs of private sector activity. The States, whatever their political complexion, endeavoured to meet some part of their responsibility by providing funds and resources for rented accommodation. However, I think it would be acknowledged by everybody associated with the building industry and everyone associated with social welfare that the point was finally reached in 1 972 when the figures that I have been able to obtain showed that there were more people waiting for public sector housing than ever before in Australia's history. In the intervening period, in the last three or four years, despite the very great increase in public funding from the Australian government to the States so that the States could carry out their responsibilities, the changed economic conditions have nevertheless created additional numbers of people wanting to participate in public housing. 
This piece of legislation has as its purpose the carrying into legislative effect of the revised 1973 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and the allocation of funds as provided in the Budget of 1975-76. Because it does that, the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the Bill. For obvious reasons, we provided substantial sums of money in that Budget because we recognised that there were many areas within the Australian community that still required substantial Commonwealth funds for the purpose of providing rented accommodation. Unlike the present Government and previous conservative governments, the Labor Government in its very short term of office did as much as it could with the funds that were available to it to help people whose position was covered by the ambit of the Commonwealth-State housing agreements. 
Of course, we were not able to achieve all of our objectives because our term of office was shortened by the unscrupulous action of honourable senators opposite in denying us the essential funds to carry on our legislative program. It is a matter of regret that in our 3 years of office we as a government, committed as we were to social and economic reform, never had an opportunity to introduce policies and programs to provide housing assistance for the very needy poor. I say this because it is my firm belief that the 1973 housing agreement, better as it was than any previous housing agreement, was by its very nature helping only a category of people which I would call the respectable poor. The Labor Government failed, as I am sure this Government will fail, to provide suitable accommodation to help that segment of society outside the category of the respectable poor- that section of society in most need of assistance and accommodation. I refer to the alcoholics, the dropouts, the misfits, the people who for a variety of reasons need assistance. 
One has only to refer to the various poverty reports from social welfare agencies to see that an increasing number of people find themselves unable to provide the resources for their accommodation. Yet this is a segment of society which this Government does not want to know about and for which this legislation, of course, does not provide any type of assistance. It is about time that we faced up to the realities of life and tried to help these people and accepted that it is a responsibility of government to help those who cannot help themselves. I believe that this Government will not recognise this section of the Australian community. I think we can say that the 1973 housing agreement is one of Labor's proudest achievements. Therefore, we find ourselves in complete agreement with the legislation before the Senate today. We recognise the need for a considerable proportion of Australia's respectable poor to receive government originated assistance to enable them to be provided with housing of a standard acceptable to the Australian community. We did not turn away from our duty in this regard. We faced the reality and took positive steps within the limits of resources available to provide essential funds for the States to carry out their responsibilities. 
Our policies on welfare housing were just one part of our overall strategy to improve the quality of life in Australia. The agreement for which this Bill is appropriating funds is inter-related with the policies we introduced in the whole area of transport, urban and regional development, education, social welfare and many other fields. All of these policies form part of a whole. All were related. All comprised the ALP strategy for reforming life in this country. We tried to raise expectation. We recognised the need to give assistance to those people in the Australian community who were not able to provide their own resources. It can be argued, although we will debate it, that the electorate did not reject these policies. I believe that it rejected Labor for one reason alone. In our eagerness to achieve reforms we acted too quickly. I believe that we have learnt our lesson. It was that we should have proceeded in such a way that the Australian community could understand what was involved in our great reforms of the last 3 years. 
I wonder whether this Government will learn its lesson. In fact, I challenge Government senators this evening to understand what we were about and to understand our rejection of the  laissez faire  policies which are now beginning to be reintroduced by the Government. Because of their lack of understanding of the social and economic needs prevailing in our society- needs which have existed for decades- successive conservative governments did not attempt to rectify the inadequacies apparent in our community. It was in our desire to make up for those deficiencies and to correct the deficiencies within the Australian community, that we got ourselves involved in a large scale deficit. After all, we do not make any apologies for the fact that we would expend X dollars on land commissions and X dollars on housing agreements because in fact they are part of the responsibilities of government to provide funds. I agree with some of the comments made by some of the more enlightened members in the other place. I refer to  Mr 
C. Wentworth,  Mr Kevin  Cairns and several other members in the Government Parties who have drawn attention to the failure of this Government to appreciate the accounting circumstances upon which the deficit was developed in recent times. 
No special funding arrangements existed under the McMahon Government for the provision of welfare housing in the States, although the normal allocations by the States for welfare housing from the States' loans programs were assisted by the payment of grants under the States Grants Housing Act of 1971. Of course, it is proper when we consider the tremendous number of people who have been brought into the country under the immigration program in the post-war years that governments responsible for such programs should accept a financial responsibility for housing. Whilst it is true that many migrant groups, through their own efforts, have been able to secure for themselves the necessary resources to provide accommodation, it is still apparent that great numbers of migrants are not able to accumulate sufficient funds to provide themselves with private sector accommodation. 
No special programs existed prior to 1972 to improve our national road system, our urban road system, our local rural road system and our public transport system. No funds were available for local government until Labor came to office. The Federal Labor Government made direct grants to local government. No special programs existed to improve the standard of education or the standard of welfare services. It was not until the dying days of the McMahon Government- I think it can be said that it was a panic button recognition- that there was Federal Government recognition of the special area of urban and regional development. It has to be said when we talk about housing that it cannot be dealt with in isolation from the general infrastructure which is necessary to make housing part of a local community. Which government was it that introduced programs designed to overcome the backlogs in the infrastructure? Which government introduced the national sewerage program in cities where the population was in excess of 20 000 people? Which government introduced programs designed to lower prices of residential land and to introduce proper land use management principles into new urban developments? Which government introduced the area improvement program which was designed to improve the urban environment in what were in many cases badly planned housing commission estates built in the 1950s and 1960s? It was a 
Labor Government that took the initiatives in these areas. We make no apologies to the Parliament, the Austraiian people or to the newspaper proprietors for our endeavours to allocate funds to improve the infrastructure as part of the urban housing scene. 
Apart from doing these things which were welcomed and appreciated by the electorate, the Labor Government recognised that if we were to increase the resources used for the provision of welfare housing, the Agreement should stipulate I quote from the Agreement- that 'to the maximum extent reasonably practicable, dwellings built by housing authorities are to be intermingled with private dwellings and housing authorities will acquire some blocks to be developed privately'. The 1973 Agreement did stipulate this, which meant that the respectable poor could then be housed in areas which provided a reasonable socio-economic mix rather than in ghettoes of under-privileged as was the practice of the conservative governments of the 1950s and 1960s. 
The social welfare reports published over the last ten or fifteen years have drawn attention to the need for public housing tq have the principle of a social mix integrated : with housing programs, and have shown that we wanted no more of the segregation that was" sp much part of the incorrect policies pursued in the 1950s and 1960s. Of course, we specifically included in the 1973 Agreement these important new additives. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in introducing this Bill in the other place showed a remarkable lack of understanding of the purpose behind the Bill. It seems to me that the Minister did not understand the philosophy behind even this legislation. The Minister stated that the Labor Government had been forced to curtail expansion of welfare housing in this country because expansion in this area had been too extravagant- At the time the Hayden Budget was being prepared the pressure was on for cutbacks in public spending but the State governments, particularly the Queensland Government and the New South Wales Government, ignoring the philosophical expressions coming from the new Leader of the Liberal Party,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, set out in anticipation of an expanded housing program for 1 975- 1 976. Of course, they urged not only the previous Government but also this Government- and this Government has flatly refused even to consider their approaches- to increase funds over those which were provided in the 1975-76 Budget. So the Minister's interpretation of events is entirely wrong. 
Undoubtedly we as a government had to reduce the size of the estimated deficit and one of the ways in which we did this was to cut back in real terms the amount of money allocated to this area in the Budget. Unlike the present Government which is standing on its dignity, we stood ready and indicated to the States that if the cutback would have a harsh effect on any housing program in any State we would sympathetically consider special loans to the States affected. Such States were Queensland and Victoria. So the Minister's view that a cutback in real terms in welfare housing is not important gives the impression that the previous Government was not concerned with public housing. The Minister went on to say in the debate in the other place that private sector housing was picking up, so again he fails to understand the philosophy behind this Bill. 
The question has to be posed: How can families who earn below 85 per cent of the average weekly wage and who are eligible for rental accommodation from the State housing commissions buy a home or even rent satisfactory accommodation from the private sector? If the Minister believes that the problem can be solved by the encouragement of private sector housing he has no basic understanding of the great number of people who are eligible to receive public housing. If the Government understood correctly the eligibility provisions of the public housing programs, surely it would know that people have to earn less than 85 per cent of the average weekly wage in order to qualify. Something like 2 868 000 people come within the category which earns less than $134 a week. They are the people whose housing is to be provided from the funds under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. They represent almost half of the work force. For the Minister when introducing the Bill to suggest that there is some upturn in private sector housing and that, therefore, this will provide opportunities for the great bulk of the Australian population, indicates that he does not understand that, because of the prevailing economic conditions, at least half of the Australian people need to have their accommodation provided for them by public housing instrumentalities. 
It was in recognition of the gap that then existed between the public housing and private sector requirements, that is, the conditions that were applied by the lending authorities, that the Labor Government established the Australian Housing Corporation so that we could provide sufficient funds for those earning in excess of 85 per cent of average weekly earnings but who failed to meet the test of something like 135 per cent of average weekly earnings to qualify for a loan for a house to be built by the private sector. So we have a grouping of people under 85 per cent of average weekly earnings which this legislation seeks to cover and another group of people earning between 85 per cent to 135 per cent of average weekly earnings to be dealt with by the Australian Housing Corporation. It is greatly regretted that this Government already has announced that the Australian Housing Corporation is no longer to operate. Therefore, that group of people which it covered will be denied access to public housing and will be forced to join the long queue, which will get longer, of people who will be unable to provide the necessary deposit and meet the monthly repayments and other requirements of the private lending authorities. So it is nonsense for the Government to imply, as did its spokesman for housing in the House of Representatives, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, that this problem of providing adequate housing for the poor in our society will be looked after by the current resurgence in the private housing sector. 
Apart from saying indirectly that the Labor Government's economic policies, which were designed for a slow but sure recovery, have started to take effect in the housing sector, the Minister shows an appalling lack of understanding of the economic problems when he disgresses in this way. The present Government's policy is to reduce the annual growth in the money supply from about 20 per cent to about 12 per cent. This will have a dramatic and drastic effect on the recovery that is beginning to manifest itself in the housing sector- a recovery which is directly traceable to the economic policies of the Labor Government. The housing sector is the only area of the economy which is currently showing real strength, real growth. 
The Government's monetary policy already has had the effect of increasing interest rates. The Government's decision has ignored the fact that the building industry, especially the housing sector, not only bears the major burden of tight monetary policies in Australia but also is the key industry in our economy. How many times have we heard it said in parliaments and in general debates throughout the country that the prosperity of our economy can be based upon the growth and development of the housing industry? Honourable senators opposite should remember that if the building industry as a whole does not recover, then there is little hope of worthwhile recovery in the Australian economy. They should realise that there is a significant danger that a credit squeeze will result from the present policies of the Government and that the private housing sector, which we admit is showing an upturn, will again suffer a downturn. Rather than attempting to denigrate our efforts in the field of welfare housing- most Government speakers in the other place did so- the present Government should be trying to emulate our feats, our successes and our achievements in the housing field in the period 1972-1975. 
If we examine Labor's record we find that the McMahon Government allocated only $ 164.2m for welfare housing in 1972-73. Within the first few months of coming to office the Labor Government immediately set about increasing that allocation. We did this as an interim measure after asking each State to indicate the additional amount of money that it could use for the commencement of new dwellings before 30 June 1973, for allocation by various State housing authorities to construct rental housing for needy families. In the following year, 1973, the Housing Agreement, to which I have already referred, was completed. This Agreement stands as one of the many achievements of the Labor Government during its term in office. It was part of a concerted effort on our part and on the part of all the State governments. Although it took time to persuade the State governments, finally all State governments came to appreciate the endeavours of the Australian Government to change the emphasis, the philosophy, the conditions surrounding the provision of housing and to accept the fact that the Australian Government was genuinely attempting to increase the allocation of money for the purpose of redressing the wrongs which had been caused by the failure of successive conservative governments to recognise the plight of many Australians when it came to obtaining acceptable housing. 
In 1973-74, the first year of operation of the current Housing Agreement, an amount of $2 19m was advanced to the States for welfare housing purposes. The amount rose to $385m in 1974-75. On 11 November- the day on which the final act of infamy of 1975 took place, when the Senate passed the Hayden Budget- an amount of $365m was appropriated for public housing. If the Federal Labor Government had remained in office, by the end of this financial year that Government, in agreement with the States, would have been responsible for the provision of rental accommodation for approximately 2 1 000 families. In the same period, through the operation of the Home Builders' Account, Labor would have provided approximately 30 000 other families with finance to enable them to buy their own homes. This was achieved during a period of world-wide economic decline. Rather than criticise the efforts of the previous Government, this Government should be giving some credit to the genuine efforts of the Labor Government in this whole area of providing for the ever increasing number of people in this country who have not the resources with which to buy a home in the private sector. 
The Labor Government headed by  Mr Whitlam,  with which I was associated for the last 3 years, set about trying to reduce one of the main problems in the accommodation field. It took that government a considerable amount of time to consult with the States, but finally all States agreed to establish land commissions. We found that the cost of land had become the biggest single problem in providing accommodation. The cost of land had escalated out of all proportion to the cost of erecting a building upon it. It was essential for the Australian Government to take initiatives in this area, because it was in this area that the biggest single increase in the cost of providing accommodation had taken place in the post-war years. I hope that the present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development will struggle to maintain the land commissions. It is to be hoped that he will do everything he can within his Party room and that he will utilise the resources of the Parliament and of the community to maintain the land commissions as an integral pan of the whole Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The cost of land has escalated more than any other element in the provision of accommodation. 
It is interesting to refer to the 1973 Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and to recognise that in that Agreement we brought down the interest rate from the current bond rate of 7 per cent to 4 per cent. Although the long term bond rate has risen now to 10.5 per cent, an increase of 50 per cent, the interest rate for housing finance under this Agreement is maintained at 4 per cent. In point of fact, the Australian Government is still playing a very significant part in the whole housing area, subsidising the States by about 6.5 per cent of the money which the States spend in this area. Of the $364m that is provided for in this legislation, 30 per cent is to go to the Home Builders Account at an interest rate of  4lA  per cent. This is a variable rate depending upon the decisions of the government of the day. Seventy per cent to 80 per cent of the balance of the funds available goes to the Housing Commissions. It is important for the Government Parties to rethink their attitude to the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement and to the Australian Housing Corporation because as a result of the decision to suspend the operation of the Corporation, approximately 250 construction programs have been cancelled or, as proposed, will be cancelled or abandoned. If these sorts of important initiatives can be so quickly set aside by this Government, then the mortgage tax deductibility scheme which the Labor Government introduced in 1974 must surely also be under some form of threat. 
It has been stated in debates in the Parliament and in public statements by the appropriate Ministers that it is proposed to go ahead with the home savings grants scheme. We say that this scheme will be no effective substitute for either the Commonwealth and State Housing agreement or the Australian Housing Corporation. The money could go and does go to people whose needs are not as easily identified as those of the people who are provided for in this legislation and in the Australian Housing Corporation. If people under a homes savings grants scheme can accumulate certain funds they are placed in a position of some advantage against the overwhelming majority of those people who qualify under the pieces of legislation to which I have referred. 
It is to be hoped that wiser counsels will prevail and that  Senator Greenwood  may be persuaded not to press on with his scheme for homes savings grants but rather will fight to retain the Australian Housing Corporation and will fight to increase the amount of money in the Budget of 1976-77 which will maintain the principles involved in the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Of course the Minister is under pressurethis is clear from statements which have been expressed in other places and which I know he has denied in this place- to cut back on the financial allocations necessary to develop Woolloomooloo and to maintain, recondition and develop the Glebe Estate. I am talking purely of the New South Wales situation. Clearly these are areas which will require the sympathetic consideration of the Minister against those within the Government who want to change the whole philosophical approach to a point of disaster in public housing if, in their frantic haste to cut back Commonwealth spending, they see the need to do so in the welfare areas which are the responsibility of the Australian Government. 
I find it hard to understand why pressures are exerted upon the Australian Government to cut back public spending. One never reads anything in the newspapers or hears any debates in the Parliament about cutbacks in the spending of State or local governments. It always seems to be the evil dollar spent by the Australian Government that has to be cut back. It is to the credit of this Government that what was provided in the Hayden Budget for the States to spend on public housing has been maintained down to the very last dollar in this legislation. That is why we support it. I hope  Senator Greenwood  will apply all his great skill of negotiation to maintain the principles that are inherent in this legislation, that he will resist those who want to abolish the Australian Housing Corporation and that he will desist in his efforts to re-establish the homes savings grants because they are not made available in those areas where need can be established in regard to public housing. The Opposition commends the Government for the Bill and will support it in its entirety. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, follows on the question that I asked him yesterday, ls it a fact that some $90m in Federal funds have already been committed to the Albury-Wodonga growth centre? Is the Minister able to confirm the laudatory observations made by  Sir John  Overall in his recent report on the centre? Paragraph 6 of that report states: 
The area has national significance, it can provide a national Government secondary employment area and as well, could demonstrate world wide, a 'pilot' decentralisation scheme of great quality which would give credit to the Government and the Prime Minister. It should be promoted as a national endeavour with the Prime Minister's personal backing. 
Will the Minister discuss that proposal with the Prime Minister and ask him to be publicly associated with the report made by  Sir John  Overall? 
The statement which  Senator Greenwood  has just read to the Senate is an important statement of the Government's intentions regarding the provision of accommodation for Australians. It is a statement which requires not the adjournment of the debate but some comment from the Opposition. I think it has to be said that whilst  Senator Greenwood  has indicated clearly that some of the rough edges have been taken off the previous legislation, the proposals outlined in the statement fail badly to take into consideration the views that have been expressed in recent times both inside and outside the Parliament about the general problems of accommodation which face the people of this country. I think that if we could paraphrase the Minister's statement it would perhaps be along these lines: Never has so much been done for those who do not need as much as others. 
It strikes me that the statement, which expresses the endeavours and the intentions of the Government, fails badly to take into consideration the needs of accommodation as they now exist. Whilst I heard some accolades from Government senators to the statements made by the Minister, it seems to me that those honourable senators do not appreciate that it is not this type of assistance that is essential to the average Australian and essential for the necessary regeneration of the building industry. I put it to Government senators that this statement indicates that for people to qualify for a homes savings grant, which is proposed to be the subject of legislation, they will have to save over a 3-year period a sum varying from $26 per week to $40 per week. I thought it had been made abundantly clear in all quarters that if people have the capacity to save that sort of money they do not require the assistance of government as much as others do. It was made clear yesterday in the debate on the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill that people who have that capacity to save can have recourse to the initiatives and the resources in the private building sector. Therefore, whatever may be said about the encouragement and stimulation which this proposal will give to the building industry, only those people in the upper and middle income groups will profit from the proposed legislation. 
After all, it will be 3 years before any impact is made in this area, although I concede that the Minister indicated that at the end of a 2-year period there are certain qualifications which will permit this legislation to apply to certain groups of people. If we are to rely upon public sector legislation such as that debated yesterday and if we are to rely upon these proposals to stimulate the private sector, there is no possibility that the necessary regeneration will take place in the building industry. We have a contradictory situation. The Minister stressed in his statement that there should now be an emphasis on saving, but in the last several weeks the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have been suggesting that what is needed in Australia at this time is for the community to spend and not to save. It is part of the cornerstone of the Government's economic policy to encourage people to spend. Some 350 000 people have participated in this scheme previously. The Minister's statement does not deserve credence. At a time when the Government is saying as part of its economic recovery program that there ought to be spending in the private sector the Minister has said that there ought to be savings in the private sector. If there are savings they will not have any effect on the building industry. 
The Minister's statement seems to me to be a very poor substitute for the very progressive legislation which was passed by the Houses of Parliament last year when the Australian Housing Corporation was established. There is no doubt that the Minister's proposals will contribute to a deadening within the building industry rather than to a stimulation, as did the LSBs- the Lynch Savings Bonds- which had the effect of draining off liquid funds from the building societies in the early part of this year. They created a crisis of funds, and this has caused some loss of confidence in the whole of the building industry. The statement ignored very considerably the land component in the whole problem of accommodation. The proposals which have been outlined suggest that the legislation will be concerned with accommodation and housing. In Sydney and Melbourne particularly land is the major problem in the area of accommodation. 
The statement ignores the advice of people who have any amount of understanding of the problems of the building industry and the problems of accommodation. I refer to a paper published recently by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies which reported upon the proposed legislative program of the Government which was elected last year. I think it has to be said that the Government and this statement which the Minister has made today ignore the advice of those people who are particularly tuned in to the problems of the building industry, such as the Australian Institute of Urban Studies or the Housing Industry Congress. It seems to me that the scheme flies in the face of all the evidence available to us. The report to which I refer mentions that the inability of people to achieve home ownership may be due to the inability to save or to meet instalments at the required level, or both. It said: 
On the assumption that it was unwillingness or inability to save, and therefore as an encouragement  to   save, iiic Menzies Government introduced the Homes Savings Grant scheme . . . 
The report went on to say: 
Despite its electoral popularity it is difficult to find things to say in favour of the homes savings grant, especially if it is given as a reward for saving. This is, quite firmly, a regressive measure, a grant from the poor to the rich, the only form of grant of this nature which could conceivably be of social benefit would be one which assisted into the homeownership class that hypothetical marginal group to which we have referred. 

 Senator Greenwood said in his statement that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to home ownership. In 1972 in the electoral campaign we pointed out the difficulties involved with the home savings grants. Even  Senator Greenwood  had to admit that there were many anomalies which, to his credit, have been removed from this proposal. The report went on to say: 
Such a grant would take the form of identifying a group slightly below the average wage or salary level. 
I put it to the Senate that the average person requiring accommodation cannot save between $26 and $40 a week. This amount would have to accumulate to get the maximum benefit of $2,000 over the 3-year period. A person would have to save $6,000 in order to qualify for a $2,000 grant. That ignores the fact that that group of people surely would be regarded as being able to stand on their own 2 feet if they could save that sort of money. 
Public funds should not be expended in that area when it is the people earning under 135 per cent of average weekly earnings or about $200 a week and below who need to be encouraged into the home building industry. These proposals will do nothing immediately to regenerate and stimulate the building industry. It has been said by a great number of people that the future of the building industry is very bleak and stark, that public and private investment in the building industry is lagging and sagging, that unemployment in the building industry is particularly marked. About 1 8 500 people specifically in the building industry are out of work and half of them are in New South Wales. There is in the building industry a higher ratio of people out of work than there is in the rest of the community. 
So I do not think it can be said in any way, shape or form that the proposals which have been enunciated in the Senate today will have any marked effect on the problems of accommodation and land and the building industry. We believe that the Government proposes to worsen the problem by either standing aside or abolishing the land commissions and the urban land councils which have been agreed upon between the Commonwealth and the States. The tight monetary position which this Government is now introducing and the policies which it is now enunciating will do nothing to reduce the burden and make home ownership available to an increasing number of people. 
This is the time when the Australian Government in co-operation with the States ought to be pouring more money into acquiring land. It ought to be making more money available to the State housing authorities. It is the time when it ought to be taking initiatives to regenerate the building industry. But we find that this report, which contains no basis for means test application, presented to the Senate today by  Senator Greenwood,  while it may be associated with an election promise nevertheless does not in any way, shape or form make up for the leeway that exists in regard to accommodation in this country. We believe, of course, as happened in the past, that the great bulk of the funds which will be promoted in this area by the Commonwealth Government will finish up in the pockets of the private developers and speculators and, in fact, will add to the cost of houses rather than depreciate it. In those circumstances the statement is a very disappointing one. It is an illuminating one because it shows that this Government really has not learnt the lessons of the last four of five years. It has not tuned into the needs of the major cities of Sydney and Melbourne where the problems are the greatest. The actions of this Government will show, as they did in the past, that it has lost touch with the real basic needs of the Australian people. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
1 ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Is it true that the Government has deferred the final approvals for expenditure in this year's area improvement program? Is the Minister aware also that local bodies base then- income and expenditure on a calendar year, ending with the September-December quarter? Is the Minister satisfied that councils which qualify under the area improvement program will not be left in financial difficulties if all the money allocated to the area improvement program in this year's Budget, that is, the current Budget, is not released? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and I hope that he is as well informed as he was earlier when answering a question asked by  Senator Jessop.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements made by the Minister for Primary Industry in a speech to the Central Coast Graziers Association concerning beef exports to the United States of America? Accepting that Australia has been joined with New Zealand in the allocation of United States beef shortfall contracts this year, has the Minister's statement placed in jeopardy Australia's continuing negotiations to obtain previously exclusive contracts? If so, what action will the Government take to ensure that this lucrative market which yielded additional beef contracts to the order of 23 million lb weight last year and valued at approximately $ 13m will not be lost because of the uninformed and reckless indifference displayed by the Minister for Primary Industry? 
The Senate is being asked to give its assent to a Bill that has been passed by the House of Representatives- a Bill which proposes to reintroduce the phosphate fertiliser bounty for a period from 1 1 February 1976 to 30 June 1977. Previous legislation lapsed in 1974. The former Labor Government decided to remove the superphosphate bounty because the cost to revenue was more than could be justified in the light of the benefits flowing from the application of the subsidy. In these circumstances, the Opposition will not support the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill 1976. When the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill 1976 later comes before the Senate for debate, we propose to support it. The fact that the Labor Party opposes one piece of legislation but supports another clearly establishes the fact that it is not  per se  opposed to giving assistance to the rural community. It has always been the philosophy of the Labor Party to support those sectors of the community which are most in need. I think that can be said about the whole legislative program of the Whitlam Government from 1972 to 1975. 
It is pleasing to see even some belated recognition of this fact by people such as  Mr Anthony,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Within the last week he pointed out in a speech that during the period 1972-1975 the Labor Government had agreed to substantive pressures and approaches for assistance that had been made to it by groups within the community. One has only to look at some of the major areas- the Australian Assistance Plan, local government, the States Grants Commission and education- to see that in those 3 years the Australian Labor Party Government placed its emphasis upon the area of need. Of course other Ministers, such the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  depart from that principle by suggesting that in giving recognition to areas of need we were creating some sort of a soft society. 
That may be a view that is held by supporters of the Government but certainly it is not a view which is held by members of the Australian community. As this Government seeks to change the emphasis and to make changes in the allocation of resources it will come to appreciate how much it is out of touch with public opinion. The Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, under the chairmanship of Professor Henderson, has illustrated clearly that chronic poverty exists in the rural districts of Australia and has been overlooked and ignored by previous Liberal-Country Party administrations. 
We submit that the continuance of the superphosphate bounty is a further illustration of the Government's failure to appreciate the areas in which need should be met by activities within the Australian Government. The problems associated with rural proverty are, social problems which are associated usually with widowhood, desertion, single pregnant girls, geriatrics and also long-term unemployment, generally poor employment opportunities, poor education opportunities and so on. The problems associated with low income unskilled workers are particularly prevalent in country areas. As the Henderson Committee report states: 
Families living on low incomes with little or no prospects of these incomes being increased substantially in the foreseeable future face many of the same difficulties whether they live in the country or in the metropolitan area. 
The Labor Party opposes the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill on the general philosophical ground that the bounty does not alleviate the plight of those people in need in the rural communities. The cost to revenue of this bounty is greater than can be justified in the light of benefits flowing from the application of the subsidy. In the first half of 1976 the bounty will cost taxpayers approximately $ 1 7.4m, or $30m in a full year, at the present rate of usage. In 1973-74, the last full year of its usage, the cost to taxpayers was $67m. We oppose the Bill not because we oppose giving a bounty to those farmers who are in need of assistance but because of the way in which the bounty is applied. It is an across-the-board type of subsidy which fails to assist adequately those farmers most in need of assistance. It favours the greater users of superphosphate, who generally are those farmers least in need of assistance. 
How significant is the superphosphate bounty? It is less significant than it was in the early 1970s. For example, last year there was a low usage of 1 .5 million tonnes which indicates, of course, that the usage of superphosphate fell rather dramatically. In 1973-74, the last year in which the bounty was applied, the average saving to the 140 000 users was $366 and 6.2 million tonnes of superphosphate was spread. It has to be said that one of the factors that prompted the Government at that time to make the decision that it made was that during 1974 superphosphate prices escalated from a point where the bounty represented a significant part of the cost, to a point where in 1975 it represented approximately 20 per cent of the price before it left the manufacturers. In other words, prior to 1974 the bounty represented some 42 per cent of the cost of the superphosphate. However, when the bounty was removed in 1975 it fell to some 20 per cent of the cost, indicating how the cost of superphosphate had escalated in one short year. 
It has been established that the application of superphosphate increases, regardless of the bounty, as export prospects improve. For example, wheat farmers who are benefiting currently by high export prices, are maintaining their usage of superphosphate. This shows clearly that most of the 50 000 wheat farmers in this country will be in a good position, provided export markets hold, to increase the superphosphate application after receiving the returns from several good seasons. This fortifies our view that the bounty is going to those sectors of the community who are less needy. The bounty does not promote the use of superphosphate in itself. There is no point in promoting production of an item which cannot be sold. It is worth remembering that the introduction of the bounty back in the 1940s was designed to encourage farmers to use fertiliser as an important ingredient in production. Now many years later farmers need no longer to be convinced of the value of fertilisers. It is interesting to note that on 27 April 1975, just after  Mr Fraser  had been appointed Leader of the Opposition, he stated in an interview on Channel 7, referring to the policy applied by the Labor Government: 
While the present policy in the strict sense says that the subsidy would be restored at its old rate since that was written the cost of superphosphate and the general inflationary impact on the farming community would obviously mean that we - 
He was talking then of his Party- would have to look at the total value of the subsidy. Because I think that the old value of the subsidy would not increase the use of superphosphate by 1 ton- it would probably have to be a good deal higher. 

 Mr Fraser has implied an acceptance of the argument that the bounty would not increase the use of superphosphate as he has restored the bounty at its former level of $11.81 a ton and superphosphate prices have not fallen. The high price of superphosphate has meant that farmers are not prepared to use a highly expensive material to produce something that does not bring them enough income. Of course there is abundant evidence to show that it is not production, or even the cost of production, that is the difficulty facing the rural community, the difficulty is rather one of how to sell the production from the rural industries. The bounty at its present level is of little benefit to the users, whilst it is at the same time a considerable charge on the Treasury at a time when this Government and many of its supporters in the community are calling for budgetary restraint, restraint which  Mr Fraser  interprets as affecting those most needy for the benefit of the wealthy. This is the nature of the application of the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. 
The Labor Party would not oppose this Bill if it were designed to assist the small and needy farmer, for example, the needy dairy farmer. But it has been established clearly that the contrary is the case. I think we are indebted to the Minister for Agriculture in South Australia,  Mr Chatterton,  for making available to us a detailed analysis of those who receive Commonwealth benefits. He has released figures which indicate that of the 25 052 farmers in South Australia, 18 500 used on average only 12 tonnes of superphosphate in 1973-74; 5000 used 60 tonnes; 1000 used 150 tonnes; 500 used 300 tonnes; 40 used 750 tonnes; 10 used 1500 tonnes; and 2 persons, corporations or companies used 5000 tonnes. It is in the light of this sort of information that the Opposition desires to move an amendment, a copy of which I presume is in the process of being circulated, to the motion which is presently before the Senate. I move: 
At the end of motion add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Minister should cause to be tabled in each House of the Parliament a list showing the names and addresses of all companies and individuals whose purchases of superphosphate and ammonium phosphate exceed 400 tonnes in a 12-months period and a list showing the amount of benefit accruing to such companies and individuals.' 
I think it is important that this be done. Last year as Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations I was provided with some comments and conclusions which had been reached in the United States Senate about the use of subsidies, bounties and general assistance that was given to various groups and companies in the United States of America, whether they were in the pastoral industry or in secondary industry. The point which the United States Senate made very strongly was the need for public identification of the recipients of such government assistance. 
The figures that I have quoted show that the overwhelming majority of people or companies who received assistance- 18 400 or about 70 per cent of those who participated in the scheme in South Australia-in 1973-74 received $141.72 a head in subsidy, forty received $8,857.50, ten received $17,715 and two received $59,050 between them. It is an incredible state of affairs that a bounty should be paid in such an acrosstheboard way, with clearly no relationship to need and no relationship to production. Therefore I think it is proper that the Senate should insist on some public identity of those receiving the sort of money to be made available in this legislation. I hope that the Senate in its wisdom is prepared to give support to that amendment. This is important for a number of reasons. 
Over the last several months we have been regaled by the media referring to those unfortunate people who find themselves out of employment and in receipt of social service benefitscommonly known as the dole- as 'dole bludgers'. Many people in the social welfare area, particularly those who are members of the Australian Council for Social Service, have drawn attention to the unfairness of categorising people in such a way. The point has been reached where the editorial of the  Daily Telegraph  yesterday had this to say: 
The fact that the private sector provides three out of every four jobs means the first casualties of an economy drive are likely to be government or semi-government employees. 
With those people jobless and the thousands of professional and skilled workers unable to find employment no matter where or how hard they try, the much-maligned dole bludger is very much in the minority on the dole queue. 
There is no place for dole bludgers in our society - 
We agree with that- 

 Mr Killen is right about that. But equally it is wrong to attack, by inference, the tens of thousands of other Australians who simply cannot find a job. 
For them being on the dole is a deeply hurtful experience. 
I submit that it is unbecoming for members of Parliament to use such a designation or phrase. It is certainly unbecoming that those who have such influence on public opinion should be putting into that category those people whose employment has ceased and who suffer sufficiently from being out of work without having that phrase applied to them. If that sort of behaviour continues I am sure that the expression will leave the metropolitan area and creep into the country. The people or companies in the categories of the top two or ten to which I have referred who receive $59,000 or $17,715 might well be described correctly as 'bounty bludgers'. 
The figures I have quoted for South Australia contrast with the official Australian Government documents which state that 40 tonnes on average are used in South Australia. Of the 25 000 farmers, 3000 dairy farmers use little superphosphate, 2000 poultry farmers get no benefit whatsoever, 1000 intensive piggeries and 2000 wine growers do not use superphosphate. The South Australian figures show that there are farmers receiving more than $8,000 a year from the bounty, yet this is in a period when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has instigated the use of the term 'dole bludgers' for people who are capable of seeking employment to sustain themselves but who have refused or failed to do so. In what other way can we describe wealthy people who can sustain themselves and their farms yet who exact from the taxpayer sums of up to $29,000 a year? That is precisely what this legislation seeks to do. These farmers are taking assistance away from their fellow farmers who are in need as well as taking it away from the Australian taxpayers generally. 
I abhor the use of the word 'bludger' in any circumstances to describe any sector of the community because I believe that it is divisive and nothing is to be gained by the use of such emotive terms. In times of economic difficulty it is imperative that the whole community comes together in order to achieve an economic recovery. No farmer receiving a benefit which is calculated to assist him in pursuing his activities and to maintain an adequate standard of living wishes to be placed in the same category as those few people who are possibly cheating the system whether by receiving social security benefits or the major benefits under this legislation. No unemployed person receiving social security benefits wishes to be placed in the same category as those few people who cheat and obtain unemployment benefits contrary to the law. The temporary relief offered by this bounty does not warrant its cost, notwithstanding the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission which stated: 
On balance it would be reasonable to give using industries the benefit of the doubt pending completion of its inquiry, lt does this notwithstanding its view that, at this stage of the inquiry, the assistance could be achieved at lower cost through more direct measures. 
If in fact the legislation were designed to recognise need and not to give across the board assistance, the Senate and the Government would find much more sympathy from the Opposition. 
No doubt dissenting Commissioner Robinson's view that the generalised nature of the bounty makes it an inequitable and ineffective means of tackling the urgent and varied problems faced by many rural producers will prevail when the final report is handed to the Government. What is needed is a policy that would provide effective assistance for farmers in trouble, not a token political gesture or measure calculated only to be a banner under which antiLabor rural sentiment can be gathered. The Australian Labor Party while in government preferred to attempt to deal with the basic problems facing the rural community. It caused the terms of reference of the IAC to be effectively altered to include rural industries. It asked for a green paper on rural policy to be presented upon which effective planning could be carried out. In relation to the superphosphate bounty it preferred to take the advice of the Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which indicates that the size of the task force needed to administer a tonnage limit farmer claim system could not be justified, that the complexities of establishing a per farm system would be great given such potential inequities as partnerships and so on. 
The farm management adjustment changes that may have occurred since the termination of the bounty in December 1974 will now cease because of the interim restoration of the bounty. That is to be regretted. The re-introduction of the bounty- one of the few election promises carried out by the Fraser Administration- is and was a cynical attempt on behalf of the Liberal and National Country Parties to appear genuinely interested in the suffering of the small and needy farmers. If they were interested in this group of the rural community, an alternative measure based on a means test and giving a greater sum of money per tonne of superphosphate would have been a more effective way of giving financial assistance to those in need. No assistance of this kind will provide a long term benefit to the rural industries involved unless it is supplemented and complemented by other measures, such as policies of reconstruction taking into consideration, among other things, the changing markets which are now involved. Primary industries, which account for about 50 per cent of our export earnings, cannot continue to be subjected to ad hoc legislation of this type which do not deal with the rural problems which beset the industry. 
I think that most of us who had the opportunity to see the  Monday Conference  program last evening will appreciate the need for us to make a much more fundamental analysis of the economics of our rural and secondary industries. The argument that we must keep people on the land is laudable but not when to do so places people in rural industries in a continual state of poverty, unable to acquire and maintain a reasonable standard of living. The Henderson reports which deal with poverty in the rural areas, and the Henderson report which specifically sets out where need has to be recognised by government, have to be examined by the Government. It is unconscionable to maintain people in a feudal state for the benefit of some not clearly defined political objectives. This is what I believe the National Country Party, which purports to represent the interests of the rural community, did during the 23 years it was in office after the last World War. It has applied itself to ad hoc legislation. It has applied itself to filling a gap when a problem developed. It has not really and sincerely got down to examining the base problems facing particular rural industries for the purpose of bringing about finally a proper restructuring of those industries. 
No logical or rational economic argument has been advanced in either the House of Representatives or this place to support this bounty. If superphosphate users are to be subsidised, why are not the users of expensive chemicals, such as orchardists, or poultry farmers who use expensive feed, being subsidised? Why is it that a particular user of a product is isolated and given a benefit? As I pointed out earlier, the aims of the legislation which was introduced almost 30 years have long been realised. The viability of industries which use superphosphate is not increased by the bounty. Those who are against the subsidy have argued about the views expressed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and about the dissenting opinion of  Mr Robinson  of the Industries Assistance Commission in his interim report. The full report does not provide an argument for the continuation of the subsidy, though as an interim measure users of superphosphate were given the benefit of the doubt. Of course, it is on that basis that this Government has introduced this legislation. 
The Green Paper on rural policy in Australia indicates that there is a conflict between the original aim which was to increase the use of superphosphate and the present aim which appears to be to reduce the cost of production. In that regard the whole question of marketing does not receive very much consideration. Some agricultural economists argue that measures such as bounties should be used to stabilise incomes and to cushion the effects of variations in production or in the market values of the produce. The bounty is not related to primary producers' income. It is not so related. It is related to use. There is no protection against over-use which, in certain instances, has resulted in people who are referred to as Pitt Street farmers or Collins Street farmers over-using superphosphate as a means of achieving savings in taxation or other taxes, without considering whether there is a market for the type of produce which is encouraged to be grown by the payment of the bounty. 
The average farmer does not want handouts. That has been my experience during the 4 years that I have been a member of the Senate. Farmers do not want to be called bounty bludgers. They do not want to be victims of economic downturn of activity. They do not want to be placed in special categories. That was made evident in the program  Monday Conference  last evening. They want government assistance that will provide them with a decent standard of living. That is the basis of the policy of the Australian Labor Party to which I belong. Where is the justice in continuing to expend millions of dollars on the superphosphate bounty during the next 15 months or 16 months when the Government has saved $29m by deferring pension increases, when it has cut funeral benefits for pensioners, when it has taken away the payment of $2 a day for private hospital patients, when it has adopted a more stringent work test for unemployment benefit and when it has taken a variety of other measures to save money? 
We take the broader view that the Government should be giving the sort of assistance that will overcome the problems facing the small farmer, that need should be the cornerstone upon which rural policies are developed, and that government assistance should be given to those industries which badly need restructuring. It is in the light of that sort of public spending that we as the Opposition find ourselves in conflict with this legislation. We believe that we have consistently applied our philosophy to this legislation. Nevertheless, we believe that the Government is determined to proceed with the legislation. It is in the light of that that we believe there is something to be said for making available in a public way a list of those people who will benefit considerably from this legislation. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that our amendment seeks to have published a list of people who receive more than 400 tonnes of superphosphate in a 12-months period. The list would be small but it would give us some indication of who is benefiting from the Government's assistance provided in this legislation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-Is  the amendment seconded? 
The Opposition supports this Bill as it considers that there is a distinction between this Bill and the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. Both are based on tonnages but the disparity in acreages spread with superphosphate is greater than that for nitrogen. Generally the farms that use nitrogenous fertilisers are more uniform in size; for example, sugar, rice and horticultural farms. It can be argued that the average spread per farm of nitrogenous fertiliser is nearer the spread of nitrogenous fertiliser on the majority of farms than is the spread of superphosphate and therefore the bounty on nitrogenous fertiliser is more equitable than the bounty applying to super- phosphate, because farmers on small and medium-sized farms will benefit largely by the passage of this legislation. The total cost to the taxpayer of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy will be $12m per annum, which contrasts markedly with the cost of the superphosphate bounty. 
One would hope, in the light of the support that the Opposition will give to the Bill, that in the debate we shall not be subjected to the harassment that we were subjected to in debating the previous legislation dealing with superphosphate; that we shall not be subjected to the bullyboy tactics that we have seen applied for the second Wednesday night in succession; that we shall not have, a continuation of arrangements that are made by  Senator Greenwood-  as they were last Wednesday evening-  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Chaney,  and the arrangements that were obviously carried out in respect of the Bill dealing with superphosphate which the Senate has just considered; and that we shall not be subjected to the gagging of the debate, but in fact that we shall be - 
I think it is fitting that I should have something to say in respect of the debate which has been initiated by  Senator Baume  this evening- not to deal with the matter in any more detail insofar as the specific activity of Amnesty International, of the Australian Parliamentary Group of which many of us are members, but rather to extend the debate to the events that are taking place in Timor and to express the hope that the publication of what I have to say might also lend whatever weight is necessary to bring about a peaceful solution to the problems that beset that smali but important country to the north of Australia. 
Today, as  President  of a parliamentary group known as the Friends of Timor, I caused to be sent to the Secretary-General of the United Nations a cable for which we were able to get the support of some 55 members of the national Parliament. As  Senator Baume  indicated, we have been able to get the support of members of all the political parties that comprise the national Parliament. To date some 55 members have placed their signatures on this statement which takes the form of a petitition urging the immediate implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 384 which calls upon the Government of Indonesia to withdraw all its forces from the territory of East Timor without delay. I think the significance of this is that whilst there are 43 members of the Parliamentary Labor Party who have signed the petition, 12 members of the Government parties saw fit to be associated with this statement which has been cabled to the Secretary-General. 
We called not only for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops and the satellite Provisional Government that exists there but also for the establishment of a United Nations presence in East Timor so that there can be a free and proper vote on self-determination by the indigenous people of that territory. In addition, we asked for the establishment of relief agencies and for International Red Cross to carry out its humanitarian work in the former Portuguese colony of Portuguese Timor.  Mr President,  it may be convenient, if the Senate gives me leave, to have incorporated in  Hansard  the statement and the signatures so that it becomes a document of the Senate. I think that when issues enjoy the support of all political trends in the national Parliament it is a matter of some significance. 
THE SECURITY COUNCIL UNITED NATIONS 
As members of the Australian Federal Parliament we urge the attention of the Security Council of the United Nations to the serious situation in Portuguese Timor and we call on the Council to press for the immediate implementation of Security Council Resolution 384, in particular the call upon the Government of Indonesia to withdraw all its forces from the territory without delay, and we call for the extension to the people of East Timor of an opportunity to exercise freely their right to self-determination. 
In order that this right be extended freely, we urge that a United Nations presence be established in Portuguese Timor without delay. We also urge that access to Portuguese Timor be provided at once for teams of the International Red Cross and other humanitarian relief agencies in an effort to alleviate the suffering of the victims of this tragic situation. 
Bryant, M.P. for Wills, Vic; R. Jacobi, M.P. for Hawker, S.A.; K. Fry, M.P. for Fraser, A.C.T.; K. Sibraa,  Senator for  N.S.W.; P. Morris, M.P. for Shortland, Vic; J. L. Armitage, M.P. for Chifley, N.S.W.; L. G. Wallis, M.P. for Grey, S.A.; I. Macphee, M.P. for Balaclava, Vic; D. Chipp, M.P. for Hotham, Vic; M. H. Bungey, M.P. for Canning, W.A.; A. Missen,  Senator for  Vic; M. H. Cass, M.P. for Maribyrnong, Vic; N. Bonner,  Senator for  Qld; G. Davidson,  Senator for  S.A.; F. M. Chaney,  Senator for  W.A.; K. Martin,  Senator for  Qld; B. Kilgariff,  Senator for  N.T.; L. Johnson, M.P. for Hughes, N.S.W.; F. Stewart, M.P. for Lang, N.S.W.; J. L. McMahon, M.P. for Sydney; J. M. Wheeldon,  Senator for  W.A.; F. Crean, M.P. for Melbourne Ports, Vic; A. T. Gietzelt,  Senator for  N.S.W.; G. Georges,  Senator for  Qld; G. Mcintosh,  Senator for  W.A.; S. Ryan,  Senator for  A.C.T.; P. Walsh,  Senator for  W.A.; J. Keene,  Senator for  Qld; G. McLaren,  Senator for  S.A.; W. Brown,  Senator for  Vic; J. Melzer,  Senator for  Vic; J. Button,  Senator for  Vic; D. Cameron,  Senator for  S.A.; D. J. Grimes,  Senator for  Tas,; R. Bishop,  Senator for S.A.;  D. McClelland,  Senator for  N.S.W.; E. A. Robertson,  Senator for  N.T.; D. Devitt,  Senator for  Tas.; R. Coleman,  Senator for  W.A.; C. G. Primmer,  Senator for  Vic; K. Beazley, M.P. for Fremantle, W.A.; H. A. Jenkins, M.P. for Scullin, Vic; C. Hurford, M.P. for Adelaide, S.A.; C. K. Jones, M.P. for Newcastle, N.S.W.; G. Scholes, M.P. for Corio, Vic; M. J. Young, M.P. for Port Adelaide, S.A.; A. Whitlam, M.P. for Grayndler, N.S.W; K. S. Wriedt,  Senator for  Tas.; J. L. Cavanagh,  Senator for  S.A.; J. F. Cairns, M.H.R. for Lalor, Vic; D. S. Jessop,  Senator for  S.A.; P. Rae,  Senator for  Tas.; B. King, M.P. for Wimmera, Vic; T. Uren, M.P. for Reid, N.S.W.; J. O'Byrne,  Senator for  Tas.; R. E. McAuliffe,  Senator for  Qld; J. Mulvihill,  Senator for  N.S.W. 
I thank honourable senators. What prompted me to speak in this debate this evening- I am grateful to  Senator Baume  for informing me that he intended to raise the matter of civil liberties and the rights of people in the adjournment debate this eveningwas the receipt on the table in my Senate room today of a document with the compliments of the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia. It is an expensive publication titled  Massacre in East Timor.  It is interesting that whilst it is claimed to be issued by the Provisional Government it has no printer's imprint on it. Anybody who has had the opportunity to go to East Timor would appreciate that it is beyond the capacity and resources of the people of that former colony to print such a publication as this. Clearly it has been printed in either Australia or Indonesia. I am sure that it is more likely to be the latter than the former. It is interesting that the publication begins by showing on the main internal page a photo of a gentleman described as Arnaldo dos Reis Araujo, the  Chairman  of the Provisional Government. He seeks to express the Provisional Government's point of view about the events that have taken place in Timor over the last year or so. 
Honourable senators may be aware that in the middle of March last year five of my parliamentary colleagues from the Australian Labor Party and I went on the trip to the colony of Portuguese Timor, as it was then under the control of the Portuguese administration. We went there to evaluate for ourselves the circumstances that were leading to the tensions within the former colony. We became the guests of the Portuguese authorities who had begun the process of decolonisation, preparing the people for the act of self-determination and for independence. We went there without preconceived ideas. We went there to satisfy ourselves about the developments and to speak to all the main political groups that existed in Portuguese Timor. 
We were able to speak to the Acting Governorthe Governor arrived there only the day before we left- to the officers of the Armed Forces Movement, the Catholic Biship in Dili and to the leaders of the Chinese community. We spoke to the Central Committee of the Fretilin organisation and to the Central Committee of the UDT, which I suppose could be described as a sort of middle class party. We also spoke to the leaders of the Apodeti party, which is the party that favours integration of Timor with Indonesia. Each of those 3 political parties to which we spoke gave us the documents freely. We brought them back to this country and they are in our files. Unfortunately my copies happen to be in Sydney but I have borrowed a copy from the honourable member for Fraser,  Mr Fry,  who was one of the members of that delegation. One of the documents made freely available to us by the political groups in Timor is the manifesto and preamble of the aims and objectives of the Apodeti party, the pro-Indonesian party. It contains a short biography of the  Chairman  of the Timorese Popular Democratic Association, Arnaldo Des Reis Aranjo, and has this to say: 
After the 2nd World War, he was captured by the Portugese authorities, accused of having collaborated with the Japanese administration. He was placed under arrest - 
As it turned out the words there should have been 'house arrest'-  for 29 years, after his release from prison- 
That is the gentleman who has published this document which has been circulated to all members of Parliament today. I think that anyone who knows anything about politics at all would appreciate that the Portugese have not been renowned for their democratic tendencies. In fact they were the oldest fascist government in the world, having survived for something like 49 years. 
The colonial Administration, which was rather repressive in its behaviour, at the end of World War II saw fit to sentence thisgentleman to gaol or to place him under house arrest for 29 years. I am sure that those associated with Amnesty International would regard that as a pretty harsh penalty. Nevertheless this is thegentleman who now has the gall to circulate to members of the national Parliament of Australia documents which seek to convey the impression that the socalled atrocities that they claim to have taken place in East Timor have been carried out solely by the Fretilin movement. The facts are that when we went there in March of last year the administration was in the hands of the Portuguese authorities. It will be remembered that in July the UDT, which previously was in unity with the Fretilin forces for the purpose of the transference of political power for the act of selfdetermination and independence, broke with the Fretilin movement following a visit by leaders of that movement to Australia and Indonesia. They attempted a coup which for several weeks placed them in command of the territory of East Timor. Subsequently the coup was broken and defeated by the Fretilin forces, with the assistance of soldiers who formerly were part of and under the command of the Portuguese administration. 
I want to leave that point and to talk about some of the experiences that we had when we were in Timor in March last year because also in this document which has been circulated is a statement to which some prominence was given and which was made by an Australian who has received some notoriety in Australia. This person has been headlined throughout the world because of his allegations about atrocities and repression in Timor. I refer to none other than Rex Syddell. One of the advantages of having a somewhat untidy filing system is that some interesting items are not thrown away. It happens that on the occasion of our visit the Portuguese authorities decided to split the Australian party of six into two. Three of us went on a trip to one part of the island by helicopter- I stress that we went by helicopter because there is no road system capable of transporting people from one section of the island to the other- and three of us went to the other end of the island. We arrived by helicopter at a place called Tutuala which is on the eastern perimeter of the island. The moment we alighted from the helicopter a young Timorese person approached me, I think principally because I was the first person off the helicopter, and handed me this note which is headed: 
Rex Reckerby Kerridge Martin Syddell Tutuala- Timor Portuguese 
That is the heading of the letter. It is part of the letterhead and the letter is dated 19 March 1975. 
This is what he said in the letter: 
Gentlemen, 
As an Australian now retired here in Tutuala I apologise for any discourtesy on not being present at your arrival today due to my Cardiac condition and at the moment on medical advice being prohibited from walking more than 50 paces a day. 
If you can spare a little time you are cordially invited to visit my wife andI just behind the church as 1 may be able to add some additional information in your factfinding tour not available to you currently. 
Your visit to Timor is indeed a much needed tonic for the people as endorsed last night on the local Dili Radio. 
If you cannot make it please leave me the Member, Title and address of your 'Mission' that I can write to you back home in Canberra. 
Being Australians and receiving a note stating that an Australian wished to see us we naturally accorded him our first few minutes in that part of the island. We went up and had tea and coffee with him and enjoyed his hospitality for a short time during which he plied us with questions and gave us some information. The interesting thing is that he made some rather alarming statements to us. He told us, for example, that he had information from Central Intelligence Agency agents. I want to assure the Senate that I checked out my recollection of this matter with  Senator Mcintosh  and  Dr Richard  Gun. My recollection of the discussion can be confirmed by discussions with those two gentlemen. He said that the CIA agents had informed him about Indonesian troop movements along the border and gave us the impression that Indonesians were prepared to invade East Timor. He said he had been in touch, by correspondence, with prominent people in Australia about this matter. The interesting thing is that this gentleman,  Mr Syddell,  who made these wild allegations several weeks ago claimed that in Jakarta he had certain documentary evidence in respect of the events in Timor. He said that it was buried in graves in Timor- he made the statements from Jakartaand that he wished to present evidence to show that the Fretilin forces were those responsible for the atrocities which obviously have not been published in this document. 
I find this very interesting because, when we were there,  Mr Syddell  indicated to us that he had contacts in Australia with people in high places. He indicated to us that he was sympathetic to the independence movement, that he had no time for Indonesia and that we should use every endeavour possible when we returned to Australia to alert the Australian people to the possibilities of an invasion by Indonesia. The next time we heard about him, he was in Jakarta where he was making these claims about Fretilin forces and was making statements which are now published in this document. 
It would be interesting, senator, if you would listen and not have a closed mind as obviously you have. It is interesting that on the second occasion when we went to Timor in September  Mr Syddell  had sent several cables from Tutuala. He had certain radio links. He was able to tell us some of the events which had taken place in Australia in the week that we had been up in Timor. He was a very well-informed person. One interesting fact about  Mr Syddell  is that he sent cables to an Australian journalist living in Dili, during the period when we were there in September- she was there until November of last year- in which he asked her for her help because his pension cheques had not arrived from Australia. He asked her to do what she could to try to chase up the Australian authorities as he did not have much ready cash and his pension cheques had not arrived. In these several cables that he sent to this Australian journalist, he made no mention about duress or any allegations about atrocities. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that on the second occasion when we were back in Timor in September the Fretilin forces had been in control of Timor some several months. 

 Mr Syddell made the statement that he was a very sick man and he was not able to do very much to help himself. That appeared in his request for assistance to the Australian journalist. Before we know very much more, this gentleman is in Jakarta. He then flies to Australia, has a Press conference in Sydney, comes to Canberra and talks to officers of the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Then this person, lo and behold, catches a plane to the United Nations for the purpose of presenting a point of view opposite to that of the legitimate government, the Fretilin government, which proclaimed its independence in October of last year. This is the gentleman who could not walk 50 paces to meet us at the helicopter. This is the gentleman who is relying on pension cheques to keep him alive. He suddenly finds the funds to go to Jakarta, Australia and the United Nations. He is the one who tells these wild stories of socalled actrocities and repression under the Fretilin administration. 
I have tried to establish what I could about  Mr Syddell  as I was disturbed to read what he had to say. It is interesting that, when he was a resident of Darwin several years ago, he claimed to be working for an Australian intelligence organisation. 
I do not know what sort of a 'nitty-gritty' or a Walter Mitty he might be. But he is a very peculiar sort of individual who is so sick that he cannot travel and then can travel half way round the world, who has no money but suddenly finds money, and who tells us- the 3 members of our party can confirm this to any inquiry that might be held- that the Central Intelligence Agency was involved in the activities of the Indonesian invasion. He then lends himself to a story about atrocities and seeks to convince the Australian people that the provisional government which now has temporary control of Indonesia ought to be supported. 
I believe that when the Australian Government made its declaration about Timor in November last year it ordered all Australians to leave Timor. It refused to guarantee the safety of any Australian. Honourable senators might recall that only one Australian that we knew of at that particular time, Roger East, a journalist from Darwin, stayed in Dili and he was probably shot by invading forces from Indonesia on the day on which they marched into Dili or paratroopers were landed in Dili and troops came ashore from the naval base. It is interesting that  Mr Syddell  was not brought out of Dili. All of the medical and humanitarian aid groups with which  Senator Baume  had been associated and the various relief agencies which Australian aid organisations had provided had withdrawn from Dili virtually under instructions from the Australian Government, but  Mr Syddell  stayed there. 
I have no doubt at all that  Mr Syddell  had some intelligence gathering mission in Portguese Timor- in East Timor. I have no doubt at all, based on what I recollect of the discussions that I had with that gentleman and in the subsequent statements that he made, that that gentleman has had some association with intelligence gathering in this country. I am told for example, and I am concerned about this, that when there was some doubt about the validity of the Fretilin claim about Indonesian planes, troops and warships appearing off their territory which of course borders on to East Timor- we remember what happened to the 5 Australian journalists or newsmenat our naval headquarters at Shoalhaven in New South Wales over our naval radio, which was daily monitoring the troop movements taking place in East Timor, the Indonesian order to shoot the Australian newsmen was actually heard. Yet no government has been preparedthe past Government or this Government- to tell us what has happened. 
Five Australian journalists were shot down in cold blood. I have been told on reliable information that that information was heard on Australian radio at Shoalhaven. The order went out to kill the Australians because Australia was taking up the issues about the rights of people. I pay tribute to  Senator Bonner  and Ken Fry who came with me to Timor on the second occasion. Even if it were left to the personal initiative of individual members in this Parliament we were still keeping the Australian flag flying in respect of our desire for the rights of people to be upheld. Yet there has never been a satisfactory answer given to the Australian people or to this Parliament, by either the last Government or this Government, about what happened to those Australians. The only voice that has been raised has been that of the Australian Journalists Association and it is to our everlasting shame that such a situation should be allowed to continue and that we have never demanded the return of those bodies, that we have never demanded an explanation of how these people were shot in the back and buried in a common grave in that part of East Timor. 
What has happened? I put  Mr Woolcott,  our Ambassador in Jakarta, in the category of being one of the guilty men. There are people who have blood on their hands in this issue. He sent a cable to  Mr Peacock  suggesting that the Australian Government should lay low in respect to the issue of East Timor. To the everlasting credit of some individual, that cable was leaked so that we knew what the Department of Foreign Affairs was endeavouring to do. It was also endeavouring to influence the attitude of the Labor Prime Minister and the Labor Government prior to the dissolution of the Parliament on 1 1 November last year. This document I have before me states that all the people shown on itthey were Apodeti members- were detained in Dili, that they had been taken away by the Fretilin's gang. The second name there is Jose Fernando Osorio Soares. I am not able to pronounce the name properly because I am not a linguist. However, that gentleman is the secretary-general of the Apodeti party.  Mr Fry, Senator Bonner  and I were in Dili in September of last year. I cannot be sure whether  Senator Bonner  was with us at the time when we were sitting in the Hotel Dili talking to the doctors who are friends of  Senator Baume.  Sitting at the next table having a cold beer, as Australians normally would do, was this gentleman, the secretarygeneral of the Apodeti movement. He was alive and well and freely able to move about under the administration of the Fretilin party. This document is a tissue of lies. The Indonesian Government ought to hang its head in shame over it. It is a document that perpetuates the lies that have been poured out on Indonesian radio over the last year or so. 
For example, in September when  Mr Fry  and I asked to go as far forward as we possibly could to look at the areas which we had read in the Australian newspapers were in the hands of the Apodeti, pro-Indonesian forces, we went to a town called Suwai. We flew over the mountains into this town in a small 3-seater aeroplane from Dili. We walked from the airport to meet the people at the Catholic mission and hospital that is operating there. According to the Indonesian propaganda, it was in the hands of the people favouring the Apodeti movement. They said that it had been taken away from the Fretilin government. 
We spoke to a dear old aged nun who must have been in her late 80s or early 90s. She spoke just a little English. We spoke to some of the teaching brothers. We spoke to the priest in charge of the hospital and the mission. We had cups of coffee. They even opened a can of beer for me and Ken Fry had a whisky. We enjoyed their hospitality for several hours because whilst we were there a lady, a Timorese person, was in the hospital with very serious complications following a birth. We were told that unless she was got back to the Dili hospital that evening she would not live more than 24 hours. So we surrendered our aeroplane for her to be flown back to Dili. We stayed to talk to the people in that village, in the hospital and the church. I can only repeat what was an experience. Honourable senators can take it or leave it. We asked them questions in English and they replied to us in English. They had not even heard a shot fired. They had not seen anything of the war. They had very little knowledge of the events that had taken place, even though one of the priests seemed to indicate a certain affinity with the Fretilin movement in a personal capacity. I want the Senate to realise what propaganda can do, what distortion of the facts can do and what withholding of the facts can do in creating a climate of opinion in respect of the aspirations of people. 
I know that honourable senators are weary- it has been a hard day- but I should like to conclude by referring to a statement that was made by another one of the Leaders of the Apodeti movement,  Mr Lopez  da Cruz, the  deputy  leader of the pro-Indonesian provisional Government of East Timor. He was quoted as having told a Press conference in Jakarta that there had been some 50 000 to 60 000 victims of the fighting in East Timor. I remember that last year, when I was asking a question of  Senator Willesee  in this place,  Senator Carrick  made some disparaging remarks about the 40 000 refugees who were alleged to be inside the border of Indonesia. They represented, he said, a very large proportion of the population of 600 000 in that area. Of course they represent a very large proportion of the population. But  Mr Lopez  da Cruz, who has been in Indonesia and who is now a member of the provisional Government, said at a Press conference in Jakarta that there had been some 50 000 to 60 000 victims of the fighting in East Timor and that many of them were women and children. He was quoted by  Mr Hamish  MacDonald- I think he is a reporter with one of the Sydney newspapers- as having said: 
Excesses often occur now as a revenge for Fretilin's cruelty when it was in power. 
My colleague  Senator Primmer  recently asked, through  Senator Withers,  a question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
In response to its inquiries in Jakarta, the Government -  that is the Australian Government-  was informed that the .figures of 50 000-60 000 mentioned by  Mr da  Cruz related to victims of the fighting since it first began in August 197S, and that the figures included the 40 000 refugees who fled to Indonesian Timor in August and September, as well as others displaced from their homes as a result of the fighting. Mention was also made of mass graves discovered at Aileu and Bobonaro after their capture by PGET forces from Fretilin. 
What sort of information is the Government getting from its sources of information in Indonesia or, for that matter, from any other intelligence gathering source? Less than a fortnight ago the same gentleman- he was one of the gentlemen from Apodeti who handed us this booklet- was quoted again as saying that he had told the Press in Jakarta that some 50 000 to 60 000 people had been massacred. It is interesting to note that he does not acknowledge that those figures included the 40 000 people who the Australian Government said were part of the total number of people who had been affected by the war. I think there is something to be said for the Senate knowing something of the circumstances of the events in Timor and of the silence of the Australian Government about the invasion - 
Both governments-the previous Government and this Government. I am not prepared to defend indefensible positions. 
The Australian Government- period- has been inactive. 
It ought to be ashamed of itself for its failure to take a principal position. I know it can be argued, and it has been argued, that we had no particular interest in that area because it was a colonial possession, but if Australia holds to that argument how much more does it apply to the actions of the Indonesian Government? If we take a position of principle that we do not interfere because it is none of our concern, how much more correct are we in demanding that the Indonesians have the same standards in respect of the rights and aspirations of the people of Timor? 
I think there is need for an explanation by the Government about our intelligence gathering in Timor over the last year, about the reports that have been given to the Australian Government. I believe that they were doctored reports. I found that I could not make much headway against  Mr 
Whitlam 's understanding of the problem because those reports were doctored. I am prepared to believe that  Mr Syddell  if he is not a member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, has some connection with that secretive organisation called ASIS- Australian Security Intelligence Service- which is part of an organisation that has been set up for intelligence gathering within the Department of Foreign Affairs. I trunk this Parliament is entitled to know where the Australian Government is getting its information, particularly when we are concernedSenator Baume was correct when he said we are concerned- about political persecution, about oppression, about the rights of people. How can we be indifferent to the 600 000 people who are in a certain stage of their development - 
Next door neighbours too. These people are part of our responsibility in our region. They only want the right to determine their affairs, a right which we have fought for and won and hope to hold in our own country. How can a government remain indifferent to the very important principle upon which the United Nations is founded? I want to leave that thought with the Senate and I want to encourage honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives to take their own personal initiatives on matters of foreign affairs. Do not leave it to the bureaucrats and the intelligence gatherers and those who make decisions which affect the rights of others in secretive sorts of ways, where the Parliament and the people of Australia are denied legitimate access to information on the course of events that are taking place. 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government has considerable involvement in the development of the Botany Bay area of New South Wales through the proposal to lease a container terminal for the Australian National Line, through Commonwealth aid to the rail and road infrastructure and through the future development of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? What assurance can the Minister give that there will be an opportunity for public discussion and debate on these projects having regard to the community interest which is being expressed at the present time? Will the Minister have discussions with his State counterpart on the possibility of establishing a joint land use transport study for the Botany Bay region? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am encouraged to do so by the Senate's interest in the rights of individuals. Has the Government been informed by its embassies in Jakarta, Lisbon and Geneva of the mounting evidence showing that the 5 Australian newsmen were brutally murdered by Indonesian forces on 16 October 1975 and were not burnt to death as claimed by Indonesia? Can the Minister advise the Senate when the personal effects and documents were received by the embassy in Jakarta and what information was passed on to the Australian Government? Does the Minister recall that this evidence now confirms the Fretilin statements and similar views published in the Indonesian Press  Kompas  last October by  Mr de  Cruz, leader of the UDT and a member of the pro-Indonesian Government in Dili? In the circumstances and having regard to the inadequate explanation and information given to the people of Australia about the 5 deaths, will the Government take steps to recall  Mr Woolcott,  our ambassador in Jakarta, so that a proper inquiry can be conducted in Australia, not by a Foreign Affairs group but by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence or by the Senate itself? 
I present the following petition from 54 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
Omega Station in Australia 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I hope that he will be able to give as competent an off-the-cuff reply as the Minister for Science gave to the previous question. I refer to the statements made by the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council,  Mr 
Dingwall, indicating that the limits set by the Australian Meat Board for the export of quota meat to the United States of America are at this time too high I ask the Minister: What effects will the Board's decision have on the operations of the Queensland and northern New South Wales meat works whose operations commence later in the year? With the probability that the quota will be filled earlier than planned, is not the Board's decision effectively excluding the Queensland and northern New South Wales meat works from the higher priced meat market of the United States, to the detriment of the meat producers in those areas? Will the Australian Government give a directive to the Australian Meat Board to review as a matter of urgency the current United States export limits set, in order to prevent the needless discrimination against sections of the meat producing industry which are likely to be confronted by a drastic slump in Australian cattle prices later this year if immediate action is not taken? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Why has the environmental impact study completed by the Australian National Line on its container berth development at Botany Bay not been tabled in the Parliament? Did the Government accede to the request of the New South Wales  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Punch,  to delay presentation of that report until after his recent personal public relations inspection of Botany Bay and until after the New South Wales State election? 
At the outset I say that I propose to speak to this money Bill substantially on the subject matter which I proposed to discuss yesterday because of the events which have unfolded in recent weeks. The subject relates to the Government's economic policies and new federalism which we believe requires us at least to present our point of view in Parliament. We believe steps might well be established not only for new principles in terms of relationships between the respective arms of government- those principles we will not oppose- but also forms of taxation which will militate against the best interests of those other forms of government. Of course, we use the forms of the House to do that. 
Already I have heard some criticism from those Ministers for whose portfolios I have responsibility in a shadow capacity that Bills relating to primary industry are being held up because members of the Senate are using their time to debate matters which are not necessarily related to the matters before the chamber. I think it has to be stressed that this is one of the forms which members of the Parliament may utilise to express a point of view. If other avenues of expressing those points of view are denied to the Opposition and to honourable senators then they must use the forms of the House. 
If the debate yesterday had not been gagged I would have been able to say what I wanted to say at 20 minutes to six last evening and I might well have completed the contribution that I wish to make on this important question of federalism and particularly the impact that it will have in the whole area of taxation. That importance, of course, is enhanced by the very substantial view which is expressed in the political arena in New South Wales and in editorial comments in our newspapers. As the editorial writers have endeavoured to influence the views of people who will go to the polls in New South Wales on 
Saturday, I think it is quite proper and responsible that members of this Parliament should have the opportunity to present their viewpoints in this forum. We have seen the use- maybe some would say the gross misuse- of the debate on the motion for the first reading of money Bills for the purpose of presenting general topics for debate. To the degree that that practice will be persisted with, we will have to enter the debate to answer those contributions as well as to present our own philosophical point of view. 
I regret that yesterday on the first occasion in the life of this new Parliament on which the Opposition presented a matter of urgency we were cut off in the prime of our debate, as I might put it. In the previous 3 years the Government parties when in Opposition used the forms of the House to bring up matters of urgency Wednesday after Wednesday when the Senate proceedings were being broadcast in an endeavour to obstruct, which is the construction I would put on it- certainly to examine very critically- the policies of the Labor Government. So on the first occasion on which we used the forms of the House we were denied the opportunity of presenting our total position. That is a matter of regret So we must use the forms of the House that are available to us today. 
As the  Sydney Morning Herald  has said, and as has been said by many speakers in the debate, one would imagine that federalism has suddenly become the panacea of all of the economic problems which are bedevilling government in this country and that suddenly a new economic Messiah has emerged from the ruck.  Senator Carrick,  who has been given credit for this federalism policy, is suddenly regarded as a person who has thought up a concept which, we were enjoined to accept yesterday, will solve all the economic problems that exist between the 3 arms of government. In his contribution to the debate  Senator Missen  spoke at great length about the Canadian and American experiences. What he did not and obviously has not understood, and what he did not explain in his contribution, is that the legalities of the way in which the federalist system operates in Canada are not applicable to Australia because of our constitutional restrictions. If the United States is to be regarded as displaying a step forward in the evolution of relationships between the different arms of government then clearly it is remarkable that in that country about 33 per cent of the gross domestic product comes in the form of taxation, whereas in this country even under Labor, only 30 per cent of our gross domestic product comes from taxation. This, in fact, would indicate that we were correct in lifting that figure from 25.7 per cent in 1972, when we first came to office, to some 30 per cent. That seems to be part of the trend that is taking place in the world. One can only say, when listening to the contributions that are made in this place, how quickly members of the Government parties have seized upon federalism. They suddenly have developed a new philosophy. They believe that what  Senator Carrick  has put forward will, in fact, create a whole new area of relationships between the various arms of government in this country. 
The  Sydney Morning Herald,  which is noted for its conservatism and for its editorials at the time of a federal, State of local government election enjoining the people to vote in a certain way, in its editorial today states:   . . attitudes to the 'new federalism' are of great importance in this argument.  Sir Eric  Willis fervently supports the Fraser Government's commitment, overwhelmingly endorsed in the December election, to reverse the centralist trend of the Commonwealth Governments (of both parties) since the war. 
I want to take the editorial writer somewhat to task for his approach. We have had the centralist label- I think there is no other way to describe it- pinned on our lapel by our opponents, whether they be in the media or in the Parliament or wherever conservatives abide in this country- and, let us face it, they are everywhere, and that is part of our problem as a party of social reform. I put it to the Senate that the legislative program with which the former Labor Government was associated did more than any legislative program introduced by any other government in the history of Australia to transfer powers and decision-making processes and to allocate responsibility in the form of recommendations to the grass roots levels. 
I refer honourable senators to the Australian Assistance Plan and to the fact that that plan enjoys very warm support in many centres of Australia where some genuine endeavours were made to get this project off the ground. Members of the National Country Party, in particular, ought to be aware of the support that exists for this project in various local government areas of New South Wales. I can speak only of my own State but I am sure that it applies generally throughout Australia. The Australian Assistance Plan and the area improvement schemes have proved to be popular. These schemes were innovative. It may be argued that they were experimental. They were not necessarily the perfect structure or form but they were an endeavour to take away from the centre the important question of determining responsiblities, priorities, and the allocation of funds. We were the first national Government in Australia's history to establish the important link with local government which had been ignored in the post-war years by the Liberal-National Country Party government settled, as it was and is, in Canberra. Our endeavours to set up land commissions and to place new emphasis on housing were part of a process of devolution of power. They were part of a general decentralisation process, not part of the bureaucratic control which has been suggested by many of the speakers in the debate. Of those who contributed to the debate yesterday, I have this to say -  (Quorum formed) 
I thank  Senator Wright  for improving the size of my audience. I am discussing the important questions of financial relationships, taxation and federalism. As I was pointing out, speakers on the Government side have utilised every opportunity to attack the Whitlam Government by suggesting that it was creating some monstrous bureaucracy in Canberra. Such was the state of the nation in terms of the lack of public facilities and the very badly run down public sector of our economy that it was essential at the outset to bring about some centralisation so that we could introduce essential decentralisation. That has been part of the world trend. There is no doubt that the development of the economy which has been described as capitalism has as one of its principal features in its developmental stage the bringing together of all the strands into a strong central government. 
Once having reached that point of centralisation, it is essential that the community and political parties should find the forms for a decentralisation of responsibility and a decentralisation of power. To suggest that federalism, which is an outmoded form in the evolution of our society, is something new or is something that can be accepted as the way forward for Australia does not attempt to grapple with the essential reorganisation which should take place within our society. The  Sydney Morning Herald  loves to get across anti-socialist propaganda, as indeed do many members of the Government Parties, not recognising that in the ideals of socialism are expressed an extension of the democratic processes, and extension of the decentralisation of power and responsibility and, in fact, a society upon which will be based the social and not individual ownership of the means of production and the right of people at the grass roots level to participate in all of the decisions which should be taken in the very complex industrialised societies which now predominate in the Western world. 
The Senate will accept that yesterday was the first occasion when the Parliament had had the opportunity to debate these essential questions and that these new philosophical emphasis which the Government Parties claim to be espousing have not been a matter of public debate or of parliamentary debate. Therefore, the Opposition, whether  Senator Wright  accepts or rejects our point of view, was acting within its areas of responsibility and obligations in ensuring that the Parliament had some opportunity to debate these very important questions. After all, this is an area of public interest. It is an area in which decisions have to be made which will affect considerably the living standards of the Australian people. If incorrect legislation and policies are applied, it will have detrimental effects upon local government, State and Commonwealth relationships. I find it very difficult to understand how  Senator Wright,  as the representative of one of the smaller States which can be likened to Oliver Twist always asking for more, can take the position that he took in the debate yesterday, a debate which he alleges had some relationship to the election in New South Wales. There is an obvious area of conflict in regard to Commonwealth-State relationships. 
I say this to  Senator Wright:  If in fact New South Wales is to receive more Commonwealth funds, it is clear that the other States must receive less or, alternatively, the whole program of Commonwealth involvement in the areas upon which we have entered in the post-war years will have to be set aside. It was the former LiberalNational Country Party Government of which the honourable senator was a member which decided to enter the area of education, I say, for purely opportunist reasons. It saw that there were votes in the State aid issue. That is why it acceded to the demands for Commonwealth involvement in education. 
-I do not want to enter into the controversial area of State aid or of schools generally. I support substantially the principle upon which the Australian Labor Party need concept was injected into the area of education. But if we examine the position back in the 1950s, we find that there was no Commonwealth involvement of any substance in education, except within its territories and for very limited moneys made available to the States. In his wisdom  Sir Robert  Menzies recognised the need for the Commonwealth to spend more on education. I say that it was for opportunist reasons, but that is my view. He may well have taken that viewpoint for other reasons. Of course, the position substantially is that in the 1972-73 Budget-the last Budget of the conservatives before the change of government- the Australian Government made available $442m for education. I ask honourable senators to compare this amount with the amount of $ 1 ,908m which is the amount which my Party when in government allocated for spending on education in its 1975-76 Budget. That amount represents a 5 -fold increase in funding to the States for education. I find it inconceivable that during a period in which we have a large number of protest groups and different interest groups- whether they be composed of teachers, parents, sociologists or educationalists generally- requiring the maintenance of this sort of allocation for education, members of the Government Parties, such as  Senator Baume  and to some extent even the Minister for Education, can decry, as  Senator Baume  did yesterday, the degree to which the previous Government became involved in increasing funding to the States in particular areas such as education. 
I wish to make a point which I believe is essential to the whole argument of centralism, decentralisation and taxation. Let us look at the areas in which my Government increased public spending over the last 3 years. As I said, it increased spending in education 5-fold. In public health, 4 times the amount of money was spent than was spent by the previous government in 1972-73. In social security and welfare we doubled the sums of money that were paid. We did this not only in terms of the amount of money that was made available by way of pensions, whether the recipients of these sums were war pensioners or otherwise, but also in the whole area of welfare generally. 
Sitting suspended from  12.4S  to  2.15  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the 1975-76 Budget brought in by  Mr Hayden  and to the increased payments to the public sector during the period of the previous Labor Government. I was doing this because it might be remembered that  Senator Baume  particularly, as well as some of the other Government senators, was stressing that the deficit of the Australian Government last year was perforce a bad development, that it should be reduced and any increase in it avoided. I was pointing out that in the area of education, for example, the Whitlam Government contributed 5 times the money that was made available in the last year of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. 
The amount increased from $442m in 1972-73 to $ 1,908m in 1975-76. In the field of health-I do not think anyone would disagree that money should be spent on public health- there was a great increase in expenditure. It was 4 times as great as it had been previously. Twice as much money was spent on social security and welfare. We make no apology for the new pensions made available to supporting mothers, deserted mothers, deserted fathers and so on. In the area of housing the Whitlam Government increased payments to the States. That needs to be stressed, because it is in the area of State and Commonwealth relationships that the previous Government is being criticised very severely by Government senators. Payments went up to more than 8 times what they were previously. They increased from $77m to $633m. In the area of urban development the increase was more than 9 times in the 3 years of Labor Government. 
In the light of those sorts of increases we have been assailed by the conservatives, wherever they exist in the community- in newspapers, in the media, in the Parliament and in the community generally- for spending so much money in these important areas. I believe that this Government will be forced to accommodate the same sort of demand as the previous Government had to accommodate to make up the very serious lag in public works and social welfare which had been a characteristic of both Commonwealth and State funding in the whole of the post-war period. 
In a newspaper article of 2 April of this year the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is reported as saying that there was a need for the Government to develop a new attitude to government spending. The article reads: 
There has to be a new attitude in this country towards Government spending, '  Mr Anthony  said. 
The previous Government built a mentality in this country where all you had to do was to ask for more and more and the Government would supply it. 
Every single one can be looked at, said  Mr Anthony,  and found worthy and justifiable but it is the total situation that has to be assessed. 
We have to get Government spending down and productivity up. 
Obviously he does not convey that sort of thinking to  Sir Eric  Willis,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  or to the other State Premiers. The new federalist policy is being developed allegedly for the purpose of making money available to the States to provide the States with the ability to provide services to the communities in their respective areas. I can never understand the logic of the conservatives who suggest that if the Australian Government spends more money it is inflationary but if the State governments spend money it is not inflationary. The whole purpose of the federalist policy, as it has been expressed in the few handouts of the Liberal and National Country Parties and in the public pronouncements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and its architect,  Senator Carrick,  is to give the money to the States. 
The Prime Minister has talked about making more money available to the States and, according to his several pronouncements, he is going to put more into the pay packet, the hip pocket, of the average wage earner and at the same time maintain the services which the Australian people have demanded recognition and which they think ought to be provided in the public sector. It is just unbelievable that Government senators, particularly those from the small States, could fall for this 3-card trick. They have been conned into believing that the federalism policy will solve the problems of the small States just as  Sir Eric  Willis has been conned into believing that there is to be some improvement in State finance via the Australian Government formula about which  Senator Carrick  has spoken so often in this Parliament at question time and in debate.  Sir Eric  Willis has said that despite the Fraser Government's new federalism policy New South Wales faces the prospect of continued steep taxes or a progressive running down of services. 
I am sure it would be agreed that the purpose of taxation is to provide services where need exists, for the public sector to make available money via the taxation structures so that Government instrumentalities, whether they be Commonwealth, State or local, or public corporations can provide facilities and services so that the public is able to enjoy an improving standard of living and quality of life. Of course the only way that can be achieved is by the process of taxation. In this country, because we are more backward than many other countries, we cannot rely on profit making in any of the profit making areas of the private sector. That is left for private development. As a distinction, France has very important public corporations which supplement the taxation system. They are able to make profits available to the Government for spending. 
When governments have to rely upon taxation as the only source of revenue, how can it be argued in support of the federalism policy, which has been hailed as the answer of all answers, as the panacea of all relationships between the 3 arms of government, that the Government can reduce taxation at the national level, to which  Mr Fraser  has committed his Government? How can the Government provide more money to Queensland and Tasmania, probably two of the most vocal of the small States that I am able to appreciate? How can we provide more money for New South Wales, as it is alleged this policy will do?  Mr Willis  states in this special article which appears in the same paper that published an editorial comment today about centralism and the reason to keep an affinity between the Commonwealth and State Liberal governments that he has to try to get public recognition of the fact that the 2 most populous States- New South Wales and Victoria- are not receiving an equitable share in the split up of income tax revenue that the Commonwealth returns to the States.  Mr Willis  goes on in the article to quote figures. I shall not weary the Senate with the figures but simply state that, in terms of the current formula, New South Wales and Victoria are receiving less per head of population than other States because the whole basis for the Commonwealth-State relationships in the post-war years has provided a topping up arrangement- a special grants arrangement for the small States. 
Notwithstanding that, what the honourable senators who entered this debate yesterday and have entered similar debates on other occasions have failed to recognise is that on 19 January 1970 the 6 conservative State Premiers, Liberal and Country Party- at that stage in your State of South Australia,  Mr President, Senator Steele  Hall was then the Premier- put out a document about the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. This document pointed out that the outstanding feature of the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States in recent years had been the progressive deterioration in the financial position of the States under the Commonwealth controlled system of uniform income taxation, introduced originally as a temporary war-time measure. The document went on to produce a case for improvement in Commonwealth-State relationships. Arising out of that, the Commonwealth in 1971-72 agreed to return the payroll tax to the States and slightly to improve their financial position. 
It is rather ironical and, I think, hypocritical to hear senators indicating that the whole problem with Commonwealth-State relationships began in December 1972 when a Labor government was elected. This document was an indictment, if ever there was an indictment, of the 6 ideologically committed Premiers of this country, who belonged to the same philosophy as that of the Government parties now here in Canberra. The documents indicated the sort of problem that existed in Commonwealth-State relationships. When I referred to the document in one of my earlier speeches I was chided by senators of the Government parties in those days because they were basing their philosophy at that time on the need to maintain the existing relationships. 
What have those existing relationships meant in terms of Commonwealth-State relationships? I am sure that honourable senators opposite would not concede that the documents issued with the Budget last year are not a statistically accurate record of payments that have been made to the States and local government authorities. I refer to table 108 of Budget paper No. 7 entitled 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1975-76', which deals with the payments to or for the States and State government loan council programs. Commonwealth Government outgoings to the States in 1969-70 in their various forms of grants, revenue sharing and so on in totality represented some 35.5 per cent of Commonwealth Government income. In the year in which  Mr Whitlam's  Government left office, that percentage had been increased to 38.1 per cent. This means that the indicting document to which I referred earlier had had some effect because the Commonwealth in fact increased the payment of moneys to the States by something like 2.6 per cent and in addition made available to the States the payroll tax. 
What did the Labor Government do? It lifted this payment to the States year by year, percentage by percentage, to a higher level than it had been at the highest point in the 20-odd years in which we had had a conservative government in Canberra. In the 1972-73 Budget of  Mr Snedden  's- at that time  Mr McMahon  was the Prime Minister- the percentage of Commonwealth Government outlays to the States was at the highest point at which it had been in the post war years. Revenue then flowed to the States to the degree of 31.8 per cent of Commonwealth Government income. In the 1975-76 Budget we lifted that percentage to 41.6 per cent, which represented, in terms of percentages over the 3-year period of 1973-74 to 1975-76, an increase of 137 per cent. Over that period- according to figures which have been provided by the Parliament- average weekly earnings increased by only 70 per cent. So the States in fact were considerably better off. They were receiving in real money terms almost twice as much as they had been receiving from the previous Government. I am talking about direct grants to the Statesmoney that has been paid to the States for their own essential services and for the provision of facilities. 
Yesterday  Senator Baume  in his contribution had a great deal to say about the terrible deficit and the terrible expenditure of the Australian Government. As I have just indicated, in the last Budget 41.6 per cent of national revenue was paid to the States. I could add to that figure the payments that were made to the Australian Capital Territory and also to the Northern Territory. This outlay would then represent more than 50 per cent of the total receipts of the Australian Government. If we add to that payments that were made to individuals and institutions by the States and which are provided by the Federal Government we have the magnificent sum of 30.6 per cent of our Commonwealth revenue. We could then take into account payments made to people who qualify for building grants for hospitals, for example, payments to people associated with State emergency and welfare organisations, payments to hospitals and so on, in addition to the direct grants to which I referred previously. This gives a figure of 72.2 per cent of national revenue which goes to the State governments directly or to people in the States. This means, of course, that the Australian Government has only 27.8 per cent of its revenue to spend in its own right. 
Yet we have editorial writers writing malarky- this absolute nonsense- in what is regarded as one of the most responsible newspapers in this country. They have suggested that the States are going to get an even better deal than they are getting now. That would mean that the Commonwealth's share of its revenue- 27.8 per cent- would be reduced even further by increased payments to the States. Now, of course, we are going to decrease personal taxation. The Government is a contortionist if it can achieve all those objectives. 
This so-called federalism is one of the greatest hoaxes of this century. It is completely misleading. It misrepresents the real basic position. Of course, at election time one could imagine that  Mr Willis  would try to suggest that he is going to do very well out of this new system. But if we collect X thousand million dollars in taxation and reduce it by Y to leave more money in the pockets of the private taxpayer, which is what the Government parties have said they are going to do we would reduce the X minus Y proportion by giving more to the States. At the same time  Senator Carrick  is out on the hustings, out on the steps of Parliament House, assuring the teachers and parents of this country that there will be no reduction in education expenditure and that the Government will recognise the plight of education, of the remedial teachers and the handicapped children, and extend the many benefits which we have become more aware of as a result of the establishment of the Schools Commission. Or is the Government intending to cut back on housing? This Government has a submission before it which suggests that unless energetic steps are taken to stimulate housing this country will face the worst housing crisis in the whole of the post-war period. 
Or is the Government intending to cut back on pensions? I have been listening to  Senator Guilfoyle  fairly consistently and she gives me the impression that she is trying to retain as much as she can of the share of Commonwealth revenue for social welfare. In what areas will the Government make cuts? Will it be in defence expenditure? Heavens above, something like 9 per cent of Commonwealth revenue is allocated for defence. We should examine in more detail the 27.7 per cent of total revenue which the Australian Government has. We can take out of that 9 per cent for defence expenditure, take out the other debts and requirements for past borrowings, take out the amount given to public instrumentalities with which the Australian Government is associated and take out the public service salaries. It just does not make sense. That is why I believe that this whole argument about federalism is just a political ploy. It is just an electoral gimmick. It has no substance unless, as we asserted yesterday, there is a dramatic increase in State taxation. It might well be that  Mr Fraser  will want to honour one of his few election promises about reducing Federal taxation, but he can only do so at the expense of cutting back on his total program, his total responsibilities and his relationships with the States. 
In addition  Senator Carrick  is getting a great amount of publicity about what he will do for local government. Honourable senators should look at the sorry plight that exists in respect of local government rates. In the capital cities and rural areas they average about $5 or $6 a week for an ordinary residential lot.  Senator Carrick  says that he will also give money to local government. Of course legislation that was introduced into the House today for the first time by  Senator Withers  proposes to change the existing formula through the Grants Commission and to have a fixed proportion of Commonwealth revenue allocated to the States. I advocated, campaigned, agitated and held conferences over many years in my period in local government to get that principle established. Are Government supporters contortionists? Are they able to get more out of the cake than is there? 
Let us look at what  Senator Carrick  says of his great expectations. A special article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  concerning funding for local government states: 
The Federal Minister responsible for federalism.  Senator John  Carrick, provides little hope for them. 'In the year ahead,' he said, 'there will be no time for lavish promises. It will be a year of restraint. ' 
As honourable senators will appreciate there is a genuine fear in local government about changing even the meagre resources which the Whitlam Government was able to make available to local government in its 3 years of office. Unless substantial sums are made available to local government rates will continue to rise. That is a natural consequence of the increasing responsibility in the public sector of our country. People are demanding better recreational facilities, better libraries, better roads, better public transport, better hospitals and better schools. Many of those- not the last ones but some of those I referred to earlier- come within the province of local government responsibilities. One has to challenge and question the grounds upon which this Government bases its federalist policy. 
Let me refer to the taxation problem. I think it is right and responsible that we should be raising these matters in the Parliament prior to people voting in the New South Wales election.  Mr Fraser,  when he was campaigning last year had this to say: 
The taxpayers will keep the advantage of one tax return, but there will be a provision for the States to impose their own taxation. 
Will the State governments impose taxation for local authorities? If it is to do so it contradicts what  Senator Wright  said yesterday. He said: 
The man who raises the money should have the right to spend it. 
In the new relationship between Commonwealth, State and local government, will the local authorities impose taxes? Will we leave that to the States to make the decision? The States themselves are very centralist. They are 6 central authorities. The people of north Queensland, from where  Senator McAuliffe  comes, believe that Brisbane is just as much a bogey man and a centralist place as is Canberra. The isolation from the centre where decisions are made creates that sort of reaction. If the States are to make the decision about a proportion of the tax being allocated to local government will the States, for example, remove the existing payments which are scheduled to be made available annually to the States? Will they abolish their own State commissions, their library payments and their other subsidies that they give to certain councils based on requirements in particular areas? Will the allocation be related to the fixed percentage of income which  Senator Carrick  suggests while on the other hand the money that is already available to local government will be taken away? 
These matters have not been debated or publicly aired. Within local government there is a great deal of disquiet as to whether in fact even if the total objective of getting a fixed share of national revenue perforce through the States is realised, they might finish up worse off in terms of existing payments that are made at the moment, by Whitlam Government initiative, from the Commonwealth direct to local authorities and from the States to local authorities. I think that what  Mr Fraser  said at the Premiers Conference on 4 February is germane to the debate we had yesterday. He said: 
If a State sought to raise no taxes and just lived on what came from the Commonwealth, I suppose it would be seen to be irresponsible when the power to raise or lower a tax was there and it was not using that power. 
We were assailed in the debate yesterday for suggesting that there was a dangerous atmosphere about the federalism policy, that in fact we were giving to the States an opportunity to lift taxation and that whilst we in Canberra may take decisions which will lessen personal income tax at the Federal level we will be increasing it in the States. We are correct in asserting that in fact more taxation will be paid by the Australian people. 
The only alternative to that, if the Government continues on its present economic policy, is to reduce services which are currently being provided.  Senator Carrick  himself, as the main spokesman for this policy, has been consistently shown to be the master of gobbledegook and double talk. One only has to read his answers to questions to appreciate that he does not understand the problems and the questions that have been raised with him. When speaking about equalisation, he said: 
I repeat the unqualified assurance given by the Prime Minister and also by me in this Senate on behalf of the Government that the four less populous States which have traditionally achieved equalisation benefits under the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which was set up in 1933 by a Liberal government, will have their rights preserved in their entirety. 
How the Government can do that when  Sir Eric  Willis in particular, and  Mr Hamer,  are demanding a greater share of national revenue for their States?  Senator Carrick,  in referring to the equalisation formula, which he said will be wholly maintained, gave a clear undertaking to the less populous States that they will not in any way suffer as a result of this policy. If more money is to be made available to the States I want somebody from the government benches to tell me how it is that a dollar spent by State governments in the public sector is more inflationary than a dollar spent by the Australian Government in allocating the money in the way that it has to education, welfare and so on. 
We were subjected to the usual farrago of nonsense. It seems that what happens in the Government parties is that if a person becomes an outrageous and exaggerated spokesman for the Government, ultimately he will get a promotion into the Cabinet. That seems to be the format on which  Senator Carrick  has developed his attitudes in recent times. I see some dangerous tendencies developing in  Senator Baume,  who spent a greater part of his speech attacking centralist policies and referring to what he said was the failure to provide money to the States. I hope, through the documents which I made available, that I have shown that to be a false premise. 
I should like to refer now to the platform of the Australian Labor Party. The editorial in the Press to which I referred earlier and the contributions of both  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Baume  to the debate yesterday indicated that the Labor Party was opposed to the States. It is clearly set out in the  Australian Labor Party Platform Constitution and Rules  that we believe in constitutional action through the State and Australian Parliaments, municipal and other statutory authorities. We have carried that out in the establishment of area improvement programs and the Australian Assistance Plan. 
The whole strategy which this Government is applying to economic management principles in Australia is that government spending is creating the economic problems in this country and that it is the contributing factor to inflation. Conservatives, wherever they are, have been talking that way for the last couple of years. We sought to bring about a more equitable distribution of resources and a more equitable distribution of welfare payments. If that premise has any substance at all can someone tell me why in Sweden tax collections, measured against gross domestic product, amount to 50 per cent; in France to 42 per cent; in Canada to 39 per cent; in the United 
States of America which is the very heart of capitalism, to 33 per cent; and last year in Australia to 32 per cent? If there was any recognition of the principles upon which the Government bases its whole economic rationale and if there was any substance in the allegations of honourable senators opposite, one would imagine that those nations would be high on the list of Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries suffering from inflation. They are not. They are at the bottom of the list. When are we going to get away from this simplistic philosophy that was developed by Adam Smith a century or two ago and get down to a proper understanding of the way in which the system operates in this country- a system which relies upon capital and a system over which governments have limited power? 

 Senator Wright is the very last person who should be talking about economic management principle. He put his signature to a document in 1959 relating to constitutional rights. He supported the idea that the Commonwealth government had, under various provisions of the Constitution, legislative powers which could be exercised so as to affect the state of the national economy but that the powers collectively which the Parliament possessed did not permit the development of an integrated economic policy. That document goes on at greater length but I will not refer to it further other than to draw attention to the fact that the Government's federalism policy will give to the State Premiers an opportunity to take independent action in respect of taxation that will not necessarily be related to a national economic management policy. If in fact at the beginning of the year the Government established a fixed rate of income based on income tax then if there is a fall in farm incomes, for example, or some other fluctuation in our trade relations which affects employment and that level is not reached, what does the Government think will be the resources available to it to make up the leeway quickly in order to exercise sound management principles at the national level? 
We will be surrendering to six independent State Premiers the right to make decisions which will affect decision making about the economy. Even a conservative like  Senator Wright  was prepared to put his signature to a document relating to constitutional rights some 17 or 18 years ago. It indicates, of course, how simple the Government's thinking is; how inadequate its thinking is and how dangerous its responsibilities are when it believes that, with all the ills in the economic management field and all the ills in the relationship of Commonwealth, State and local government, all the problems will be signed away by the simple application of a federalism policy designed by one senator,  Senator Carrick.  He has not impressed us with his basic understanding of economics or of government administration since he has been in this place. 
The Senate is being asked to consider an amendment to the Wheat Stabilization Act which was first introduced by the Chifley Labor Government in 1948. The Bills before the Senate were introduced last year into the House of Representatives by  Dr Patterson  but they lapsed at the second reading stage when the infamous action of the Governor-General brought about the untimely end of the Twenty-ninth Parliament. In the circumstances, the Opposition naturally will be supporting all 3 Bills. 
The purpose of the Bills is to refine the wheat stabilisation plans currently in operation. The purpose of the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976 and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill 1 976 is to expand the definition of 'wheat products' as contained in the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1 974 and to transfer the definition to the Wheat Export Charge Act in order to include, for example, preparations which are wheat based. The legislation authorises the Australian Wheat Board to collect from exporters of wheat products the difference between the home consumption price of wheat content when the export price exceeds the home consumption price. Both of the Bills are therefore somewhat of a machinery nature. 
The transference into a charge Act- the Wheat Export Charge Act- of the power to tax exports is a machinery matter, and the Opposition agrees with the submission and the argument which the Parliamentary Counsel made available to us. The Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Bill is another refinement of a plan which has had the support of all political parties since first introduced by the Chifley Labor Government in 1948. It is worth recalling, of course, the very numerous attempts that were made in the 1920s and the 1930s, as well as in the 1940s, to achieve a more stabilised price. There is no doubt that as a result of that early legislation and the refinements which have taken place in subsequent years the community as a whole, and the rural community in particular, has benefited and is aware of the benefits of the stabilisation schemes, of the cost to the community of stabilisation, and of the cost of not having stabilisation schemes. It is one of the progressive pieces of legislation which fortunately has enjoyed a fair measure of support both in the political parties and in the community. 
Each rural scheme should not be considered in isolation, however, as benefiting or handicapping a particular section of the community; they should be considered as a part of an integrated economic policy- a policy which should seek to achieve the full and effective use of the resources of the community, equitable distribution of wealth, and social welfare in accordance with the aspirations of the community as a whole. This legislation does play some part in that aspiration. Rural policy should not be viewed as a sectional interest policy benefiting or affecting only the non-urban communities at the expense of the urban communities. Honourable senators will be hearing me express sentiments such as that more and more, because clearly we will be dealing with a lot of rural legislation in the next few years. It is not a national economic objective to raise the living standards of the rural sector of the community at the expense of another, but rather to raise and maintain the standards of all sectors of the community, and particularly the disadvantaged sectors. To that degree the Government will find that we are prepared to consider restructuring many sectors of rural production. 
We welcome this refinement to the wheat stabilisation plan currently in operation for its gives full recognition to the labour of the owneroperators of wheat farms who work very hard to achieve a successful crop. The provision for a labour component in the index used to vary the annual movement in the home consumption price of wheat under the wheat industry stabilisation plan was only nominally taken into consideration in 1968 when the Liberal-Country Party Government severed the link between the cost of production and export guaranteed prices. I think that obviously that Government was acting under bad or wrong advice at that time, although it must be stated that during the 1960s it was obvious- even to some growers- that something drastic had to be done. The Act was 20 years old and the flaws in the stabilisation scheme were pushing both wheat acreage and the level of subsidies to the industry to ridiculous extremes in the face of sharply contracting export markets. With a new 5-year stabilisation scheme up for negotiation it was thought that that was the time for action. In a rare burst of tough mindedness, as far as dealings with farmers were concerned, the Federal Government severed the link between cost of production and export guaranteed prices. This brought the minimum export prices for Australian wheat under the International Grains Agreement. 
The change in policy in 1968- it was a fairly substantial change in policy insofar as it affected great numbers of farmers- was brought about because of Treasury pressure on the Government. The cost of the labour of owner-operators was previously included in the index for home consumption price prior to that period. The Whitlam Labor Government also was victim to similar pressures in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but it began to realise that it was inequitable to pursue this Treasury line, and in 1974-75 it moved to remedy the situation. So the legislation, which is currently before the Senate and which is substantially the same as that put forward by the Labor Government in its last year of office, provides for the calculation of labour content based on the award rates paid to station hands and leading hands. 
The effects of the legislation can be shown as follows: The price of wheat in the current year should rise to 62c a tonne, which ought to have next to no effect on the price of wheat products. Of course, there is the added factor of there being probably no cost to revenue. This legislation has the support of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and the State governments. Of course, this does not mean that the wheat stabilisation scheme in operation at the moment, and including the refinement presently before the Senate, results in the best possible scheme in the overall rural policy. Nor does it follow that it is the most efficient scheme. Efficiency in any government policy is desirable. It should not be considered as an end in itself but as a means by which society can do more of whatever it wants to do which, of course, emphasises that all policy, and in particular rural policy, is concerned with individuals in the community at large. 
The need for planning in order effectively to use resources, to conserve resources, to raise the standard of living of all Australians and to create an equal society has been accepted directly or indirectly by the rural communities. Of course, it is the very basis upon which Labor Party philosophy is built. In particular, attempts to overcome the problems of rural communities in relation to fluctuating incomes and marketing problems have brought about the establishment, primarily in the last 50 years, of 1 1 boards or corporations. This has been designed to attempt to correct the imperfect free market system which operates not only to the detriment of the producers but also to the community as a whole. I think it has to be said time and again that we cannot rely upon the free marketing economy in the way in which governments in the highly industrialised West have done. They have sought to leave industries free of influences and government intervention. 
The high degree of variability in factors affecting rural incomes of itself should not be considered as making it impossible to adopt a policy which is sufficiently flexible to cater for the difficulties which occur. What has to be determined is the long term national objective of this country in respect of rural policy which I must emphasise is part of the overall economic policy. The future objective in a changing world has to be discussed, and the results of past experience have to be taken into consideration. It is interesting to note that in respect of the problems confronting the rural communities, and in particular the wheat farmers, the Australian Labor Party was the first to respond positively. It was a national Labor government during World War I that used its wartime powers to get planning into wheat growing industries. After World War I, with the assistance of State Labor governments, harvest co-operatives were established. I was surprised to find the degree of opposition that was shown to co-operatives, even at that time, by many strange political places. These cooperatives, because of the practices of wheat merchants at the time, were not ultimately successful. 
Not much credit was given to the Labor Party for the worthwhile attempts which it made in this period to try to bring some stability to the wheat industry. Of course, in the early 1930s the Scullin Government saw the need to assist wheat growers and encourage large scale production- it would appear now historically-not because of the need to support the wheat farmers specifically but to play a significant part in the Government's national economic program. Of course,  Mr Scullin  is on record at that time as saying that he believed it was necessary to do this in order to trade overseas. However, overseas influences, as most of us recognise, did not help us very much in those very difficult years, and the plan failed to produce what were probably important social objectives. 
The importance of the wheat industry is such that in 1941 when the position of wheat farmers and the problems of the rural sectors were grave, 2 supporters of the Government- one an independent whose name, I think, was  Mr Coles,  and the other a  Mr Wilson,  if my memory serves me correctly- crossed the floor to bring down the Fadden Administration. That indicates that wheat has played a fairly significant part in political developments in Australia. After World War II quotas naturally were suspended. Emergency powers ceased. There was a world wide shortage of wheat as a result of the ravages of World War II, and the Federal Government relied substantially on complementary State legislation. Notwithstanding opposition in certain quarters, the need for stabilisation plans was apparent after the War and  Mr Chifley  responded. Farmers had remembered the harsh Depression years and the difficulties which were experienced during World War II when there were labour problems of some magnitude. There was an increasing acceptance of the need for government assistance, intervention and encouragement. 
Not all of the plans proposed and carried out by the Labor Government have had the success that was desired. But I think that that has to be stated and constantly stressed in order to overcome the feeling which unfortunately exists in rural communities that Labor is opposed to farmers; that Labor has no interest in or concern for the farming or rural community. During the period in which I have some responsibility in this area I will be doing everything I can to ensure that some of these hoary ghosts are laid to rest and in fact that the rural sector appreciates that the Labor movement has always been concerned to recognise a need wherever it be- whether it be in the cities or the country or amongst rich people or poor people. If people are in need of help it is our responsibility in the Labor movement to provide assistance. 
It cannot be doubted that the response of Labor governments to the needs of the rural community in this area have been genuine, have been related to need and from time to time have met with enthusiasm even in the rural community. The National Country Party for all its reputation of representing the interests of the rural community has done little more than attempt to use its influence to continue substantially Labor Party initiatives. In this instance the Liberal-Country Party Government has taken over Labor Party legislation which was proposed and put to the Parliament in 1975. It is to be commended for doing so, but it should not consider that by doing so it has solved all of the problems of the wheat industry, any more than we did when the matter was before our parliamentary committees and our Caucus last year prior to the dissolution of the Parliament. 
The legal problems emanating from the Constitution give rise to legal loopholes in overcoming in certain instances and giving favourable conditions to the wheat industry in the operation of any stabilisation plan. I refer to the operation of section 92 of the Constitution which has been judicially invoked to confirm that trade between States must be absolutely free. No one authority therefore can place conditions for the sale from State to State contrary to the stabilisation criteria without the express co-operation and coordination of State and local authorities who would have to legislate in accordance with the overall plan and within the judicially defined constraints placed on their powers. It is not beyond the realms of possibility that community needs and aspirations may require the unfettered use of an overall power for the good not only of those engaged in rural production but of the community at large. 
Perhaps the existing powers of the Commonwealth under section 5 1 (iii) which deals with the power with respect to bounties on the production and export of goods- but such bounties must be uniform throughout Australia- and under section 99 by which preference cannot be given to one State or any part of a State, need to be altered. The practical effect of the LiberalNational Country Party new federalism on rural policy and the overall national interest and objectives not only has not been satisfactorily worked out but also has had little impact on the area to which I am now referring. In an already difficult area to achieve national powers and coordination to duplicate the problems six times and leave the overall policy to be determined by narrow parochial interest as so often happens is to abdicate totally from involvement to the detriment of the Australian economy and in particular the rural communities. 
The need for planning, of which this is but one amendment relating to one rural industry, has been accepted. We hope that it will be extended time and time again. No doubt acceptance of this principle as it relates to this legislation has occurred because of the rapid drop in rural population occurring partly as a result of industrialisation or the existence of job opportunities in the cities and partly because rural districts no longer offer the facilities and incentives for people to work there. We know that the problem in this country is not so much production of rural products but substantially how and where to market them. It is the latter that has to be assessed if the rural industries are to overcome some of the chronic problems associated with their industries and not attributed to the known variables such as failure of crops. Until such time as the burden on local governments is alleviated to enable them to provide the facilities required for rural areas to raise the standard of living in those areas- such facilities have become part of the expectation of the individual in Australia- the drift to the cities or large country towns will continue to the detriment of the small country towns and country areas generally. 
I think we must recognise that in this century there has been a dramatic and continuing decline in rural community population to the extent that today only 8 per cent of the male work force is now involved in rural farm employment. About one-seventh of our people live in rural communities while only one-fourteenth of them are associated with rural holdings. So, planning is necessary time and time again to take into consideration the factors involved in this decline. But that planning should take into consideration also the need for providing to all of our citizens the refinements that make for good living. The Bill seeks at least to do something to stabilise the incomes of wheat farmers. 
The Bill amends the revised wheat stabilisation plan of 1968. It is an improvement which caters for an equitable return to the farmer and other operators in the wheat industry. It is as such fortifying the original concepts upon which wheat stabilisation was considered desirable in 1948. It does not of itself solve the problems of the rural sector of the economy. It does not provide a much needed overall plan for the rural industries to take those industries as part of the overall Australian economy into the last quarter of the twentieth century. Notwithstanding those perhaps lofty ideals, the Opposition welcomes the legislation and will give it adequate support in this place. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I refer to the support given by the Labor Government to members of the Australian community suffering from kidney ailments or failure and, in particular, those requiring regular dialysis treatment. I ask the Minister for Social Security: Will the Government give an unqualified undertaking to continue to support the programs assisting persons suffering this disability? Will the Government give consideration to providing financial support to the efforts of voluntary organisations and individuals to provide suitably equipped holiday accommodation to persons requiring dialysis, thereby making it possible for those disadvantaged persons in the community to have a holiday away from their place of residence and the places where they normally receive treatment? 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that only one project from the third list of projects for the area improvement program for Australia as a whole has been approved and that that project involves the Baulkham Hills Shire Council? Is it a fact that the needs of all other councils were ignored in reaching that decision and that it was made without reference to the existing regional organisation of councils concerned? I ask the Minister: What are the special circumstances that permitted that council to be specifically favoured? Is it a fact that the  president  of that shire is a leading member of the New South Liberal Party? Is the Government's decision in this case an example of the political pork-barrelling decision-making process that we can now expect? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The situation in East Timor and in particular 
The military action of Indonesia and its consequent effects upon the Timorese people. 
The need for Indonesia to  repond  to the decisions of the United Nations. 
The denial of self determination for the people of East Timor and the inadequacy of the steps taken to ensure the right to determine their own future. 
The failure of the Australian Government to make a concerted effort to provide adequate communication with the people of East Timor and to provide appropriate humanitarian aid. 
During the 1950s the Parliament spent a great deal of its time debating important issues relating to events that were taking place in the Asian region. I refer to the period of the Korean war. Similarly, during the 1960s there was a great deal of public debate and debate in this place about events in South East Asia in Vietnam. I think it is a matter of regret that on the question of East Timor, which is one of the closest countries to Australia, we have not debated or publicly aired the views that each of us may have on the developments and the tragic events that have taken place there over the last few months. I would imagine that the Senate would have some compassion for and understanding of the plight of the people who live in that country and that the Senate would uphold the rights of the people of East Timor to determine their own affairs. Somebody in this country has to stand up and speak for the Timorese for never in modern history have an indigenous people been treated so brutally and found themselves outside the normal channels of assistance which is available to most other peoples and countries. 
Just 2 years ago, on 25 April 1974, the Portuguese people overthrew the fascist regime in their country and set in train an independence movement in East Timor. In the subsequent period of approximately 15 months the Portuguese authorities in East Timor began a process of decolonisation. Subsequently, however, those events unfortunately were set aside by steps which were taken by the Portuguese authorities because of divisions within their own country. I think it is rather ironic that just 21 years ago to the month a conference took place in Bandung in Indonesia, with Indonesia acting as the host country. It is probably worth looking at what President Sukarno, the then President of Indonesia, had to say on that occasion. He said: 
This is the first intercontinental conference of the so-called coloured peoples in the history of mankind. 
That was the forerunner of the non-aligned bloc of nations which occupies an important role in international affairs today. President Sukarno went on to observe that the nations participating, however, were united by more important things than their superficial divisions- he was talking of colour and race- and notably the common detestation of colonisation. There is a very unusual parallel in that region, because in August 1969 the Indonesian generals marched in and took over the country which was described at that stage as West Irian. It is interesting to read of the events of that time; one sees the parallel with the present situation, and one sees the excuse given by the Indonesian Government in taking what was in its eyes that justifiable action to annex that part of the world to Indonesia. It said that it would take it over because of the communist influence in West Irian. It is to be regretted that the Australian Government turned a blind eye to those events. Of course, we are now confronted with the same sort of situation developing in East Timor. I say without any fear of contradiction that aggression begets aggression, that violence begets violence, that lies beget violence. 
If we examine the activities during this century of the powers which are militarily inclined I think we can see that there are some dangers associated with the events that have taken place in East Timor. I cite the presence of Japan in Manchuria in 193 1, Italy going into Abyssinia in 1934, the invasion of Austria by Germany a year or two later, the invasion in 1938 of Czechoslovakia, all of which led to the greatest war ever to be faced by mankind. Yet we, the closest neighbour to East Timor, have remained relatively uninterested in the plight of those people. Certainly it is a small country of 650 000 people. Certainly it is only emerging from the stage of being a primitive society. It is a matter of regret that the Australian Government took a stand-off attitude to the divisions within Portuguese Timor. Here I make no distinction between the Australian Government which was in office in 1975 and the Australian Government which is in office in 1976. The fact is that aggression, wherever it raises its head, needs to be condemned. I condemn it whether it is in Asia, Europe or any other part of the world. Information that is reaching us indicates that approximately 60 000 people either have been killed or have suffered during this invasion by Indonesia over the last 6 months. This would represent, in terms of our population, about one million people. Yet, we have remained passive and uninterested in the events. 
I referred to the Bandung conference because it was the forerunner of a campaign to eradicate colonialism from the world. It seems ironic that that very country, Indonesia, should be the one that is now being accused of doing what is being done in East Timor. In October 1974, only 6 months after the people of Timor had been given the opportunity to be involved in the process of decolonisation, the Indonesian Security Council decided to set about the process of undermining and subverting the nationalist and independence movement. Yet, all of us have been handed a statement from the Embassy of Indonesia, dated 25 February 1975, in which the Indonesian Foreign Office states: 
Indonesia has no territorial ambitions and categorically denied foreign newsagency reports that Indonesia is planning a military invasion of Portuguese Timor in the near future. 
Indonesia has repeatedly stressed that she has no territorial ambitions, let alone on invading Portuguese Timor by force. 
Yet the evidence coming out now clearly is that 2 generals in particular in Indonesia, General Murtopo and Lieutenant-General Murdani set about, in the process of subversion, to undermine the independence movement. The propaganda that has emanated from Jakarta and Kupang has tried to present to the world at large, to the people of this country and to the 2 governments which have been in office here a position suggesting that there was some possibility of communist subversion in East Timor. 
I think that reference ought to be made to the fact that in April and May of last year the leaders of the UDT movement, who hitherto had supported the independence movement, came to Australia, visited Canberra, spoke to officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Defence and to others, then went to Jakarta, subsequently broke the coalition and, a few short months after that in July of that year took steps to wage a coup in Dili. We are entitled to ask: What were they doing in Australia? We are entitled to ask also: What did they do with Lieutenant-General Murdani and General Murtopo in Jakarta? Yet, despite all that has been said at the United Nations and in Australia, in newspapers, by political organisations and by Ministers in the previous Government as well as the present Government, and despite the condemnation that has been made of the Indonesian military intervention in Timor, we have on record a statement made on 9 April, less than a month ago, by  Mr Malik,  the Indonesian Foreign 
Minister- he was on the public record, together with his President, as saying that they had no territorial ambitions in East Timor- that there was an apparent change in Australia 's view about the way Indonesia had handled the Portuguese Timor problem. I hope that there is no change in the attitude of the Australian public to Indonesia 's intervention in East Timor. 
I make it clear that I am not anti-Indonesian. In point of fact, I participated in a somewhat minor role, after my discharge following the last war, in the famous Margaret Street demonstration which had as its aim the independence of Indonesia from the Dutch who were then the colonial power. But I am concerned, and I think rightly so, about the pussy-footing attitude that has been taken in Australia and the manner in which we have dealt with the incursions that took place in September last year on the IndonesianTimorese border and the subsequent invasion that took place on 7 December. I am disturbed, as I hope the Parliament and the Australian people should be disturbed, at the attitude that has been taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs. I know that it will be argued that we should not attack people who act in anonymity and that we do not know the people in the Department of Foreign Affairs who gave advice both to the Whitlam Government and to the Fraser Government. But without any doubt there exists within the Department of Foreign Affairs a pro-Indonesian lobby. There is no doubt that wrong advice was given to the previous Government, as I hope I will show the Senate wrong advice has been given to this Government. If any odium is associated with the responsibilities of the Labor Government in regard to the events of Timor, it most surely will flow on to this Government. This is because the same officers and officials who remain unnamed and unknown have been advising the Government in matters relating to Indonesia and Timor. 
I remind the Senate that on 7 October 1975, as a result of a request by  Mr Fry  and myself,  Mr Renouf,  the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, appeared before the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It is interesting to note that he admitted before that Committee that the Department would have to reassess its policy in respect to Timor and in respect to Indonesia. I do not suggest that  Mr Renouf  is one of those guilty persons in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
It is interesting to note that when  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack recently had this matter on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee he asked the witnesses what desk in the Department dealt with Timor. He was informed by the officer concerned that it came under the Indonesian desk. This is not accidental. In fact, it follows the pattern which has been synonomous with the attitude taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs and perhaps within sections of the Department of Defence over the last year or so. Let this Government tell us who are the pro-Indonesian officials within the Department of Foreign Affairs. Let it tell us so that we may know who is advising Ministers from time to time. 
As late as 8 April this year,  Mr Peacock,  the present Minister for Foreign Affairs, signed a letter prepared by the Department denying that it had been: 
. remiss either in its attempts to uncover the Tacts or in failing to act with urgency and compassion in the events that had taken place. 
The letter goes on to talk of the anti-Fretilin forces taking part in the assault on Balibo, but not to the Indonesian soldiers, airmen or naval forces. Yet, there is abundant evidence now provided by soldiers of the Indonesian forces who were there and soldiers of the Timorese forces who were there that, in fact, no anti-Fretilin forces were involved at the time. It was the Indonesian forces who were involved at Balibo.  Mr Martins'  visit to Australia provides a further confirmation of the stories and reports which emanated last year. Of course, they have been confirmed- I will refer to them later- by Roger East, an Australian journalist who it appears was killed in Dili the day of the invasion. The fact is that at one stage  Mr Roger  East was a full time employee of the National Party in Queensland. In fact, he ran against  Dr Patterson  in the 1 974 election which seems to me to indicate that there is some objectivity in the reports that are freely available to us. 
I want to refer to the allegations I made in the adjournment debate on 7 April 1976 and to the reports which subsequently appeared in the Australian Press. It might be said: 'How do we know that those reports appear there?'. The fact is that we have no other way of knowing what is reported, allegedly, from departmental sources. An article in the  Australian  of 9 April states: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs would not comment on  Senator Gietzelt  's allegations in the Senate and referred all inquiries to the Department of Defence. 
A Defence Department spokesman said last night that to the best of his knowledge, there was no truth in  Senator Gietzelt  's allegations. 
What were my substantial allegations? One of them was that information was received by the intelligence forces in Australia that the Australian journalists at Balibo had been shot in cold blood on 16 October and that this was heard in a radio message picked up in Australia. Yet, we get no comment from any of the departments which satisfies me or satisfies a wide section of the Australian people. One is entitled to say, on the basis of the information that is available to us, that there is something wrong with the information which is reaching the Australian Government. 
There was another report in the Press which suggested that the head of the Australian Security Intelligence Service- one of the intelligence organisations- had been sacked because of his failure to keep the previous Government informed. That report appeared, I think, in the  Melbourne Age  about October last year. We have a situation in which there are contradictions in the public statements being made by governments and in the public propaganda statements being made by the Indonesians. I do not believe that we should accept the sacrificial expedient method that has been evident in our 'hands off attitude so far as Timor is concerned. I think that is pragmatism at its worst. I would hope that the Senate would at least express an opinion that we are concerned about the Indonesian position. Indonesia has now on 2 occasions refused to withdraw its troops despite a request to do so by the United Nations. 
We are concerned initially with the problem associated with the Australian journalists. What did the Indonesian Government say about the death of these journalists? It said that they were killed as a result of mortar and artillery fire hitting a house in which they were sheltering in Balibo on 16 or 17 October.  Mr da  Cruz, the leader of the UDT, confirmed on Indonesian radio on 21 October that that is the way they were killed, according to his information. Yet, when Bob Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, went to Indonesia only a few weeks ago he was able to establish without any fear of contradiction that there was no substance in the allegations which had described the death of the 5 journalists. What did  Mr Hawke  say? He said that pictures of the house where the journalists are said to have died and their remains which were forwarded to the Australian Embassy in Jakarta were inconsistent with the story that the men had been incinerated in the house. 
The Leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions said he had pursued Australian trade union calls for troop withdrawals and said he had rejected suggestions that the Indonesian troops in East Timor were volunteers. He drew attention to the fact that the personal effects and the passports of the Australian journalists were returned to Australia intact. If there had been a fire and a house had been destroyed it stands to reason that their personal effects would not be intact. The Indonesians said that the bodies were burnt beyond recognition.  Mr Martins  said that the bodies were burnt beyond recognition. The Fretilin soldiers who were there and who escaped said in their first report that no such fire took place and that in fact the journalists were shot in the open. That has now been confirmed by  Mr Martins.  It is interesting that the journalists went there to report the events. I salute those brave men who were prepared to go to the front line, as indeed many journalists are prepared to go to the front line in order to tell the rest of the world what is happening. They went there and they were killed because they were there. They were shot because they were filming the invasion of Balibo and Batugade by the Indonesians. 
It is interesting that Roger East, the gentleman who was killed in Dili according to the information available to us, in a report to the  Sydney Morning Herald  indicated that the reports made by the Fretilin forces were substantially true. He indicated also that the International Red Cross had made last minute attempts in December last year to gain recognition for its neutral status from the UDT and from Apodeti through Jakarta, but such recognition was not forthcoming. One is entitled to draw the conclusion that Indonesia did not want anybody in Timor to know what was taking place. The Red Cross was denied official status. We had no consular representative there. In fact, the then  Senator Willesee,  asked the Indonesians to permit a representative from our embassy in Jakarta to go to Balibo and Batugade. That request was denied. The journalists were killed, and we have no doubt that genuine endeavours were made by people who wanted to know the facts but they were prevented access to those facts. 
When we were in Timor last year we did speak to the representatives of the Chinese community. I am reliably informed that the Taiwanese consul who has now returned to his country has confirmed that when the paratroops landed in Dili on 7 December last, the Chinese community came out en masse to welcome the Indonesian troops. They expressed to us that they gave no support to the Fretilin movement. They believed that they were going to be delivered from the Fretilin movement as a result of the invasion by Indonesia. The Taiwanese consul has informed his Government, so I am reliably informed, that when the Chinese people came on to the streets to welcome the Indonesian troops they were shot down in cold blood. This is a further example of the racism that has characterised events in Indonesia since the coup of 1965.  Mr Martins  has given a very full report to the various departments.  (Quorum formed)  I was referring to the fact that the Australian Government has something to answer. I am not differentiating between governments. The latest issue of the  National Times  states: 
The Federal Government should be in possession of information from its own security sources that Indonesian troops were involved in the killing of five Australian newsmen at Balibo in East Timor, last year. 
The Joint Intelligence Organisation informed the Department of Foreign Affairs of Indonesian involvement two days after the men died on October 16. 
The JIO was in possession of messages that confirmed that Indonesia knew exactly how the five men died- although Jakarta authorities have continued to deny any involvement or little knowledge. 
I think that somebody has to be called to explain to us and to the Australian people why it is that we were kept uninformed, that information was kept from the Australian Parliament, because members of all political parties asked questions in the House of Representatives and in the Senate last year and this year about the death of the Australian journalists. Let us discount any illusions about Indonesian participation in East Timor. In an article in the Melbourne  Herald last  year this statement appeared: 
In Jakarta the Government has never openly admitted to giving more than moral and humanitarian support to forces pressing for the colony's incorporation into Indonesia. 
Western journalists reported last week having seen planes and ships which could only have been Indonesian attacking the town of Atabae, which fell later to pro-Indonesian troops. 
The deputy head of the State intelligence body (General Ali Murtopo) 
I have already referred to him -  has been quoted on a number of occasions as having said Indonesia could take Timor within hours if it were determined to do so. 
In the last few days I have received a letter from a religious source in Indonesia which gives us some indication of the events which have taken place from the Indonesian point of view. Part of the letter reads: 
During the December 7 invasion in Dili, I heard there were already 10 battalions- about 10 000 people- Indonesian soldiers in Timor from the Navy, Air Force. Army, and even from the Police (Mobile Brigade). 
Now I 've heard that there are already 35 000 troops there. A big portion from all the elite/commando troops have been sent to Timor like the red berets (RPK.AD), orange berets  (Kopasgat),  violet berets  (Morps Marinir / KKo),  plus troops from Java . . . 
It is interesting to note that in the Fretilin account they identified the troops who murdered the Australian journalists as being the very same coloured-beret troops from Indonesia. The letter goes on to say: 
Actually, it is no secret any more in Indonesia. Especially in Jakarta, where the Army hospital (RS Gatot Subroto) and the Air Force hospital at  Halim  airbase is  overflooded  with war victims. And what makes it more tragic is that the families - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and is supplementary to the question I asked him yesterday about the area improvement program grant to the Baulkam Hills Shire Council. Has he had a chance to check the answer he gave with his Department, as he said yesterday he would do? Does he still maintain that his reply is substantially correct? If he has not had a chance to verify his response yesterday, will he give an undertaking to do this and to advise me today of the truth of the situation as there is considerable concern in local government circles in New South Wales about the cutbacks and the allocations? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of the growing public concern about maintenance of the Medibank health scheme? Can she give an unqualified assurance that the operation and efficiency of Medibank in providing universal health cover for all Australians regardless of their ability to pay will not be directly or indirectly jeopardised by the current steps to cut public expenditure? Can the Senate be assured that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser's disavowal of  Mr Chipp's  statement last November that Medibank would be abolished is still Government policy? 
I present the following petition from 211 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government implement the June, 1975 Report of the Schools Commission so that: 
1 ) The present level of Federal Government Education Expenditure is increased to the level recommended by the Schools Commission. 
The role of the Schools Commission as an independent statutory authority free to make its own assessment of the needs of Australian Education is maintained. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measures to interfere with the Schools Commission. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of the number of doctors who have been investigated for possible malpractices relating to the Medibank scheme since its inception 10 months ago? Will she assure the Senate that every endeavour is being made to bring to justice any doctor who obtains an illegal private gain at the expense of the community and the reputation of the medical profession? 
The legislation which the Senate is now debating is a very important piece of legislation. It represents, from the Government's point of view, an undoing or a dismantling of some of the important initiatives that were taken by the Labor Government in 1973. The Senate ought to be reminded that during the whole of the postwar years local government throughout Australia has been campaigning, agitating and pressing for the involvement of the Australian Government in the provision of funds for local government. It recognised in the post-war years that it would be essential, if local government was to carry out its correct responsibilities, for local government to receive untied grants from the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. It is a matter of record that for 23 years the Liberal-Country Party Government refused to take any steps in this direction. In point of fact, on the very last occasion on which the Australian Council of Local Government Associations sought audience from the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in 1972, he declined to see such a deputation. 
It was on the basis of the electoral mandate and program of the Labor Party put forward at the 1972 elections that recognition was given to establishing a formula and a principle involving the Australian Government in financial commitment to local government. This piece of legislation seeks to turn the clock back. It seeks to undo that Grants Commission decision in 1973 in which a formula was established which extended the general activity of the Grants Commission as it related to States to include local government. In the 2 subsequent Budgets, local government was to receive for the first time in Australia's history untied grants from the Australian Government. 
Now this coalition Government seeks to change that formula and to return the responsibilities through its so-called federalism policy to the States. This action has created a degree of dismay, uncertainty and concern in local government. It is creating havoc with respect to local government finances and planning. For example, the Bill which is currently before the Senate proposes to delegate to State grants commissions the responsibility of passing on to local government the means by which Australian Government revenue will be made available to local government. It so happens that, of the 6 States, only 2 States have State grants commissions operating for local government purposes within their jurisdiction. So complementary and supplementary legislation by the States is required. No indication is given in the legislation that the States have agreed or will agree to such a proposition. At a time when there is genuine concern about the degree of crisis that exists in local government funding, it ill becomes a government which is supposedly bringing competence and regularity in government finance into its operations that it should be introducing into this most important third tier of government such a degree of uncertainty. 
We make no bones about the fact that the Australian Labor Party was committed to the principle of untied grants to local government. It is in our policy. It is in our program. We carried that principle out. In the first year of government in our first Budget in 1973-74 some $56.3m was allocated to local government on a needs basis. The following year this amount was increased by over 40 per cent to $79.9m. That represented only a proportion of the funds that were made available to local government. Those figures represent direct grants to local government authorities. Some 800 bodies had applied to the Grants Commission which, after all, was an establishment which this and former LiberalCountry Party governments had accepted as an authoritative body in the determination of grants to the States. That very self same organisation was given the opportunity to determine the grants to local government. Some 800 bodies out of the 959 local government instrumentalities in Australia subsequently made application to it for untied grants. To the satisfaction of the great majority of local government, that was regarded as a breakthrough. 
The Australian Labor Party looks at this legislation with a great deal of concern and dismay. There is no provision in this Bill which maintains any of the principles of the legislation that was passed in 1973. It means that this Government seems to be embarking on a policy of spending the next 3 years repudiating and repealing the legislative efforts of the previous Government. If this is the way in which government is to proceed in Australia, one can imagine the sort of havoc that this will impose on governments right throughout Australia. If  Mr Wran  is to begin to repeal every piece of legislation carried into effect by the government of his predecessor in New South Wales- the Liberal-Country Party Government- governments in Australia will be spending their time repealing legislation regardless of its value or innovation. We deprecate the attempts that are being made in this legislation to change the emphasis from one of need to one of per capita consideration, which has been suggested as the only formula that ought to be applied in these instances. 
No one can disagree with the unanimous view of local government throughout Australia that there was an essential requirement for Australian Government involvement in providing funds for local government. Local government was formulated in this country in the last century in an entirely different environment from that in which it operates today. The various State legislatures in the succeeding years have amended, changed and introduced new Acts of Parliament in order to determine the activity of local government within the 6 State jurisdictions. When one looks at legislation covering local government, the fact is that one can only come to the conclusion in general that that legislation represents something of a hotch potch, something of an  ad hoc  approach and something which is unrelated to the types of responsibilities which local government has to face in the modern world. 
People do look to local government today to provide much of the better things at the locality level. One should not need to stress the point in the national Parliament that the provision of facilities at this level is for the community and is not for the local property owner. The original purpose of local government, which was to provide funds for property improvement, has long passed in terms of the historical development of Australia. In fact, local government now devotes half of its funds to providing community facilities. Its activities are no longer related purely to property enhancement which was the original concept of local government in this country. It was in the circumstances of these experiences that local government began many, many years ago to suggest that the Australian Government should allocate from the common pool of taxation a proportion of those funds to local government. 
We take no umbrage at the Government's suggesting that there should be a fixed proportion of Commonwealth revenue for local government. But what are not defined or stated in this Bill are the proportion and the principle upon which future funding will be made available to local government. I well recall in my local government years as president of a very large and growing shire convening ratepayer conferences, regional conferences of local government bodies and attending State conferences which were convened even by the New South Wales Labor Government in 1962 in Sydney for the express purpose of establishing the principle that there should be Australian Government involvement in the financing of local government and that a fixed proportion of national revenue should be made available to local government. 
Nowhere in the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  nowhere in the speech of  Senator Chaney,  nowhere in the Government's public pronouncements is there any suggestion of what this proportion will be. When the whole philosophy of the coalition Government is to deprecate public expenditure, I think it needs to be stressed and stressed again that the present Government is endeavouring to create in the Australian community the illusion that spending money in the public sector creates inflation. One needs to look at the sort of money which the Australian Government gave to State governments in the past. I think this matter is relevant to the debate because all honourable senators know that local government was funded by State governments until 1973 when a Labor Government for the first time entered the area and gave funds to local government. 
The facts are that in the last Budget of the coalition Government the States received something like $3,6 14m in total loan borrowings, grants, untied grants, etc. A Labor government lifted that figure in its last Budget, in 1975-76, to about $8,566m, which represented something like 40 per cent of Commonwealth revenue being paid directly to the States with their varied and many responsibilities. Our last Budget was a Budget of restraint, a Budget on which we were enjoined and threatened by the media and other forces that unless there was a cut in public spending there would be even greater economic chaos in this country. Even at that time the Australian Labor Government made available to local government $230m. In addition we lifted the sum for sewerage from $27m in our first Budget to $ 115m in our last Budget. That amount was made available to the various States for sewerage works. Yet it is suggested that it was because of our recognition of the needs concept for sewerage and the needs concept for local government that we were contributing to a downturn in the economy and to all the other ills which are shown up by the deficiencies in the present capital system faced by the Australian people. 
We believe that this legislation, while agreeing to the principle of a fixed percentage of personal income tax, does not take into account tax indexation. There is nothing in the legislation to indicate that the Government will in any way lift this percentage to accommodate the tax indexation which may be introduced as a result of the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  tomorrow evening. There is nothing to indicate that there will be a sum in excess of the funds that were made available in the 1975-76 Budget. So in these sorts of circumstances we are entitled to take the view that this legislation represents a retrogressive step- a step backward instead of a step forward- in providing a more substantial base for local government finance. 
There have been many committees of inquiry and royal commissions into the problems of local government funding. I need refer only to the one conducted by the New South Wales State Government. A copy of its report was made available to the New South Wales Parliament in 1967. The question of a local government grants commission, involving both the Commonwealth and the States, was relevant to the various submissions which were placed before that inquiry. The local government and shire associations made very strong submissions that there be a sharing of national taxation. It could be argued by the Government that it has taken this submission into consideration.  Senator Chaney,  in his contribution in the late hours of Thursday afternoon, 6 May, said that the question of federalism was a factor that had to be taken into consideration, that this was the new look and that this was the new way forward. Little was he to know that at the election on the following Saturday the New South Wales electors would reject the very simple way in which he had attempted to suggest that federalism was understood by the Australian people.  Senator Chaney  said: 
This concept has been well aired and discussed. It has been subjected to campaigning in the last Federal election campaign. I believe it has been widely embraced in local government circles and, indeed, in the community. 
He was not to know, of course, that the electors of New South Wales were to have a very close look at that federalism policy and were to express very genuine concern about the ramifications of that policy. Of course he was not to know that local government, in its 2 subsequent submissions to the Government and to members of Parliament, would express considerable concern. That concern was expressed in recent documents which local government has circulated to members of Parliament. I refer to the comments of Councillor Thwaites. He said: 
Ratepayers and councils throughout Australia have high expectations of more stable rates from local government's promised share in the Commonwealth Government's new revenue sharing proposals. 
It is obvious that there is considerable apprehension in State Government circles and in local government circles about the federalism policy. One needs to look only at the newspaper comments to realise that, particularly at the very reasoned comment in the  Canberra Times  yesterday by  Mr Bergman.  Time will not permit me to do other than refer to it. I put this to  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Chaney,  the 2 proponents in this place of the scheme. On 3 May Councillor Thwaites wrote: 
The whole exercise depends entirely on the level of assistance the Commonwealth Government decides to grant- and the Commonwealth will have to do some hard thinking about just what impact its promised, vital new reforms for local government will have. 
Local government recognises that the present stringent economic climate has limited its claim for 1976-77 to 2 per cent of personal income tax. The amount resulting from this will not- and this must be made very clear- mean a whole new future for local government. It will simply mean that the level of untied Commonwealth assistance in that year would be about 20 per cent of the rates which councils will be raising themselves. In other words, it will be just a little more than the expected rate of inflation. 
This means there is no magic to be expected from this new scheme, at least in these early days of economic difficulty. 
Yet it has been suggested authoritatively that the share which will be applied to the Grants Commission in the revenue sharing arrangement of the Commonwealth-States scheme will be only 1.5 per cent of personal income tax. When we presented our last Budget we were told to exercise maximum restraint. In that Budget 2.2 per cent of Commonwealth income tax revenue was being made available directly to local government. The 1.5 per cent represents a reduction of something like one-third of the funds available to local government. As this starts to filter through the process, as it starts to filter through the community, what does Councillor Thwaites, the  President  of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, say in his bulletin of yesterday? He said: 
It is still not clear, after some weeks of discussion between Federal and local government officials, that ratepayers around Australia can expect a better deal from the forthcoming Federal Budget. 
He further said: 
But there is considerable uncertainty as to whether or not they . . . 
He means this Government-  mean that the system will provide for acceptable levels in the amount of assistance that local government will get. 
I was not able to get precise figures about funds which have been provided by the Commonwealth and States to local government authorities because they are not generally available. So 1 sought the assistance of the shire clerk of Sutherland in order to get some indication of what was received from the 2 arms of government for that council's last Budget. For the sake of the record and for the sake of  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Chaney,  who I assume have a genuine interest in really solving problems facing local government in this country, I refer to the official figures which were given to me by the shire clerk. In the first instance I give to the Senate the total amount which that council received from the State government for its 1975-76 budget. 
It received from the State in direct grants $582,555. This amount is made up from local government assistance funds, which form part of the Grants Commission process which has been operating in New South Wales for the last seven or eight years. There were grants for Department of Main Roads construction, for transport bus routes, for bush fire protection, for welfare and youth work, for social workers, for after-school payments- that is after-school facilities- for vacational play centres, for library facilities, and for Department of Main Roads maintenance. These amounts totalled $582,555. They are recurrent grants. They are grants from the State which the council can rely upon from year to year. They represent sums in excess of any other moneys which are made available to local government in any other part of Australia. These payments represent the top rank of payments made by States to local government. 
Honourable senators may ask: What was the Australian Government's contribution? In area improvement programs the council received $302,000. For leisure and recreation programsthese are grants from the Commonwealth Government direct to local government- it received $66,000. In direct grants which were untied, and which the council decided how to spend, it received $600,000. For child care centres it received $100,000, and for urban and local roads it received $228,000. These amounts represented in total from the Australian Government to local government at Sutherland $1,296,000. In fact, the amount paid by the Australian Government directly to local government was more than twice the amount received from the meagre resources of the State Government. I accept that the State Government has meagre resources. 
Where in the legislation is it indicated that the States will be forced, persuaded or relied upon to continue those grants in the revenue sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States? There is no philosophical disagreement, as far as we are concerned, that there should be a fixed share of revenue given by the Commonwealth to the States, any more than there should be from the Commonwealth to local government. But unless the States give an unqualified undertaking that they will maintain their level of payments then local governments will be in a very difficult financial position. Of course, this is assuming- and remember that Sutherland received close enough to $ 1.3m- that the ratio of Commonwealth income tax will be at the 2.2 per cent level as it was last year. It has been said that that level might be 2 per cent. It has been authoritatively said that it will be 1 .5 per cent. Of course, every time that percentage drops by .1 per cent difficulties are created for local government. 
It has to be said that this legislation nowhere seeks to bring about that essential change in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. We have been attacked very strongly in this place and elsewhere on the so-called federalism policy of the Australian Labor Party. Because  Mr Whitlam  made statements in about 1957 or 1962 people accept that those statements represent in word perfect expression everything the Labor Party stands for. Basically, I do not find myself in a position which is different from  Mr Whitlam  's interpretation of regionalism. I put it to the Senate that regionalism is by far a more democratic process than federalism of which  Senator Carrick  is the main proponent in national politics today. The trend towards regionalism is evident in local government throughout Australia. Clearly, we cannot continue to have 900 local government bodies. Clearly, we have to move towards larger local government organisations. Clearly, there has to be the establishment of regional authorities by which there will be an association between the national government and local government in a proper form of organisation. 
While we admit that there may be many flaws in the process of the Grants Commission, the fact is, as  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell has indicated, that evolution is taking place, that experience is being gained and progress is being made in the regional concept. In Victoria only last year, at a conference at which  Mr Hamer  and the Minister for Local Government,  Mr Hunt,  were present, the people involved in the regional associations of local government endorsed the concept as the best and most equitable way in which funding should be arranged from the Australian Government to local government. It was based on the very principle which  Senator Carrick  and particularly  Senator Chaney  repudiated in this place; that is the needs concept. Per capita grants are not the answer, any more than we have found that per capita grants have been the answer to the States' developmental programs throughout the post-war period. We have had the Grants Commission so that special consideration, topping up consideration or needs consideration could be taken into account. It is only on the basis of establishing regional authorities that we can come to some understanding of the need for local government to look at the matters in a regional concept rather than in a purely parochial concept. We are not trying to establish a bureaucratic centralism. We repudiate the suggestion that all that has to be done is to adopt the new federalism policy which  Mr Malcolm  Fraser has espoused, a policy that is false, phony and pseudo. It does not take into account the views of local government itself. It does not in any way seek to express in this modern world the sort of needs concept which is essential if local government is to have any equalisation in terms of its responsibilities and the funds to cany out those responsibilities. 
It is in the light of this sort of experience that this legislation represents a turn back to the older methods. It does not represent the way forward. The financial mess which local government is in today has to be accepted. I give credit to this Government because at least it is prepared to carry on the concept which we as a Labor government recognised in  1973.  We not only sought to give direct grants to local government in  1973, 1974  and  1975,  but also we sought to make local government an integral part of the  3-tier  system of government in this country. We set out to make local government a genuine partner in the Federal system and to promote equality between regions. Surely  Senator Carrick  cannot say to me in all seriousness that local government at Blacktown or Bankstown is on an equal footing with local government at Kuringgai or Manly or Waverley in the older developed areas where most of the property improvement and other community facilities have been provided over a great number of years. Surely honourable senators cannot repudiate our concept that there ought to be equality between regions and that therefore we ought to be making greater sums of money available to those councils which have a particular responsibility to provide modern facilities in the modern world of today. Of course we accepted the responsibility to transform local government finance. If it had not been for the last Budget, we would have carried forward the policies which we had begun in  1973. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that the Department of the Treasury has refused a submission from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development for a substantial redirection of housing funds to New South Wales? Did the Department agree that economic conditions are such that young couples in increasing numbers are debarred from home ownership? Will this denial maintain the stagnation in the building industry and act as a deterrent to economic revival? Has the Government received submissions from the building industry- both employers and employees- along these lines? In the circumstances, will the Minister advise why Treasury, which seems to give all governments indadequate advice, has such a say and influence in determining government decisions? 
-I seek leave to move a motion. 
-I seek leave to move a motion. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion. 
Has the attention ofthe Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs been drawn to statements issued in Canberra on the weekend by local government spokesmen in which regret is expressed at the cutback in Federal funds to local government from 2.2 per cent of personal income tax in the Budget for 1975-76 to 1.5 per cent in the current economic proposals? Is it a fact that the spokesmen have indicated that the Government's decision will mean a further increase in local government rates at the end of 1976? Can the Minister explain how the Government made such a decision, as any increase in taxes or indirect taxes by other governments must surely fan the fires of inflation, thus negating the Government expressed economic objectives? 
It is proper that the Parliament should be debating the economic program which this Government is now seeking to apply to the Australian people. It is proper that we should take the initiative because it seems to me that there is a desirability for the community at large to debate the economy and the economic package which this Government suggests will cure all things in Australia. I see the debate in the Parliament as only the beginning of a debate which must take place throughout the nation- a debate something akin to the debate about Vietnamand in which all sections of the Australian people, particularly those who have a social conscience, will begin to understand the vagaries and difficulties that go with government policies and government legislation. People will begin to understand what happens when we have a government of the nature of the one in Canberra which believes in cutbacks in public sector activity and believes that by the simple mechanism of boosting private sector activity all the ills that beset the Australian people, in town and country, will suddenly evaporate. We welcome the opportunity to take issue with the Government only because it gives us an opportunity to present out point of view here in the first instance. Then we may take that point of view outside into the community so that the community can understand what is happening as far as the economic policies of this Government are concerned. 
I remind the Senate that a year or so ago, when the coalition parties began to undermine public confidence in the Labor Administration and began conspiring to bring about the defeat of that Administration, they did so on the basis that they had a formula to cure inflation, a program which would get this country moving and a program which would alter dramatically the economic face of this country. Yet what did  Mr Lynch  and  Senator Cotton  say? They said that the program which they presented to the Parliament last Thursday evening represented the culmination not of a year's activity, from the time when they were undermining public confidence in the then Government, but of 5 months' work which began on 14 December. When they were using every means at their disposal to bring about the defeat of a properly and legally constituted government, they were doing nothing to understand the basis upon which the economic policies of the Whitlam Government were operating. What were the basic features of our economic policies? They were concerned with a proper allocation of resources. They were concerned with an alleviation of poverty. It ill becomes a senator such as  Senator Martin  to criticise the Labor Government because we did not do more about child endowment, when the pack of hounds with which we had to contend in our 3 years of office always criticised any activity which we initiated to bring about a better allocation of resources in this country. Each time we moved to upgrade social security payments, each time we moved to improve the quality of life, each time we moved to place this country on a sounder economic basis we were criticised by honourable senators opposite. Therefore, it ill becomes a senator to suggest that because we did not pick up the tab in respect of child endowment we should be criticised, as  Senator Martin  suggested this evening. 
There is no doubt that the economic package which is placed before the Australian people as a panacea or a complete answer will be proved to be nothing other than a damp squib. It is a dishonest package. It is a spurious package. It is a package which will not achieve its objectives. It is a package which clearly will bring about an increase in unemployment. It is a package which has no possibility of succeeding in boosting business confidence. It is a package which will exacerbate rather than cure inflation. It is a package which will increase the problems in the State government areas. It is a package which will create problems in the area of local government. 
Yet we are told by the principal spokesman for the Government that these measures will enable the Government to regain control of the national Budget. For the last several weeks we have been regaled, as from a gramophone record, with talk by  Senator Carrick  to the effect that transmitting back to the States and local government a proportion of income tax is decentralisation and federalism. Yet the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  suggests that it is necessary to regain control of the national Budget, a principle which we in this place discussed only a few weeks ago, on the eve of the election in New South Wales. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sittings I mentioned the differences that the former Labor Government had with the then Opposition- the present Government- in regard to the question of resource allocation. Those differences still exist. Of course, we have been fed the story that all one has to do is shift resources from the public sector back to the private sector in order to get that essential stimulation within the national economy. We make no secret ofthe fact that the former Labor Government set out philosophically and legislatively to bring about a redirection of resources. This was because we believed that in the whole of the post-war years there was a need to catch up in terms of community facilities and to tackle the very important areas of need that were identified to the Parliament by the various commissions and in the reports on poverty. 
I think it has to be said that the conservative forces generally and the Government in particular have been conned into believing- they now believe their own propaganda- that by the simple mechanism of reducing public expenditure and putting more money into the pockets of individuals they will achieve a miracle and bring about economic revival. No nation has been able to solve the grievous problems within the capitalist economies by such a simple process. When we consider that there is a growing awareness of the problems of conservation and preservation and different consumer habits within the advanced industralised countries, it seems to me that the Government is ignoring, as is industry, the changes in attitudes that can now be identified within our community. I found one quotation which perhaps put the position better than I would be able to put it. It is from a book entitled  Design With Nature  by Ian McHarg. He says: 
There is an increased awareness of the need to manage resources. There is a widening certainty that the gross national product does not measure health or happiness, dignity, compassion, beauty or delight, and that these are, if not all inalienable rights, at least worthy aspirations. 
Of course, that expresses pretty well what the Labor Government sought to implement in its 3 years of office which commenced in 1972. Obviously, the community was concerned about these issues because we won office in 1972 on the basis of the quality of life issues. These were issues in the suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne which were sufficiently large in 1972 and 1974 to place and keep a Labor Government in office. The Labor movement is still committed to this goal of a better life for the ordinary people of Australia. Therefore it is a matter of regret that the Government has sought in the manner in which it has done simply to suggest, as Milton Friedman and some of the other bourgeois economists in the Western world have suggested, that all one has to do is to reduce the demand for wages and the whole economy will immediately begin to generate and produce the desired result. The facts are that there are changes in consumer habits, that there are problems in the market place and that there are problems in international trade. There are things outside the immediate influence of the national governments. Multi-national corporations are able to make decisions related to their understanding of economic matters. Whether or not they relate to national economies is quite incidental to them. We are confronted with an attempt by this Government to suggest that we need to help the economy by simply getting some stimulation within the private sector and by endeavouring to produce some sort of arrangement, package or deal which the trade union movement will accept. 
It seems to me that the Australian people have a right to know the full effects as well as the strategy behind the economic statements which have been presented to the Parliament last week. On Monday of last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sought to highlight some aspects of a statement upon which he said the Australian people should accept his interpretation of the economic path to be followed in this country. On Thursday night  Mr Fraser  gave us some of the bad news as well as the good news. The overall impression that he tried to create from the point of view of the Australian public was that this package would, in fact, bring about the essential stimulation of our economy. Whilst we can personally and politically applaud the increases in child endowment, we have to draw attention to the fact that with removal of the tax deductibility for children this does not achieve the very objective which the Government said it sought to achieve. I have done some arithmetic. 
It would appear to me, for example, that a person with 10 children in receipt of average weekly earnings, who would benefit greatly from the child endowment payments, would lose more than he would gain under this new package deal because of the loss of the tax deductions to which he was formally entitled. If the objective is to put more money into the hands of the consuming public, it fails to be realised. The package does not bring about consumer demand. It does not solve the problem of over production which is a feature not only of our secondary industry but also of our primary production. Whilst talking of production in the simple way which conservatives generally operate in the area of economics, I wish to refer to an editorial in the  Land  newspaper of Thursday, 20 May 1976. Dealing with the Government's package deal, the editor states: 
But what all Australians, and particularly the trade unions, must recognise, is that there cannot be any real increase in our standard of living unless there is a real increase in production. 
The plain facts are that we have reached the stage of over production in most of our primary industries. Surely no one would challenge that statement. That is not our problem. Our problem is finding markets. Our problem is distribution. Similarly, this can be said about our secondary industry. One has only to go to one's letter box, pick up a newspaper or watch television to appreciate the great advertising splurge which hits the consumers wherever they turn as producers seek to sell the goods. The Government, endeavouring to present some form of economic coherence in its program, seeks to stimulate consumer demand. But the Opposition submits that the Government's economic package does not produce that situation. As one of the newspapers- I think it was the Melbourne  Ageindicated  last Friday, about 57 per cent of all taxpayers were worse off as a result of the measures announced last week. That was that newspaper's assessment of the position according to its interpretation of a Treasury hand-out. Whilst we admit that there has been some recognition of poverty in the Government's proposals, I cannot concede and I do not think that any genuine Government senator can concede that by giving those people living on the poverty line a few extra dollars per week- there are quite a substantial number of them, as the Henderson report indicates- that this will bring about that miracle of economic recovery. 
I turn to the Henderson report on poverty. We pay tribute to the McMahon Government as the Government which caused an inquiry to be made into poverty in Australia. But what does that report say? It was the conservative parties that set out the terms of reference for that poverty inquiry. The report says: 
Poverty is not a personal attribute. It arises out of the organisation of the society. 
There is no doubt that there are weaknesses within the society that create and maintain the degree of poverty that exists. Whilst there is some last minute recognition by the Liberal and Country Party Government of poverty and it has taken some steps in the right direction in this economic package, the fact is that this action will not bring about that essential stimulus which is necessary in the economy because there are operating factors which are beyond the powers of" government, and certainly beyond the powers of this Government. 
One must go back into history to look at the way in which the market itself developed and how the establishment of the market was one of the principal ingredients in the development of capitalism and the overthrow of the feudal society. I suggest that governments as well as the community ought to be having a look at the market. Certainly I make the very strong submission as well as having the conviction that it is in the market place where the distortions take place in respect of the production and distribution of our goods. But, be that as it may, I think we must say that this package, this deal, represents in our view an attack upon the real wages of the salary and wage earners. In fact this package will not put more money into the pockets of those persons to bring about the necessary stimulation of the consumers within our community. 
One has only to examine statements that have been made by Government spokesmen and to see the dilemma in which the State Premiers now find themselves in the area of CommonwealthState relationships and the dilemma in which local government finds itself to appreciate that there will need to be a very great increase in the immediate period of indirect taxation as well as establishing new forms of taxation in the States and by the States. 
As  Mr Wran  so aptly put it last evening, if  Mr Fraser  believes his policy and if by wage indexation and tax indexation his objective is to put more money into the hands of the consumer, the trade unionist, the man in the street and the purchaser, it would be wrong for State Premiers to institute a new form of State taxation because that would take money out of the pockets of those people. Yet we have been told that that is what is proposed in the new federalism policy, in the federalism about which we have been regaled at great length in this place in recent weeks. We are told that federalism in fact will be the way out for State and local government and that transferring to those areas of government the right to collect money and to spend it is the philosophy that ought to be applied. So, if that philosophy has any basis at all, it does mean that taxation will increase at other levels at a time when, according to  Mr Fraser,  the whole purpose is to put more money into the hip pocket. 1 challenge the whole premise upon which this economic policy is structured. I cannot believeand I am sure that a proper analysis ofthe economic package will reveal this fact- that transferring, for example, $ 100m which would otherwise be spent by the Australian Government into the pockets of 50 000 different consumers throughout Australia- those same dollars which would have been spent nationally in the social welfare program, the urban program or in the sewerage program, or by transferring those funds to a State for its health scheme- or by putting it into the pockets of 10 000, 20 000 or 50 000 individuals, will have any sort of stimulative effect on our economy. It is too simple. It is Friedmanism to a point of absurdity. In countries where that sort of philosophy and legislative follow-through has taken place we find economies which are in an even worse state than the Australian economy is. To suggest therefore that it is wrong for governments to spend money in providing basic community facilities and to meet the needs of the people, and to claim that such action is inflationary, certainly begs the question which requires greater examination than the Government parties are giving to it. 
Let us take for example what was said today by  Senator Carrick  in response to a question that I raised with him concerning local government finance. I do not want to say anything disrespectful of  Senator Carrick.  I am not a scholar, an officer or a gentleman if I use certain words and say that he lied to the Parliament in his reply to me today in response to that question. Leaving that aspect aside, I certainly believe that he misled the Senate when he replied to that question from me today about local government finance. He did not say, for example, when we were talking about the cut-back in public spending- and I have raised this matter before- that the expenditure of funds which finish up at local government or State government levels is less inflationary than if those funds are spent at the national level by the Federal Government or any of its statutory authorities. But, in respect of the amounts of money which are now to be made available to local government,  Senator Carrick  has suggested that the Australian Government will be spending more money in this area. That is certainly the impression that he created in reply to a question from me in the first instance and then in reply to  Senator Devitt  and subsequently to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt). 
He was trying to create the impression that the Government would spend more money in the area of local government funding. Is he seriously suggesting that, if that is done, that is not inflationary? If I were to accept his view that that was the situation- of course it is not, but if I were to accept that point of view- why is it that Government senators will not tell me that that local government dollar is less inflationary than the Commonwealth dollar? They have never yet been able to convince me or in any way to come back into the debate to point out the absurdity of that point of view. 
Let me mention again this matter of local government to which I referred previously.  Senator Carrick  went on to say that there had been an increase of funds. He was making great play about the increase of funds from the Commonwealth to local government. These funds were to rise from $79m which the Labor Government provided in its 1975-76 Budget to $140m which will be provided in the current economic package. It is part of the forward Estimates. But  Senator Carrick  did not tell the Senate that last year the Australian Government gave to local government $230m, both in tied grants and in untied grants. He did not say therefore that there was a shortfall of approximately $90m to local government. It is true that a great proportion of those funds was made available in specialised ways including the Regional Employment Development scheme, certainly in the area improvement programs and certainly under the Australian Assistance Plan programs. It was in that other assistance which was provided that direct funding was made available for specific purposes from the Commonwealth Government to local government.  Senator Carrick  has tried to create the impression in his false and misleading way, in a lying way, in a way - 
I present the following petition from 366 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned, who are all in the employment of Martin Wells, and are fully aware of the Industries Assistance Commission Report on the Spectacle Frame Industry, deplore their attitude they have taken and their recommendations to the Government, to cease quota restrictions on spectacle frames, sunglasses and sunglass frames, and of the lowering of tariff rates on spectacle frames to 25 per cent. 
We have been advised by the Management that if this report of the I.A.C. is accepted by the Government then the Company of Martin Wells would have no alternative other than to sack 400 employees. 
The Government is well aware that unemployment is very high. If they accept this report, the Government would be directly contributing to another 400 people being put on the unemployment list. 
The very important point that must be brought to the attention of the Government is that 80 per cent of the employees at Martin Wells, live within a 10 mile radius of the factory. 
To find other employment in the area would be virtually impossible. Factories in this area, like Martin Wells, do not have a great turnover in staff. It should be noted that the housing population in this area is high due to the fact that  Mr Druitt  Housing Commission is adjacent to the industrial area. All factories in this area must be kept going to be in the best interest of the people and avoid serious social problems of mass unemployment. 
We feel that it would be in the interest of the Government to note that employees have many years service with this Company, and have obtained a high degree of skill in the manufacture of spectacle frames, which has led to this Company gaining world-wide recognition. 
We feel that adoption of the I.A.C. Report would lead to lower standards, conflicting with health requirements and that the higher influx of imported frames would only lead to a higher degree of inflation and a further 'rip off' to the Australian public. 
We deplore the report of the Industries Assistance Commission which will end the operation of the last Australian Manufacturer in the industry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words in length, in compliance with sessional orders I shall not ask for it to be read. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of the numbers of persons who have been taken off unemployment benefits and placed in receipt of other social security benefits such as sickness or invalid pensions? Is the Minister aware that this new practice causes psychological harm to those physically weaker members of the community who hitherto have displayed great courage and determination to overcome their disabilities? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons behind the reallocation of such people? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I ask: Does the decision concerning the partial reintroduction of university tuition fees for certain categories of students represent the first step in the restoration of university fees for all students attending tertiary institutions? Is the establishment of a selective scholarship scheme to replace the tertiary education allowance scheme contemplated? Is there any proposal under the Government's federalism policy that may involve the devolution of total financial responsibility for tertiary education back to the States? 
-The Opposition agrees with the proposition put forward by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator Cotton).  It does so not only because that is a sensible way of dealing with Bills which have a common purpose but also because it supports the legislation. The Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill flows from the passage of the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976, which lifted the 0.6c per lb charge for meat inspection and disease eradication imposed by the Labor Government and replaces that levy with a $ 1 a head slaughter levy for all cattle slaughtered after 1 July. 
The $1 a head slaughter levy will raise approximately the same amount of revenue as the 0.6c per lb levy raised previously, although it applied only to exports. The $1 a head slaughter levy is now to be carried by the whole industry. I think we recognise that there is some virtue and equity in the legislation to that degree. The levy has been imposed to offset Commonwealth funding of the national endemic cattle disease eradication program which is designed primarily for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The complementary Bill that we have now agreed to debate cognately- the Livestock 
Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Billseeks to establish a national cattle disease eradication trust account from which this program will be funded. 
I think it has to be said, and said many times, that the future of Australia's beef and dairy export markets depends to a very large extent upon the success of the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign. To that extent, of course, this legislation has to be regarded as being vital to the maintenance of our export market. The only criticism that the Opposition would make of the legislation is that it does not apply the $1 a head slaughter levy until 1 July, although the 0.6c per lb levy was lifted on 1 March. I understand that this will have the effect of forgoing about $2.5m in revenue which, if it had not been passed back to the producers, would have remained with the exporters. So it is a rather nice gift from the Government without any request, as far as we are aware, being made for it. We believe- this is the point of criticism- that the $1 a head slaughter levy should have been applied from 1 March. But the Opposition does not oppose the principle implicit in the legislation. 
The Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill is a machinery measure. Naturally we also support it. The purpose of this Bill is to establish a trust account into which the moneys raised by the levy for disease eradication will be paid. The revenue from this levy will be used to augment a Commonwealth contribution towards the eradication of bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis in the Australian cattle herds, which is a very desirable objective from every point of view. Of course, the Bill also lays down that the Minister for Primary Industry may authorise payments from the fund to the States for disease eradication or to the Commonwealth for the same purposes. 
I think it should be said very briefly that the problems of the beef industry ought to be the concern of the whole community. I am sure that they are the concern of the Government, as they are of the Australian Labor Party. The state of the industry is causing considerable concern. A drop in beef exports has taken place. In the peak year 1972-73 approximately 574 000 tonnes were exported. The last figure that I have been able to obtain seems to indicate that there has been a drop of something like 155 000 tonnes, which is a very considerable drop, in the export of beef. So, whilst this legislation has the very desirable effect of eradicating disease and meeting the very high standards upon which the overseas buyers insist in relation to the Australian production, it is clear that the nation is facing a very acute problem in relation to its export markets. Every effort must be made to improve the sales of our beef. It has to be said that during that peak period when beef production rose very considerably the farming community was encouraged to expand production. To the degree that it did so, it is now suffering very considerably from the fall-off in international demand. Of course, the prices for cattle in the subsequent  2lh  years have fallen rather dramatically. Whilst some efforts have been made by the previous Government and the present Government to stabilise the market position, particularly in Japan, the United States of America and Canada- the countries to which we principally export- we still have a very grave problem of providing some stability in the beef industry. 
This legislation has to be seen as only a part of a process of meeting the very important standards that have been imposed by those overseas countries which require our beef. Although much has been said to the contrary, I think I ought to say that governments come and go and sometimes they get a great deal of blame for the sort of situation in which the Australian beef industry now finds itself. Of course, the belief has been created in the rural communities that the previous Government was not very much concerned with legislation similar to that which we are now discussing or that it was not very much concerned about the state of the beef industry. I think that it ought to be put in the record that the previous Government did accept some responsibility for assisting the beef industry at the time when the downturn was taking place in the export markets. For example, in December 1974 some $20m was made available to allow the Commonwealth Development Bank to expand its lending to seriously affected beef producers. That was in the period after the peak. It was the period of the downturn which has continued. Unless we are able to make very considerable inroads into the export markets, we will have a continued problem facing the Australian beef industry. 
A few months after that- in March 1975- the Labor Government decided to provide a loan of $3m to the Australian Meat Board to assist it in making export sales. Whilst one recognises that at the moment there is some criticism of the Australian Meat Board, I think it has to be said that it is a body- just as the Senate is- which has endeavoured to fulfil its functions. Perhaps it has not always done so to the satisfaction of the producers. Nevertheless, I believe that some of the criticism is not necessarily justified. The Board has sought to meet the different situations and variations which affect our beef industry and which have occurred in overseas countries. A month after we made that $3m available, the Labor Government made another $ 19.6m available, to match State allocations for carry-on funds for beef producers. Despite all that assistance from government and despite the passage of legislation such as we will pass this evening, the beef industry is still in a very difficult position. Much more will have to be done to bring about some stabilisation of the industry. 
I recall that when I was the  chairman  of a subcommittee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices we conducted an inquiry into meat prices. I draw the attention of the Minister to some of the important recommendations which we made but which my Government did not take up. I suggest that those recommendations represented a consensus view of the members of the Committee. We carried out a fairly fundamental determination of the problems as we saw them at that time. Notwithstanding the price impact of that report, there were other recommendations which we felt and which I certainly still feel would be of value for the Government to look at from the point of view of improving the general production methods and the classification of meat as an important part of maintaining and developing our exports. On behalf of the Opposition, I assure the Government that we will give a speedy passage to these Bills. 
The Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill propose to extend the existing scheme for apple and pear stabilisation which has operated from 1971 to 1975 and are designed to cover the 1976 export season for apples and pears. The purpose of the 1 97 1 apple and pear stabilisation scheme was to reduce the social and economic disruption to the industry at a time of declining profitability. The scheme was intended to provide some measure of security to on-going growers during an adjustment stage. The cost was estimated at approximately $10m over a 5-year period. However, as the scheme developed in that period the Australian Government's liability finally reached $14.3m. In the 1971-75 period, export apple growers experienced continued downward pressures on their incomes, primarily from costs associated with growing, packaging and freight. This, coupled with changes in exchange rates and increased competition in traditional markets, caused the Australian Government to introduce special measures to raise the level of price support for the 1974-75 crops. 
I pause at this point to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that, in respect of most of the Bills on which I have spoken in the Senate over the last several weeks, the Labor Government was associated with assistance to the rural community. Credit for this has never been properly attributed to the previous Government's acceptance of the problem and desire to give financial assistance. Special assistance was provided by the Australian Government and by some State governments on a dollar for dollar basis in respect of at-risk sales to Europe. This amounted to $2.80 a box in 1974 and $1.60 a box for the 1975 apple crop. Of course, it must be pointed out that there is a disparity in those figures. The subsidy on the lower level in 1975 was in anticipation of higher returns expected for apples in Europe. Despite the high level of price support, however, the export of apples to European and North American markets declined by 47 per cent in that period from 1971 to 1975. In the same period, pear exports also declined by some 30 per cent. Of course, this is what is happening in all our rural industries. 
The Industries Assistance Commission was called in by the Labor Government to carry out an extensive survey of the apple and pear industry. Its report recommended, subject to the acceptance of certain reconstruction schemes, the continuation of the current produce-based scheme on an interim 2-year basis, that is, for the 1976 and 1977 crops. So, in the light of that, we support the legislation. However, that support is not unequivocal and is not without some basis of criticism as to what should be the responsibilities of restructuring and improving this industry. The IAC recommendation in respect of applesnamely, that the price support under the scheme for 1976 be $2 a box for a maximum quantity of 2 million boxes- is the basis of the amendment to the Act and is as far as this Government is prepared to go. The Opposition accepts the proposed amendments, which cover the immediate crops, even though we believe that there is a need for restructuring the industry and improving market prospects. The main effect of the stabilisation scheme to date and the special assistance given from time to time has been to provide income support to apple growers and, to a lesser extent, pear growers who now face a rapid decline in prices of fruit sold on our traditional overseas markets. 
Government support is, of course, product based and in the circumstances is favouring the larger and wealthier growers. As I have said many times in recent weeks, the question of need is an integral part of Labor Party philosophy. The Henderson report on poverty specifically points to the growing problem of the rural poor. From 1960 onwards, it is estimated, one fruit grower in six has been poor. As the survey showed, in Kentucky, northern New South Wales, 40 per cent of those interviewed in the preparation of the Henderson report were and can be categorised as being in the poverty zone. Annual profit margins of $90 an acre on farms of 30 to 40 acres of trees show the degree of poverty in that region and the need for government assistance. Clearly the problems are immense, and the Whitlam Government was acting in the best interests of all those in the industry when it commissioned the IAC to report on the industry in 1974. 
It has to be pointed out that the export of apples and pears accounts for nearly half of the fruit produced- 40 per cent of apples and 50 per cent of pears. It has also been pointed out that Tasmania, Western Australia and Victoria are particularly affected by any change in the export of apples and pears, although after further examination I believe that problems also exist in Queensland. However, there is not much hope that the export market will improve. I should like to draw the Senate's attention to the March 1976 issue of the publication  The Fruit World and Market Grower,  which clearly is related to this industry. I quote from it a statement made by  Mr Jurgen  Wolf of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation when speaking at a London conference in February of this year. He said: 
There is a danger of a fundamental market imbalance developing in the international fruit trade. In the case of apples and pears, the main problem has occurred in Europe. Although temporary improvements could be noted in some years, the production potential was still larger than present prospects for consumption. Further efforts to reduce surpluses are, therefore, essential in Europe. 
He went on to point out that production is rising faster than import demand in those consumer countries, and as a result price levels were not profitable enough for producers. So here again we have the problem of markets. It is not a problem of production; it is a problem of markets. I am afraid that more and more governments, political parties and communities have to concern themselves with the problems of marketing. The marketing prospects for overseas exports are not good, and this highlights the need for restructing the whole apple and pear industry, taking into account particularly the regional influences that the industry has in specific areas of our country. Of course, if we were to move in any unilateral or dramatic way it would have disastrous effects on those particular regions. 
The Apple and Pear Board, the grower organisations and the Australian Labor Party all accept that the apple and pear stabilisation plan, including these 2 Bills, does not provide the answer to the long term problems of the industry. As the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has said in its summary, the industry is examining various aspects of restructuring, including possible assistance which might be available to growers under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act implemented by the Commonwealth Government through State government organisations specially set up for the purpose. 
It seems to me that the conservatives have had many years to effect changes in these rural industries that would remove the insecurity of unstable income for farmers. Their failure to do so indicts them for their piecemeal and inadequate approach. This legislation which we support, however, should be seen as being an interim measure, leading to a more positive approach to solving, as far as is practicable with our resources the immediate problems of the industry. The legislation provides that the maximum level of price for pear support be limited to 80c a box and that the maximum quantity eligible for support be 1 400 000 boxes. The support- this is what the legislation is about- will be confined to at risk sales to Europe, including the United Kingdom and North America. The legislation also brings the language in the existing legislation into line with the terminology used within the industry and as approved by the Metric Conversion Board; that is, the term 'reputed bushel' is now replaced with the term 'reputed box'. The Government is duty bound to express its attitude and policy towards the fruit growing industry. In the 23 years that the Liberal-Country Party Government was in power before 1972- in fact, it was in the dying days of that year- fruit growers began to suffer because of the failure of the Government to make decisions or to formulate worthwhile longer terms plans for the industry. 
What has to be realised by this Government is that fruit growers do not want a handout. A Bandaid is not the cure. What is required is support based on a sound plan. Either fruit growers have to obtain a viable return for their efforts based on sound economic principles or a way out has to be provided for these hard-working members of the rural community to re-establish themselves in other fields. Stabilisation of export returns- a policy advocated and continued by the Government in isolation- does not provide an answer when it serves to promote production in the absence of a market. All it does is encourage people to tread water and exacerbates the problems besetting the industry. It must be remembered that it is an industry which contributes 5 per cent or 6 per cent of gross value products and only 1 per cent of rural export returns. 
The Labor Government in its short term of office, aware that the hard-working fruit growers required more than a product based subsidy, instigated the IAC to look into the problems in detail and to make recommendations. Of course, in the period in which we were in office, from 1972 to 1975, appreciable amounts of money were funded to the industry. Following the revaluation of the Australian dollar in 1972, emergency adjustment assistance was provided for the industry based on growers' average annual exports in the 2 calendar years 1 97 1 and 1972. Total payment to fruit growers on the postrevaluation system was about $ 1.65m. Additional supplementary grants of $1,000 were made available to farmers experiencing extreme financial difficulties. This was again based on the principle of need. 
The net assistance given by the Australian Government under Labor was $2.73m in 1973 and $ 1.98m in 1974. In addition to stabilisation payments the Australian Government joined on a State for State basis with the Tasmanian, Western Australian and Queensland Governments in providing special assistance to growers exporting at risk to the United Kingdom and other European markets in the 1974 season. This committed the Australian Government to a maximum of $2.6m though the final cost was $2.1m which, on the matching grants basis with the States, totalled $4.2m. 
The IAC in its report on the industry dated 1 6 January 1976 and presented to the Parliament on 27 April 1976 determined the 'fruit growers and regions under greatest pressure are those which have been most directly oriented towards exports'. Of course, that is the area where the assistance ought to be directed. To subsidise export production in the absence of probable or even possible markets is not coming to grips with the problem and is reprehensible if it is not part of an overall scheme to assist regions and people employed in the industry. I believe that the Government can be criticised for sitting on the IAC report for 3 months and then not promoting discussion on it in the community, in the industry or in the Parliament, or not in strict terms acting on it as it was recommended to do, preferring to abide by the interim measures proposed by the former Government which were designed as stop-gap measures to assist people and regions pending a closer analysis of the problems and the detailed examination by the IAC. 
The fruit growing communities, especially those in regions such as the Huon in Tasmania, the pear growing area of the Goulburn Valley in Victoria and Stanthorpe in Queensland, will be only further disadvantaged by this Government's failure fundamentally to tackle the problem. These regions and people require assistance and direction. Reconstruction assistance is long overdue, and the IAC's recommendations that such assistance needs to be mainly orientated to communities and regions rather than products cannot be ignored. What cannot also be ignored is that low returns for fruit growers' labour and investment is not to be cured by the adoption of new technology or larger production. Again I refer to the statements in publications and country newspapers, which are continually being distributed in rural communities, which stress the need to increase production. 
In the fruit growing industry there is only limited scope for cost reduction by these means. The other side of the equation has to be looked at. The producers are victims of an imperfect system where because of the 'givens' in the market and the projected market based on the existing situation, the more efficient they become or the more they produce the less they obtain per unit of production. No better illustration of the harshness of the existing market system can be found than producers having to bury their produce for lack of a market and our near Asian neighbours having large sections of their populations die of hunger. I should like to refer the Senate to the publication entitled 'Commodity Bulletin' which is issued by the Division of Marketing and Economics of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture. Recently it carried out an examination of apple prices and marketing margins. Whilst it did not reach final conclusions, I think it has to be said- here I quote from an article written by G. A. Forsythe- that: 
In evidence presented to the Industries Assistance Commission Inquiry into the Apple and Pear Industry, a number of witnesses expressed concern at the degree of efficiency achieved in the determination of prices at both the wholesale and retail levels of the marketing chain. 
As I said several days ago, and I stress again, we need to become involved in a proper examination of the marketing system. Specifically, these 3 claims can be distinguished: 
Imperfections exist in the competitiveness of the wholesale market. For example, prices do not reflect quantity changes, and comparable lines of fruit do not receive comparable prices. 
The magnitude of retail margins is excessive. 
There is no parallel relationship between wholesale and retail prices. 

 Mr Forsythe goes on to say: 
Despite these claims, no witness provided empirical evidence in their support. The assertions therefore purport to be no more than qualitative assessments or mere observations. This is largely due to the lack of reliable and sufficient quantitative data. 
It is an indictment of governments that at this stage when we have recognised the tremendous problems of marketing, we have not the sort of data available to us that would enable us to make an intelligent judgment about the price structure and about the return to the grower. 
If we look at the table which is provided in this agricultural document we find, for instance, that for Granny Smith apples in 1970, a grower received 38c a dozen. The wholesaler sold at 42c a dozen with a margin of 4c a dozen. Those apples were retailed at 104c a dozen. In 1975, the grower received 56c a dozen, which was an increase of 18c a dozen in the 5-year period. The wholesaler's margin increased by 5c a dozen. But where was the retail margin? It had increased by 25c a dozen. So the final figures for 1975 Granny Smith apples were 56c a dozen to the grower with a margin to the wholesaler of 5c a dozen taking his price to 61c a dozen with, finally, the retailer receiving 129c a dozen. This is a matter that needs to be examined by the Government. If we are to have any price support scheme and if we are to have any stabilisation and restructuring, clearly there is a need to look at the market. 
A decision also should take into consideration a more national determination of land use throughout Australia. This may well require that areas considered valuable fruit growing areas be maintained and non-productive areas not promoted. Whilst Tasmania, for example, is disadvantaged by freight and handling costs to the large domestic markets of the capital cities, this cost may well be less than the actual cost to the community of starting new fruit growing areas which are closer to these markets but which are less appropriate for fruit growing and more appropriately maintained as wilderness or developed for other publicly beneficial purposes. 
At the moment, the reports indicate the futility of following just a produce based subsidy policy. It has to be said that the Pitt Street farmers and the Collins Street farmers are exploiting and speculating in these areas and qualifying for certain government assistance whilst other fruit growers are being disadvantaged by their activities and are suffering as a result of not basing themselves on the need concept. I repeat: At the moment the reports indicate the futility of following just a produce based subsidy policy. 
Part A of the IAC report on page 4 states: 
More help can be given to the people concerned at much less cost to the nation if it is not given by way of assistance to production. The futility of product based support as an adjustment measure is illustrated by a Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimate that in 1973-74, despite direct production subsidies averaging more than $ 14,000 a grower, net farm incomes of Tasmanian apple producers averaged less than $6,000. Assistance to growers was absorbed not only by production costs but also by costs of marketing and low export returns. 
Clearly no better case for rationalising the industry can be made. Clearly the Government has to consider longer term factors not based on just narrow present market policies. Clearly the people of these regions require more than just stabilising of export returns. 
The IAC also has assessed the FRS schemethat is, the fruit growers reconstruction scheme or the tree-pull scheme- and has pointed out its shortcomings, namely- 
The level of assistance is tied directly to the area of trees removed and is only indirectly related to welfare needs through a means test provision. 
It added: 
The scales of payment for tree-pull assistance do not always encourage the removal of the feast productive trees or orchards. 
It continued: 
Alternative uses of fruit trees are not encouraged under the scheme. 
Alternative recommendations are made based on the objectives of achieving efficient resources adjustment and the personal well being of the growers. The main recommendations are summarised at page 5 of the report. These are: 
The establishment of Area Redevelopment Authorities (ARAs) in fruit growing regions facing major adjustment problems. The provision of special adjustment counsellors to service these authorities by alerting individual fruitgrowers to and helping them deal with, the problems of change. Adjustment finance, on concessional terms for the first 3 years, to aid fruit growers in these regions with the reconstruction of their farms or to establish themselves in other activities or lifestyles. Such credit to be provided in situations where commercial credit cannot be obtained. 
The Government has to make decisions, I suggest. It has reports and information before it from a variety of sources, not just the IAC report though I have been largely referring to that report as it is the most recent, not because it resulted from a Labor Party initiative. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has indicated in answer to a question addressed to him in the House of Representatives on 28 May this year that the Government in fact has not accepted in full the IAC's report preferring to provide an additional assistance in conjunction with the States to alleviate some of the hardships befalling fruit growers because of the export market shortfalls in returns. If the Government refuses the IAC recommendations and prefers to continue the interim measures which were put into operation by the Labor Party pending- I stress that point- the full IAC report, why did this Government refuse to support the Tasmanian fruit growers when asked to by the Tasmanian Government? 
The offer was made to the Minister,  Mr Sinclair,  by the Tasmanian Labor Government to extend additional cover other than the stabilisation scheme on 340 000 boxes of apples on a dollar for dollar basis with the Commonwealth. This would have brought expenditure up to what was spent last year. The Federal Government refused this offer and the Tasmanian Government is extending the scheme on the basis of $2 a box to be paid entirely by the State Government on only 170 000 boxes. It is an indictment of this Government that in view of its assertion that it is rejecting the IAC report it was not more receptive to the proposal put forward by the Tasmanian Government. To declare subsequently that assistance is to be provided for an additional 500 000 bushels in conjunction with the States only illustrates the  ad hoc  nature of this Government's policies. 
The Government has to make decisions relating to the apple and pear industry. It is unconscionable to leave the fruit growers of Australia in their present untenable position. I would prefer to be supporting positive proposals by this Government in view of the information made available to it as a result of the activities of the Labor Administration and not to rely on band aid cures which the growers do not want. With respect to any positive proposal that this Government may come up with, I can assure the Senate that we will do everything within our power as the Labor Party and as the Opposition to view objectively and to take into consideration the opinions of and the problems facing the growers and the consuming public alike. The real indictment of this Government is that decisions can bc made to place rural industries on the road to recovery but this Government refuses to make them. Might well it be said that farmers and people living in rural districts feel totally disenchanted with a Government which purports to represent them but fails to do so. Rhetoric aside, the record of the Labor Party in 3 years was far more constructive. Delay in decisionmaking will not assist in re-establishing the viability of the fruit growing industry or those directly involved with the industry. The Opposition supports the interim measures and calls upon the Government to take the essential restructuring steps to place this industry on a firm and viable basis. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted the decision by the Australian Government not to be present at the sham ceremony in Dili yesterday which purported to make a determination for the integration of East Timor with Indonesia? Does the Minister know that that act is contrary to the declaration made by the Indonesian  President  and his Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  and flouts the decision made on several occasions by the United Nations Security Council? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the decision not to attend this charade was made because Australia recognises the immorality and illegality of the whole ceremony and the proposed integration decision? 
I present the following petition from 84 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled, the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Prices Index months after prices of goods and services have risen, and that medications which were formerly pharmaceutical benefits must now be paid for. 
Additionally, that State housing authorities' waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners grow ever longer, and the cost of funerals increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to- 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically when the quarterly Consumer Prices Index is announced. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
Update the State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act of 1974, eroded by inflation, to increase grants to overcome the backlog. 
Update Funeral Benefit to 60 per cent of reasonable cost of funeral. (This benefit was 200 shillings, 20 dollars, when introduced in 1943. It was seven times the 1943 pension of 27 shillings a week). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the various statements made by the State Premiers commenting on the suggested problems regarding the legality of the Medibank scheme as it relates to State hospitals? Even if there are some doubts about the operation of the scheme, could not the Australian Government take steps to draw up a new agreement with the States or, alternatively, amend the legislation and so overcome the confusion and division which now exist between the Federal Government and the various States? 
Has the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs seen reports suggesting that the Australian Government is to transfer the responsibility for legal aid from the Commonwealth to the States? Does this transfer involve acceptance of financial responsibility by the States or will the Commonwealth still fund the States to continue this important community facility? Is this move to be regarded as a pan of the federalism policy? Has it been discussed with the States? Can the Minister advise what other Federal initiatives it is contemplated will be transferred to the States? Will these create financial burdens for the States? 
I take the opportunity in this debate to say a few words which are not necessarily related to the issues in the legislation. I wish to comment on the statements which have been made in the other place and which were made in this place yesterday by  Senator Withers.  I believe it is a matter of some importance. I refer to the developments that have taken place in East Timor in the last few days and the clear endeavour by this Government to treat the tragedy that has occurred in East Timor as a Party political issue and attempt to score points from it. 
I think it is sad that  Senator Withers  took the opportunity at question dme yesterday to reply to a question in a manner which suggested that the whole blame for the Timor issue rested with the previous Government and that it was the inactivity of members of the present Opposition that brought about the invasion of East Timor and its disastrous effects on the people of that country. I take the Senate back to 1975 which is the key period when this Timor issue developed. We all know that in the early part of 1975 those who are now in Government and the conservatives generally both inside and outside this Parliament were hell bent on destroying the constitutional government in Australia. We know that in April and May of 1 975 there were moves afoot to deny Supply. We also know of the event which prevented that from happening- the accession of  Mr Fraser  to the leadership of the Liberal Party. We know that during the next four or five months there was a well orchestrated campaign to bring down the Labor Government and that that campaign succeeded. Those of us who had some interest in and understanding of and conscience about the events that were taking place in Timor were criticised, and strongly criticised by  Senator Withers,  for not arguing this matter out in a way which would have undermined still further the position of the Labor Government. 
The tragedy of this issue is that this Government and its spokesmen in this place and, to some extent, in the other place have sought to place this whole question concerning the rights of people in Timor on a basis of who was right and who was wrong. They say that at the time we should have taken steps which would have completely disrupted our own Government. At that time we were concerned about maintaining the rights of a properly constituted government. It was within the province of the present Government in its caretaker capacity to take steps to unravel the problems associated with the death of the newsmen at Balibo on 16 October last year. After all, the caretaker Government assumed office on 1 1 November and the invasion of East Timor did not take place until 7 December. 
Whilst I criticise my own Government's failure to take some action in the 3-week period from the date on which the newsmen were re- ported missing until that Government lost office, also in fairness must criticise the inability of this Government to follow through the story about the fate of those journalists whose only purpose in being in East Timor was to report the news to the outside world. That, to me, does not constitute any sort of crime. So it was against the background of those events in 1975 that constraints were placed upon supporters of the previous Government. Constraints were placed upon those members of the Labor Party who in this place repeatedly asked questions of former  Senator Willesee  who, in his judgment at that time, considered that he should have taken the stand that he did take. It was a most unsatisfactory stand. It was a stand taken in the light of the circumstances at the time, but in retrospect now it has been proved to be a stand of weakness. 
It will behoves spokesmen for the Government to suggest that they would have done anything different in respect of the advice that was being given to  Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Willesee  at that time. A deputation, including a number of members ofthe Labor Cabinet, spoke to  Senator Willesee  in the early hours of one morning in early November last year. The deputation pointed out to him the obvious facts about the Indonesian involvement in East Timor and about the failure of the then Government to take a principal position in accordance with our support for the principles of self determination. In response to a question that I had asked  Senator Willesee  some weeks previously he agreed to consider presenting to the Senate a statement which would set out the Government's policy. When he finally presented that statement to the Senate we find that he, together with the Government, allowed advice from  Mr Woolcott,  our Ambassador in Jakarta, to misrepresent completely the Australian position with the Indonesian authorities. 
What do we find? We find that the ministerial statement was altered by our representative in Jakarta. The paragraph in the statement which set out the Government's position was not conveyed to the Indonesian Government by our Ambassador in Jakarta. Yet this question was raised yesterday by  Senator Knight  with  Senator Withers. Senator Knight  himself was a public servant. He was deprecating the fact that some criticism had been levelled at the Public Service. He said that we had no right or authority to so criticise a highly placed official in the Public Service. The fact is, of course, that there has been no denial that this gentleman did in fact take the unprecedented step of withholding from the Government to which he is accredited the views ofthe Australian Government. 
Let us look at the circumstances. This was the time when even  Senator Carrick  was on his war horse in the Senate, asking questions and trying to stimulate and inflame public opinion about the problems that were developing in Timor. It was the time when  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  were trying to suggest that the events that were taking place in Timor had some sort of sinister communist connotation and when they were trying to suggest, therefore, that there should be some sort of passive attitude on the part of the Australian Government in this area. In the light of all these circumstances it was easy for an ambassador to take advantage of the situation and to try to keep from the Indonesian Government the clearly expressed view ofthe Labor Government that an act of self-determination was an integral part of the developments in that area. 
What prompts me to speak on this matter is not only that I am concerned about the illegality of the act on Monday of this week in Dili when some chieftains who had been selected sat in a so-called assembly- a feudal structure- and decided unanimously, with Indonsian troops outside the building, that they would accept an act of self-determination and in fact would seek integration with Indonesia. Nowhere can we see any of the fundamental involvement of people. Nowhere can we see the carrying out of the wishes of this Government and the previous Government. Nowhere can we see a recognition of the wishes of the Portuguese authorities or of the decision of the United Nations. Yesterday, in reply to a question  Senator Withers  said: 
. and I include a condemnation of all those in the Opposition who may be noisy on the issue now but who were so quiet when they had the opportunity to do something about the situation. 
I nail that lie. We did everything in our power to bring about a more definitive and stronger position in respect of the events that now are unfolding so tragically in East Timor. 
I do not necessarily understand completely the philosophy upon which  Mr Whitlam  acted. I have not seen any evidence to suggest that he actually encouraged  President  Suharto to move in and incorporate East Timor into Indonesia. It may be that the Australian Government was dilly-dallying, if you like, was not making up its mind correctly on the issue and was on the defensive.  Senator Chaney  is trying to interject. Because ofthe acts and refusal of the Opposition, of which he was a member, to accept the 2 decisions of the Australian people in 1972 and 1974 and because of its undermining of public confidence in the Government and not allowing it to run its proper course as part of the electoral processes in this country, surely the Prime Minister was entitled to some understanding of the position that he took. If in fact we find that  Mr Whitlam  has acted improperly in this matter, he will be dealt with not only within his own Party but also in the community itself. If any person in public life acts improperly in respect of the rights of nations or the rights of people, sooner or later he is brought to book. 
What is the position in respect of  Mr BjelkePetersen,  who said that he had asked Indonesia to act against the Fretilin Government in East Timor? He admitted that he had urged  President  Suharto of Indonesia, before the invasion, to keep the communists out of East Timor. He confirmed that he had been in touch with  President  Suharto several times before East Timor was invaded by Indonesian troops. This pompous, arrogant, hypocritical person, who represents the conservative forces in this country, takes out of the hands ofthe Australian Government its right to make a determination about a foreign affairs issue. Let me pinch  Dr Kissinger's  latest phrase:  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  can be described as a public soft-core warmonger. There is no other phrase that can describe this man. I think 1 might be prepared to join  Mr Whitlam,  even though I condemned  Mr Whitlam  for the statement when he made it, in saying that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is a Bible-bashing bastard. If we look at this statement - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Maunsell)-  Order! I ask the honourable senator to withdraw that remark. 
-I withdraw the remark only in deference to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and certainly not in deference to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  Honourable senators should read what he said in his Press statement. They should have heard him this morning on the radio program  AM.  He said that he would not hesitate to do what he did again. This man encouraged the invasion of a country which, for the first time in its contemporary history- since 25 April 1974- had the opportunity to enjoy some of the fruits of democracy and self-determination and to run its own affairs free of the colonial overlord that had held sway in the region for some 400 years. This man condones the murders and the atrocities that are taking place in that part of the world. He must be described as a vulgar person, as an uncouth person and as an undemocratic person, for expressing those sorts of sentiments, which go to the lengths of even condemning this Government because, to its credit, it failed to send a representative to Dili on Monday to that great farce and pantomime that was said to be the expressed views ofthe people of East Timor. 
Any person who condones that sort of activity must put himself in the same pulpit as those in the 1930s, when Adolf Hitler used nationalism, communism and instability as the reasons for marching into Austria in 1934 and used those same emotive terms as reasons for marching into Czechoslovakia in 1936. We know the terrible aftermath of those tragic events. Surely we have to learn some lessons from this. By the tacit acceptance by the Australian Government, past and present, of the events that have taken place in Timor- the great tragedy is that this has not filtered through to the Parliament and to the Australian people- in fact we have strengthened the hand of the extremist groups in Indonesia. We have not strengthened the hand of  President  Suharto who, with all his faults and tendencies, represents a more moderate point of view in his own country. We have strengthened that group of generals who in World War II were fighting against Australia and the Allied cause and who, in addition to seizing West Irian when they did, now have succeeded in taking this important step of taking partial control of the territory of East Timor. 
What were the options that were open to the Australian Government, what was the only link when a super power in the Asian region, Indonesia, marched across the borders of East Timor in October last year, murdering Australians in the process? When that power subsequently carried out a full scale invasion, what resources were left to the people of East Timor? They had a radio link with Darwin. What a puny little link it was. It was a radio transmitter with which they sought to convey, maybe, their point of view but with which they sought to convey to the rest of the world what was taking place. What did this Government do? On some pretext of illegality by way of an unregistered transmitter the Government closed the transmitter down at the very time that  Mr Winspeare  Guiccardi was in this region for the purpose of carrying out an on-the-spot investigation on behalf of the United Nations organisation. 
We can read the report of  Mr Harry's  pathetic, weak kneed, low posture contribution in the debate in the United Nations only last month, when the rest of the world was looking to Australia to take a principal position in respect of this region. They knew that we had an interest in the region and that up until then we had expressed some interest and humanitarian concern about events that took place in that part of the world. What did  Mr Harry  do? He took a low posture position. He took no initiative to see that the people of Timor were given the elementary opportunity to determine their own affairs. That was all they asked. They did not ask to be aligned with another power. They did not ask for aid. All they asked for was the right to determine their own affairs. 
Another option was available to this Government. Certainly it was available to my Government when we were in office. I deprecate the failure of  Mr Whitlam  and his Ministers to have a discussion in the Cabinet room about East Timor. But I wonder whether any discussion on East Timor has taken place in the Cabinet of this Government. I wonder whether all members of this Government have approved of the aid program that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  announced on 14 April. After  Mr Peacock's  visit to Jakarta he said that the Australian Government would be increasing the level of aid to Indonesia over the next 3 years. Whereas we as a Labor government had decided to give $69m to Indonesia over a 3-year period, this Government has lifted it to $86m. Two options were available to us. One was to ensure that the Portuguese authorities who still hold legal responsibility for the territory were given resources to assist in the policy of decolonisation. We can look at all that the Government did incorrectly in respect of the transmitter and what it did in respect of the aid program. Yet certain Government leaders try consistently to place the blame for these tragic events upon the Labor Government. 
What attempt has this Government made to see that the United Nations decision is observed by the Indonesians? What evidence is there to suggest that we have conveyed to Indonesia not only our displeasure but also our determination to cut back our aid? Indonesia cannot survive without our aid program. Our Government statements, as good as they may be about the nonattendance at Monday's farcical conference, are guarded, low key, muted and neutral at a time when we should be giving leadership. In Jakarta we have an ambassador who is an apologist for Indonesian actions. 
I have to stand up and account for my actions and other members in public life have to account for what we say and do. Is it suggested that we have a class of citizens who are beyond the point of criticism and beyond the point of being responsible for the advice that they give to governments? Whatever  Mr Whitlam  's weaknesses may have been in this matter, he was acting on the advice of the Department of Foreign Affairs. We are entitled, when we see these critical and partisan statements being presented in this place, to know why the Government has not made a statement, not only criticising aggression but also exposing it. 
When I spoke on this matter some weeks ago I mentioned to the Senate that I had received certain information. I was informed that information about the murder of the Australian newsmen was available on 16 October. An article in the  Australian  newspaper stated: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs would not comment on  Senator Gietzelt  's allegations in the Senate and referred all inquiries to the Department of Defence. 
The Department of Defence authorities said that there was no radio transmitter at Shoalhaven. That is all that they did say which suggests that I just happened to have got my information wrong. They did not deny that the intelligence gathering agencies of this country knew about this. They just said that there was no such equipment at Shoalhaven for receiving such information. But what they did not say was that at Shoal Bay, near Darwin, there is a communications base. In fact, they knew this at the time that the order was given for the shooting and murder of the 5 Australian newsmen. 
What has  Mr Peacock  done? I give him credit for some of the positions he has taken on this matter. But yesterday he presented to the House of Representatives the first phase of his report about the newsmen. The investigations were carried out by the Department of Foreign Affairs. For God Almighty's sake, they investigated themselves! I was in  Senator Willesee  's office half a dozen times when these people told  Senator Willesee  that there were 50 000 refugees from East Timor in Indonesia. Yet we have now sworn depositions from witnesses to say that there were 20,000. Yet our Department was telling us that there was such a great quantity of refugees arising out of the seizure of power following the failure of the coup when the Fretlin movement took office in September last year. Only recently we have heard- and this makes the crime of Bjelke-Petersen so much greater- that young Timorese youths are being shot whilst protecting their sisters, their mothers and their girl friends from rape by the Indonesian invaders. Yet  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  on this very day is condoning and defending the Indonesians' actions and saying that what he has already done in this matter he will do again. He is also criticising the weak kneed attitude that has been taken already by this Government. 
Where is the United Nations representative? Why have we not provided facilities?  Mr Peacock  says that Portugal is delinquent. Portugal has been involved in political turmoil, as we were in 1975. Surely honourable senators opposite would not disagree that there was a certain amount of political turmoil in this country last year. One can understand the term 'delinquency' being applied but surely Australia has been delinquent too. East Timor's people are the people who succoured, looked after and nurtured Australian commando troops for the whole of the Pacific war period. They lost 50 000 of their own people in the defence of our country. This is a country that is our nearest neighbour. Yet we wash our hands of this problem and say that it belongs to Portugal and that we cannot intervene or interfere. I am told that when a relief ship was suggested by the trade union movement and also by the Catholic Church the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs gave certain advice to the Indonesian authorities on how to handle the complex situation that would arise if the mercy ships got on their way into East Timorese waters. 
I do not know who is right or who is wrong. I have read  Mr Peacock's  statements and I have listened to  Senator Withers.  I am told that officers act not on their own initiative but on the initiative of the Government. If that is the case, let us find out whether there has in fact been any communication between the Australian Government and the Indonesian Government. What is happening in Dili itself? The very forces with whose representatives members of this Parliament spoke just over a year ago- UDT and Apodeti- have now been excluded by the provisional government and the act of incorporation is well on the way. One of the first acts of this Australian Government when it was officially elected was to reject the incorporation ofthe Baltic States into the Soviet Union because of the rights of the people. That is what it said, and that incorporation happened 35 years ago. Yet we retain friendly relations with the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, we stand by and watch Indonesia incorporate East Timor. On 17 August, before this Parliament reassembles, that illegal decision which was taken last Monday will be ratified by the Indonesian Parliament. I make a plea to all honourable senators. There is little time between now and the formal Indonesian proclamation of integration. There is need for a determined campaign by all Australians- and that means all parties and all senators who have some understanding of the problem- by all those who value liberty and freedom and the rights of people, to see that this grave miscarriage of justice is not ratified and that the incorporation does not take place. We should right the wrong done to the people of East Timor. 
We have not got a very good record in respect of our own people. We did practice genocide, but to our everlasting credit we have updated our thinking and started to do something about repaying the debt to our own indigenous people. I suggest that we have a debt to the people of East Timor. I suggest that the Government should use sanctions against the Indonesian Government, that we should suspend our aid program to Indonesia until it carries out the United Nations decision, until it agrees to abide by the decision made unanimously by the United Nations Security Council. If that is too much of a bitter pill for this Government to swallow, what about sending a special envoy? What about selecting some person from this country who is not associated with the Department of Foreign Affairs? What about insisting that we have an envoy-at-large in East Timor, with adequate protection from the United Nations, to report upon the real feelings of the people of East Timor and to come back and report to this Parliament? We have had special sessions of Parliament to determine things of less consequence and significance than the rights of people to determine their own affairs. 
If we have any conscience at all and if we want to rectify the grave miscarriage of justice that is taking place, then I suggest that, although this matter does not affect our national security but does affect the rights of others, the initiative rests with this Government. Let us put aside my criticism of the Government and the Government's criticism of the former Government. Let us accept the fact that we have all failed, because there is culpability on both sides. Let us recognise that we have a joint responsibility as ordinary people, not just as members of this Parliament, to turn back the clock and ensure that the people of East Timor have a free choice of selfdetermination; that Indonesia's troops are withdrawn; that Indonesia carries out the promise it made to the United Nations, both in December last year and again in April of this year; that Indonesia is not allowed to thumb its nose at the world agency; and that the nations within this region take a stand in support of these fundamental principles. 
As the Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill, the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Bill and the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill are related, the Opposition suggests that the Government might take the 3 Bills together. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statements made by various State Premiers expressing concern at the Prime Minister's statement that State governments, as well as the Australian Government, have a responsibility to cut back public spending? When was that view first expressed to the State Premiers and does it not contradict the federalist policy of the Government? Is not the new policy an attack on the sovereignty and rights of States and why was this change of policy not raised first in the Senate, which is supposed to be the States House? Can the Minister inform me whether the same restriction is to apply also to local government and semi-government authorities, as it seems to represent an expression of centralist philosophies? 
Can the Minister or his advisers inform the Committee of the situation regarding Division No. 520 on page 32 of Supply Bill (No. 1), which relates to the appropriation of an amount of $3m for the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Can the Minister tell us whether that represents the total allocation for the Organisation or whether the process has developed in this country, as it has in the United States, where there are other items within the appropriations in which certain padding takes place which is not identifiable by the Parliament? I realise this is a difficult question to put to the Minister at this stage, but perhaps he might be able to discuss the matter with his advisers to ascertain whether that amount represents the total allocation for ASIO. 
All I want is an assurance that that represents the total allocation made to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and that in fact there is no other area within the appropriations, which we accept as being the barometer of expenditure from different departments and organisations. Does this allocation represent the basic allocation needed for the proper operation and bookkeeping, which we heard so much about this morning in question time, of the various departments and agencies? That is the only assurance I need. I am not attempting to pry into or in any way identify the activities of any person or group within the Organisation itself, but we are concerned with funding. In those circumstances, 1 ask the Minister to express a very firm view that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will give to the Senate the assurance that in fact this represents the total allocation. If the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation requires $4m, for example, surely that can be shown. What concerns democratic-minded people throughout the world, and in the United States Senate particularly, where discussions have taken place, is that there have been departures from normal funding operations. One would hope that that situation has not crept into our accounting system in this country. 
The Opposition supports the Wool Industry Amendment Bill and the 5 Bills dealing with, the wool tax which flow substantially from the primary Bill. This means that in the life of this session of Parliament we have dealt with more than a score of Bills dealing with rural matters and, with the exception of the superphosphate legislation, the Australian Labor Party Opposition has given its assent to all of them. I hope that this will indicate to the rural communities our support for rational legislation and our desire to set straight the record in terms of the propaganda that the Labor Party is not interested in the problems besetting the rural communities, is not able to understand the problems and has adopted a policy of neglect of rural communities. That is not so. This Wool Industry Amendment Bill is just another of those Bills which were initiatives of the Labor Administration. 
With some minor exceptions, the proposed legislation is substantially the same as was proposed by the Whitlam Labor Government. It is based on the needs of the industry and the interests of the Australian people. The present Liberal-National Country Party Government has elected to continue for one more year- that is, 1976-77- the operation of a floor price in the wool market. It must be stressed again that it was a Labor Government which responded to the needs of the wool growers by introducing the floor price scheme in a way in which no previous Liberal-Country Party Government was prepared to do. Whilst this legislation is largely machinery in nature it does provide the required guidelines for accounting procedures to be applied to the Australian Wool Corporation. These accounting procedures or guidelines are necessary in order to take into consideration the additional trading functions associated with any profit or loss during this year arising from the manufacture of and trading in woollen products. These expanded functions of the Corporation were not supported by the existing accounting arrangements. 
The tax levy Bills to support this legislation deal with the grower funded market support scheme, a fund agreed to by the growers which permits them to pick up some of the losses, if any, which occur at the end of the operation of the floor price scheme. This market support fund is operated on a 5 per cent tax on all wool sales and collects some $45m to $50m a year. The Auditor-General has drawn attention to and certified a loss of $22m because of the accounting procedures which had been debited against the fund for the year 1974-75. In order to continue the operation of the fund, new tax Acts for this period have to be passed now, and we give our assent to them. The Wool Industry Amendment Bill amends section 20A of the principal Act by providing that the Minister consult with and have regard to the views of employer organisations, and not only appropriate trade union organisations, before taking action likely to affect the conditions of employment or demand for labour. 
In the original Act the obligation was on the authority to consult with the appropriate trade unions and during the debate on 1 1 December 1974  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture in the Labor Government, discussed this matter in the Senate. He said that he was quite prepared to review the provision in the new year. There was not a great deal of difference between the views of the Opposition and of the Government at that time on this point so it is not a contentious issue for us now. In those circumstances, of course, we agree to add to the legislation that the employer organisations should be consulted because we want both points of view to be recognised and both sides to be consulted. 
The complexity of the legislation only reflects the difficulty in drafting adequate legislation to cover machinery matters concerning accounting procedures of this nature. This legislation picks up a defect discovered in the Wool Amendment Act 1974. That was a drafting defect and not a deliberate defect on the part of the Labor Government. The drafters of the legislation saw fit to provide explicitly for accounting procedures in relation to the activities of the Wool Corporation in the processing, manufacture and trading of wool products. No opposition is given to the consummation of the power expressly provided in the legislation put forward by the Labor Government in the 1 974 amendments to the Bill. The power is subject to the Minister's approval. The change of title of the Wool Scourers, Car.bonisers and Fellmongers' Association of Australia, brings the legislation up to date with the latest change of title to that organisation. 
The Wool Industry Amendment Bill 1976 also deals with existing policy and does not indicate what the Government's future policy will be in relation to the industry, other than to state that it is the policy of this Government to continue the initiatives of the Labor Government for only one more year. I appreciate that that is not the public view but in terms of this legislation it does just that. It continues the initiative which we took. It makes no mention of whether the floor price for wool is to be altered from 250c a kilo for 21 micron wool- that is known as clean, average merino wool- and it does not in any way extend the financial strength of the Corporation to keep abreast with inflation. I draw attention to the fact that graziers and several organisations representing growers are pressing the Government to index the floor price scheme to take into account inflation. Of course, that is a matter with which one of my colleagues will be dealing in more detail. I hazard a guess that the industry must look very carefully at any proposal to index the floor price because it may well create a bottomless pit for the industry in the years to come. 
Whilst it is hoped, and it has been predicted, that the outlook for the wool industry for 1976-77 is good, with clear indications of a revival for the wool industry based on Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development predictions of economic recoveries led by the United States and followed by other major trading partners, the situation is by no means certain. Recent transactions show that the Wool Corporation has not been obliged to buy in so extensively at the floor price. The market is showing those tenuous signs of recovery which will be welcomed, I am sure, not only by the rural communities but also by all Australians. We recognise the fundamental nature of the primary industry as part of our total economic scene. Notwithstanding this, the Government ought to make the firm commitment to stand by and to assist the wool industry and, in particular, the wool growers, at least as much as the Labor Government did when wool growers were confronted with the most severe economic recession since the Second World War. I think the industry needs the sort of assurance that in fact the Government is prepared to aid the industry and to stand by it whatever the vagaries of the market may be. 
The floor price of 250c a kilo for 21 micron wool provided the security necessary to enable wool growers to hang on. It is perhaps indicative that the difficult decision of assessing what the floor price should be has stood the test of time. I think the more far-sighted members of the producers section of this market see the need to keep that situation while it is tempting to suggest that the price should be different. Assessed primarily by market trends and not by the cost of production, figures for which are unavailable because of the vast differences in the size of properties and the quality of wool, the floor price at 250c a kilogram has assisted wool growers when they most needed help without causing an unamanageable drain on the finances of the Corporation. 
The very operation of the floor price system, guaranteed to an extent by the market support fund, illustrates the advantages of having a single marketing and promotional authority partly guaranteed by producers in the industry and supported by the Government. But in the evolution of time rural producers are coming to see the need for government promotional activity and government support schemes of a nature which will provide stability in the rural productions. One might digress for a moment to point out that the party to which I belong supports these general principles. It does not see the need always to involve itself in production incentives because production is now becoming an important negative factor in the whole rural scene. The statistics illustrate that only approximately 80 per cent of the wool market is guaranteed by the operation of the floor price scheme. This occurs not through any fault in this legislation but because of the constitutional constraints placed on any Australian government by the Federal Constitution. 
The Australian Parliament, confined by section 51, and in particular section 51 (i), can only legislate in relation to the export of a commodity, not the mere sale or purchase of a commodity. Thus, until such time as the wool is ready for export the floor price scheme does not operate. Other marketing outlets for the wool growers are the private treaty merchants. It is true to say that these merchants are in a position to undercut the floor price scheme to the detriment of the grower. What is interesting is to assess why some growers are willing to sell their wool to these merchants, often for a lower price than would be received with the floor price operating at auction. 
It seems that the grower is not just bound to the more traditional outlet of the private treaty merchants. Whilst most growers verbally support the existence of an alternative market for the sale of their wool, they do not actually sell to that source at a price lower than that guaranteed at auction unless the need forces them to do so. In many instances it is the very struggling farmer which the floor price was specifically designed to assist who is forced, because of liquidity problems, to accept the cash value of the wool off the sheep's back offered by the private treaty merchant. Many of these farmers, especially mixed farmers, have their time taken up by other production lines on their farms. This is particularly so in Western Australia where it is said that onethird of the clip is sold by private treaty. 
No firm proposal has emanated from the Government in relation to this problem. It is time that the co-operation of the State was required to deal effectively with this matter because the auction system is under State jurisdiction. The need for co-ordination and direction has come from one source. The Wool Corporation may be that very source, but without enabling legislation and the agreement of all the States to legislate concurrently on particular matters, the Corporation cannot be empowered to do so. The Australian Government should not abdicate its responsibility to achieve this consensus. It should offer the necessary leadership. No grandstanding of the new federalism policy and the handing back of taxing powers will compensate for the loss of a nationwide scheme which would benefit both producer and consumer. We suggest to the Government that this matter ought to be examined to see how we can assist those sections of the wool producers who are forced to deal with private treaty merchants. We should see how some other legislative process could be developed which would give the producers the opportunity of participation and benefit from the wool price scheme. 
The wool industry, like so many of our agricultural industries as I have indicated, has been hit by the world recession. The prospect and indications, however tenuous, of the recovery of Australia's major wool trading partners, particularly Japan and members of the Common Market who, for example, purchased 29.2 per cent and 35.9 per cent respectively of our total wool exports for the year 1974-75, are brighter than they were in the several preceding years. We are trusting that that optimism can be maintained. Production in Australia of approximately 790 million kilograms of greasy wool is well below the peak of 925 million kilograms achieved in 1969-70, although that is higher than the interceding years. Of course, even this industry is under-producing, when compared with its potential, because of market considerations. The problems of disposal of the wool are linked with overseas markets, Australia having a mammoth 60 per cent of the total world market. With the operation of the floor price the volume of exports dropped 3.7 per cent. The price level, however, was determined largely by the Wool Corporation which in order to support the price purchased 33.5 per cent of the season's offering in 1974- 75 compared with 6 per cent for 1973-74. The stockpiling had reached 1.6 million bales compared with 176 000 bales for the previous season 1973-74. 
The research and promotion activities of the Wool Corporation no doubt have helped the synthetic products which seriously threaten the wool market. In 1974-75, contribution by the Australian Government to approved programs of wool research was on a 50-50 basis with wool growers, who contribute by way of 3 per cent tax on sales, which taken with the 5 per cent for the market support fund makes a total of an 8 per cent tax on sales. It was decided that in the years 1975- 76 and 1976-77 the Government would contribute three-quarters of the cost of these programs. For this latter period, the Government contributed one-quarter of the projected wool promotion budgets leaving the balance to be paid for by the wool growers. It is to be hoped that this Government's support to the industry will continue. 
Whilst the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, it is clear that by merely extending the initiatives put forward by the Labor Government for only one year the Liberal-National Country Party Government has not indicated to the wool growers and to those members of the rural communities materially affected by the industry what the Liberal-National Country Party policy is or what the Government intends to do in the future. So whilst we support the extension of the program, we feel it is necessary to indicate publicly acceptance of the general principles of the original legislation. Veiled in this extension of what can only be described as holding-on provisions of the floor price, it is hoped that the tenuous signs of recovery in the wool market will blossom and return the industry to the prosperity of the 1950s and the 1960s. This would be welcomed by all Australians but the policies of the Government should not be to sit back and wait and hope. 
The Labor Government, in its short 3 years, sprinkled with 3 election campaigns did not sit back. It instigated many research programs and reports. I think the rural community has not understood the value of the Industries Assistance Commission report and the rural policy Green Paper upon which many meaningful decisions can be made. We are not suggesting that this IAC report is the panacea or the total answer to all of the problems facing the rural communities. But we do believe that its relevance and authenticity in terms of its fundamental study and review of rural production provide the basis upon which a viable rural policy can be determined. In respect of the wool industry, that report went further than any previous LiberalNational Country Party government report in responding to the short term need and support that the industry required whilst it was in office. The Liberal-National Country Party Government before 1972 chose to continue to take  ad hoc  measures in regard to the wool industry. This Government is choosing at least to support that scheme which Labor introduced for another year. Whilst there is no objection to this, it is no substitute for policy decisions and long term planning. The rural communities and all Australians whose prosperity is still linked with the performance of our rural industries in overseas markets cannot afford the luxury of continued government piecemeal or  ad hoc  actions or inaction or a return to the hit-and-miss approach which we believe characterised the rural policies of previous Liberal and National Country Party governments in the 25 years since the second World War. 
The 5 tax Bills are machinery in nature and deal with the tax on the sale of wool in order to continue the contribution by the producers to the market support fund. This fund is to underwrite any final loss in the operation of the floor price introduced by Labor in 1974. There are no new procedures to the operation or collection of the tax or with the carrying out of the operations of the fund. The tax is levied by 5 different Bills because of the interpretation of the Federal Constitution. The levy of 5 per cent on the sale of wool is designed to capture all transactions whether by auction, export or sale by private treaty merchants. At least all of those transactions make some contribution towards the activities and the financial viability of the Wool Corporation. As Labor supports the extension for one year of the floor price for wool it would be inconsistent for us not to support the extension for one year of the collection of the tax for the market support fund. In those circumstances we do not oppose the legislation. We support the 6 Bills that are currently before the Senate. 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Budget proposals outlined by the Minister in the Senate last night, particularly that section detailed 'Income Equalisation Deposits'. Is the Minister aware that the Prime Minister said in a speech that he made in 
Tasmania in July that about 40 per cent of the farmers in many sectors of agriculture are earning less than $5,000 per annum? In the light of that statement and the fact that the new scheme outlined in the Budget will cost the revenue only $2m in the 1 976-77 financial year, does this not mean that small farmers will get little or no benefit from this Budget? Is the Government therefore contemplating taking any other initiatives to assist small farmers in their current financial difficulties? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: How many farmers does the Government expect to take advantage of the income equalisation deposit scheme which was announced in the Budget? Is it likely that, because of low and declining rural incomes, the scheme will prove more attractive to the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers than to full time farmers? Is the Minister able to say how much of the expected loss of revenue of $2m during this year because of the scheme will result from the activities of the part-time city farmers? 
I support the amendment which was so ably moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  because I believe that it represents the economic program that ought to be followed by the Government and the policy which, if applied, would take us somewhere along the path to economic recovery, given the constraints and deficiencies that exist within the economic system. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Has he seen statements from various student leaders in Victorian universities, including Monash University, that the overwhelming majority of those demonstrating at the function attended by the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  on Monday were university students? Is the Minister also aware of a statement made by a senior Commonwealth police officer which confirms that view and asserts therefore that the involvement of unionists was minimal compared with the great number of students demonstrating? In view of the statement made by the Prime Minister that unionists were principally involved, will the Minister seek confirmation of the remarks of the Commonwealth Police officer to substantiate the report, or are we entitled to draw the conclusion that the Prime Minister has misled the Australian people and the Prime Minister's statement is just another example of union bashing by some members of this Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether she is aware that there are now living in Australia 86 Chileans who fled their country following the military coup in Chile in 1974. Is it a fact that these 86 persons are in danger of deportation having arrived here illegally this year, according to the immigration authorities? In view of the compassion shown by Australian governments generally to political refugees from Vietnam will the Government give urgent consideration to applying the same humane principles to these political refugees from Chile? 
I present the following petition from 483 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in N.S.W.: aware of the Australian Bureau of Statistics Report for N.S.W. revealing a drastic fall off in both commencements and approvals for future commencements, of building projects this year as compared to previous years; alarmed at the fact that 1368 building apprentices were registered for unemployment benefit payments during the month of July in N.S. W.: conscious of the fact that most of the unemployed apprentices will never be able to complete their training (thus creating a continuing problem for the industry, and indeed the community as a whole) unless immediate urgent measures are provided for in the Federal Government's Budget; we the undersigned citizens of New South Wales in the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly welfare housing, schools, hospitals and other public buildings above the present dangerously low level; we request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Has the Government's attention been drawn to the latest issue of the  A.M.A. Gazette  and a poster which doctors are asked to display in their waiting rooms? Is the Minister aware that the journal says that 'private insurance is still necessary to cover choice of doctor in hospital' and that the poster is misleading in that it gives emphasis to private insurance? The poster states: 
How do I pay for my Health Care after October 1? It depends whether you want a Doctor of your choice to treat you in hospital. 
It goes on to state: 
If you do, and your taxable income is more than $202 a week . . . then you will be better off taking out Private Insurance for both hospital and medical benefits rather than paying a Medibank tax levy. 
In view of the confusion that still exists in the community and the clear misinformation given by the private insurance companies and the Australian Medical Association, will the Government give consideration to writing to each existing member of Medibank and give the necessary information and assistance so that all citizens can make a free choice in medical care? 
-I join with members of the Senate who have spoken on the death of Mao Tse-tung. I associate myself with the very many tributes which have been paid to his leadership and with the expressions of condolence to the Chinese people which have been made by so many international figures during the last few days. Mao Tse-tung was born at Shaoshan in the Hunan Province in 1893. He became part of the nationalist movement of China. In his early youth, because of the very strong feeling that existed in mainland China about the intervention in the internal affairs of that country by many of the Western powers he became an official of the Kuomintang, which was the revolutionary movement. General Chiang Kai-shek later succeeded to the leadership of this movement. 
It is interesting to look at Mao Tse-tung 's development as a political figure. He was a librarian in his early youth. Subsequently he was a director of a Kuomintang propaganda department and a labour organiser and was associated with one of the great epics in world history- the Long March- in 1934-36. He was part of the leadership that developed the Fourth and Eighth Route Armies which played a very significant part in tying down large sections of the Japanese forces in the Pacific in the 1930s and 1940s. Undoubtedly, they contributed something towards the defeat of the Imperial Army of Japan because of their long involvement from 193 1 to the end of the war in 1945. The Chinese people made many sacrifices in the defeat of the Japanese invading forces. In the period from 1934 to 1936 Mao Tse-tung led a small group of men and women from one end of China to the other, and 15 years later- on 1 October 1949- he proclaimed the People's Republic of China. That surely must indicate something of the leadership qualities of this person whom we are honouring today, and to whom great credit has been given by our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and many other eminent Western figures. 
Mao Tse-tung devoted his whole life to the emancipation of his people. Whilst nobody necessarily is expected to agree with his philosophy or to understand it, it must be said that he succeeded in unifying China, which had not for many centuries been unified. China is the most heavily populated country on the earth and it was a feudal country. One has to pay tribute to the quality of Mao Tse-tung for being able to bring about such advancement in such a short space of time. Not only did he contribute greatly to the advancement of his people, as  Senator Wriedt  has said, but also he wrote many books advancing the particular philosophy with which he had had an early association. He set out to build an egalitarian system of society, and to a great extent he succeeded in that objective. Of course, we in Western civilisation cannot understand much of what has happened but I think it has to be said that in his efforts to improve the living standards of the people of China he largely succeeded. The people were living in appalling conditions, but that is not the position today, as many people- even from this Senatewho have been there in recent years will know. I was one of those who made an early pilgrimage to China. I went there in 1952. One could not fail to be impressed with the progress that was being made even 3 short years after the People's Liberation Army had succeeded in taking over Peking and the whole of China. Therefore, I should like to join with all honourable senators and world leaders in paying tribute to  Chairman  Mao Tsetung, in expressing the condolences of the whole Senate to the Chinese people and to his family and in putting on record our appreciation of his contribution to mankind. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I invite honourable senators to signify their assent to the motion by standing in silence. 

 Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to reports that, apart from the series  Alvin Purple,  news clips of fighting in Timor, a massacre of civilians in Vietnam and other news items, the newly appointed  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, has involved himself in unprecedented censorship of that public corporation. Is the Minister able to tell the Senate whether the  Chairman  of the ABC, on his appointment, was given any instructions to censor the ABC or to interfere in the internal management affairs of that body? Is the Minister aware that the  Chairman  has split the ABC commissioners and has created divisions between the Commission and management, as well as responding to a well-orchestrated letter-writing campaign by the 'Festival of Fright'? In view of the seriousness of the current dispute in the ABC, has the Government given any consideration to asking the  Chairman  of the ABC to resign, thus allowing the ABC to concentrate on its legitimate role of providing a balanced presentation to its ever-widening audience? 
It is clear that the Government is taking the Loan Bill (No. 3) 1976 lightly, knowing of course that the Opposition is supporting it. This Bill seeks authority for the raising of loans to finance the Budget. This is a stratagem that is engaged in every year. At Budget time we have authority to raise certain sums of money by way of loans in order to finance the annual Budget. 
It is pretty clear that the previous  speaker, Senator Maunsell,  was a fill-in  speaker.  He criticised the contribution made by  Senator Georges  because he spoke of general economic matters and strategies being pursued by this Government.  Senator Maunsell  's contribution added very little to the debate. Of course, he used the favourite catch-cry of this Government, that is, that we must get the private sector going. It is like trying to get the beaten favourite going when racing down the straight at Randwick; even though the jockey knows that he is losing the race he keeps on whipping the horse. That is precisely what  Senator Maunsell  was endeavouring to do. He was trying also to put the blame for all the current deficiencies of our society onto those unfortunate people who are out of work. That was another example of the rhetoric which has been symptomatic of many of the speakers from the Government benches when they have been debating important economic matters in the Parliament. 
This behaviour is quite contrary to the disruptive tactics that were engaged in in this place by the conservative parties just a year ago when we were debating a similar Bill. I remind honourable members opposite of the way in which they behaved when we were debating an almost identical Bill in October 1975. It is a great pity that the scribes who sit in the gallery are not the same ones who were here a year ago so that they might compare the performance then with the illogicalities indulged in now by Government spokesmen on economic matters. A year ago a Bill similar to the one that we are debating now was before the Senate for 7 weeks while the then Opposition procrastinated and disrupted the Senate. We then had a lot of flamboyancy and emotionalism in the debate, particularly from the present Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  and  Senator Baume  who were leading the pack. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to some of the remarks that were made then by  Senator Carrick,  who got his reward by becoming a Minister when the government changed in December last year. He talked about an analysis of that 'simple little machinery Loan Bill'. Of course, according to the Government spokesmen in the Houses of Parliament, that is all it is. He said last year that it was a corrupt device, that the corruption was evident throughout the Budget Speech, and so he went on in a rhetorical attack on the economic program of the Government of that day. 

 Senator Carrick and  Senator Baume  went off the deep end in their speeches on 1 October last year during the debate of that Loan Bill. When I spoke a couple of weeks later, on 15 October, I drew attention to what the Melbourne  Age  had said in its economic pages when it suggested that Australia was not making incorrect economic judgments and management decisions in the Budget. That newspaper produced a graph showing that Australia, in terms of its Budget deficit, was in the same category as Germany and the United States of America and claimed that New Zealand and Great Britain were in a worse position than Australia in their Budget deficits. Australia's Budget deficit in 1975-76 represented about 4 per cent of our gross national product. As I said, that newspaper said that Australia was in line with the United States of America and Germany, which had Budget deficits of a similar nature, whereas the deficit of New Zealand represented 5 per cent of its gross national product and that of Great Britain 8.5 per cent. Even Japan was fairly close to our position with a deficit of approximately 3.5 per cent of its gross national product. 
When one examines what was done in 1975 one can see the complete hypocrisy of the conservative forces at that time, aided and abetted as they were by highly placed people in the Australian media and in other conservative places, including the judiciary in the person of  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and the Governor-General. 
Others were brought in also as place men in the strategy to undermine the Government. I should like to draw the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  who led the debate for the Government, to a statement he made in this place last week in reply to a question asked by, I think,  Senator Georges  about the statement of financial transactions for 1976-77.  Senator Georges  drew the Minister's attention to the fact that the Budget deficit for 1975-76 was $ 1,071m and that within the first 2 months of this financial year this Government's Budget deficit was $ 1,456m, which is an increase of $385m or 27 per cent.  Senator Cotton's  reply was that it was most unusual to pick out a particular 2-month period in order to reach a conclusion. He claimed that that was an unfair comparison because the outgoings and incomings within a 12-month period were variable. That was a fair enough comment, but what a pity it was that his leader did not share the same point of view. 
I shall quote from an article which appeared in the  Australian  in September last year, when  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was Leader of the Opposition: 
The Federal Government deficit for the first two months of the present financial year is $ 1,071m, the Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Fraser  claimed yesterday. He warned the House of Representatives the deficit would jump to more than $6,000m by the end of the year if it kept to the July and August rates. 
When a similar question to that asked by  Senator Georges  was asked in the House of Representatives, the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  gave the same sort of reply as did  Senator Cotton.  That indicates the complete inconsistency and hypocrisy of the conservative parties when dealing last year with the Loan Bill and the Budget. They have one standard of conduct for themselves and another for others. It is interesting to hear so much talk about deficits, and of course the purpose of this Bill is to relate itself to deficits. I took the opportunity today to speak to the United States Embassy and to ask what the United States deficit position had been over the last 3 years. 

 - Senator, I am not frightened to go to any source to get information about the way in which other governments operate. Let us face it, the Government takes the view that everything that happens in the United States is good for Australia. Let us look at the situation in that country. In June 1974, under a Republican government, whose philosophy was much closer to that of this Government than would be that of a Democratic government with which perhaps we would have closer affiliations, the United States had a Budget deficit of $3.5 billion, which jumped in June 1975 to $43.6 billion and in June 1976 to $76 billion. So there has been an increase in the United States deficit from $3.5 billion to $76 billion- twenty times greater in a space of some 3 years. 
The Budget deficit of the first Labor Government in 1973-74 was $293m. It is certainly true that it went up to $3, 585m. I am quoting from the official Treasury documents that were supplied with the Budget. I am referring to table 1, page 142, of the Budget Speech. In point of fact, it is the one presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the House of Representatives. That deficit is so small in comparison to that of the United States in its deficit budgeting arrangements. It did not stop the conservatives in this place in April 1974 from denying Supply and bringing about the defeat of the then Government and the double dissolution in May of that year. Yet we are led to believe that the whole problem associated with the economy in this country is related to deficit budgeting. If that is the case, and if  Senator Maunsell  has any relevance in this debate, how can he relate to the fact that the United States economic position has improved? Whilst it is true that, at the moment, the United States economy is somewhat stagnant, its inflation rate has fallen. Yet its deficit has increased out of all proportion in comparison with ours. 
I find myself denying completely the illogic of the Government speakers who suggested that everything wrong with the economy in this country is due to the fact that there was, as  Senator Missen  said, a 46 per cent increase in Government spending in the 3 years of the Labor Government. Heavens above, the former Labor Government was subjected to arrant criticism in this chamber, particularly by  Senator Carrick,  because in its last Budget it made some changes in the arrangements concerning Commonwealth outgoings to the States and CommonwealthState relationships and because there was a minor reduction in expenditure and a change in the arrangements in respect to education. It was criticised also because it took certain steps to eradicate long overdue tax concessions and other malfunctions in our taxation system and budgeting arrangements over the years. It is suggested by those who do not think very deeply about this problem of economics that if governments go ahead and spend money on, for example, schools or hospitals, that is in itself inflationary, whereas if the private sector goes ahead with the mad building spree that we have seen taking place in the business districts of Sydney and Melbourne that is not inflationary. If the private sector spends thousands of millions of dollars on a building spree in our capital cities that is desirable, despite the fact that socially it contributes nothing to the improvement of living standards, whereas if governments do this through the agencies of State and local government authorities it is inflationary. 
That leads me to the same general conclusion as that to which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has come in his contribution to the Budget debate in the House of Representatives, in public statements he has made and in letters to the  Australian Financial Review.  What has  Mr Wentworth  said? In the  Financial Review  of 24 August 1976 he challenged the whole basis upon which we are carrying out our accounting system and he drew attention to the illogical thinking of those who believe that our capital works represent a negative in terms of our economic activity and that they are not to be regarded as a positive, an asset, for the people of Australia.  Mr Wentworth  said: 
It is now clear from the papers presented with the Budget that in no reasonable sense of the word was there a deficit for 1 975-76- nor is any such deficit in prospect for 1 976-77. 
I urge  Senator Maunsell  to read that article and try to evaluate and understand what his esteemed colleague has been trying to present to the Australian people.  Mr Wentworth  draws attention to the deficit when related to capital expenditure. Capital works constitute a very important output in terms of the budgeting arrangements of the Commonwealth in its own right and in its funding to the States.  Senator Maunsell  will do well to study what  Mr Wentworth  has said. He might get some of the nonsense out of his thinking.  Mr Wentworth  is right because I have checked his figures. In respect of capital expenditure in 1975-76 on buildings and the provision of services of a permanent nature for the Australian people, the deficit under Labor's Budget was $2 19m. Under the present Government's Budget it is $574m. That is the way the Government ought to be approaching its analysis of this Budget. 
All Government speakers have spoken for some time about business confidence and about inflation being the evil. I am not suggesting that it is not but the Government has never attempted to work out why inflation is the evil. It was the American Government which caused inflation by financing its escapades and involvement in Korea, Vietnam and other parts of the world. Because of its tremendous trading relations the U.S. was able to inflate the world economies by manufacturing sufficient American dollars to float and filter into. all the other economies of the Western world- even penetrating the socialist world where people have a much tighter control of their national economies. Yet members of the then Opposition said that it was the small amount of public spending by the Whitlam Government that brought about the great problem facing this country. Representatives from the major business corporations of this country, in evidence before a Senate committee, indicated that there had been a rundown in private investment ig the manufacturing industry since 1967. Government senators do not even read their own reports to understand this. The documents are there for them to see. The written evidence is there for them to see. That was 5 years before a Labor Government came into office. The problem is still with us. As someone said on  AM  over the last couple of days, spokesmen for the manufacturing industry still believe that this Government does not understand the problems facing manufacturing industry in this country. 
I do not blame  Senator Cotton  for suggesting in his speeches and contributions to the media that we have to get the consumers' confidence going, get them to spend and get rid of our stocks. It is said that the reason why people are not spending is that they are afeared of the spectre of inflation. Can anybody, any government supporter, tell me how they come to that conclusion? Can anybody tell me the basis on which they are making that assessment? People are putting their money in the savings banks. It may well be that they are doing this because they are afeared of unemployment, not inflation. Nobody in his right senses would believe that money in the bank earning interest at 334 per cent, 4 per cent or even 5 per cent, or money put in a fixed deposit earning 9 per cent will counter inflation when, according to the Goverment 's own Budget documents, inflation will remain at 12 per cent. The way in which food prices and other prices in the consumer price index are rising it will be considerably more than that in the next financial year. Yet it is suggested that all the Government has to do is to get people to buy in the shops and everything will come good. 
It denies the obvious facts in all the Western countries, that there is a greater and more fundamental deficiency within society itself than just the reluctance of somebody to buy a shirt, a refrigerator, a motorcar or whatever else is stocked up in the houses of commerce. We did not do so last year but now this Government is even asking the States to economise and cut back on their expenditures. This has happened although we were criticised last year and earlier this year by people like  Senator Carrick.  I believe that to ask the States to economise and cut back expenditure is to go in the wrong direction. We cannot have a reduction in government expenditure when there is a downturn in economic activity. I support entirely what  Mr Wentworth  and my colleague  Mr Hurford  have been saying about the need for some selective government spending in order to stimulate the economy. We know that there is a lot of speculation about revaluation and this clearly would cause concern to people who might have capital in Australia for investment. 
We have to come to the conclusion that the Budget strategy is not working. I can only use what evidence is available to us. I think one Minister said today that the Government had certain confidential information about economic problems and activity which was not generally available. I do not believe that that sort of information should be confidential. If the Government has figures and information available it seems to me that the matter ought to be debated publicly. We can rely only on the evidence freely available to us. The publication  Inside Canberra  had this to say: 
An overwhelming proportion of Australia's manufacturers consider the Budget introduced to the House of Representatives last month will do nothing to stimulate their business or the economy generally. 
Inside Canberra' and 'Canberra Survey' are in the process of analysing replies to one of their periodic surveys of subscribers, who comprise the principals of most of Australia's leading business undertakings. One of the questions asked was 'Has the Budget encouraged you to expand your business in the next six months?' Of the 200 replies received and checked so far, only 28 respondents said 'Yes'. The remaining 172 replied 'No , or in one or two cases 'not applicable'. Full results of the survey, which contained 10 key questions, will appear in 'Canberra Survey ' in October. 
As I have pointed out, there is facing us this problem of the decline of private investment in manufacturing industry. There is this decline in activity in the agricultural sector. I am surprised that  Senator Maunsell  would take the view that people in these areas ought to produce more. One of the points he made was that there ought to be more productivity. Heavens above, if we have too many agricultural products and we have more than the market can absorb and therefore have to make cuts, as we have had to do in secondary industry, what is the point of producing more? Why would manufacturing industry leaders be concerned about putting in new machinery? Why would they respond to investment allowances and things of that nature when the machines they have are under producing, are inactive, are not working as they were working back in the 1950s and 1960s when they were working for 24 hours a day in three 8-hour shifts? If they were not working for as long as that, people certainly were working excessive and massive overtime in order to produce goods. Why would anyone who cannot sell what he is producing now be encouraged to put in new machines to produce more? He would have to be out of his head. Yet that is precisely the strategy which the Government suggests should be the basis of revival in this country. Private sector revival is the core upon which this Government has built its Budget strategy. 
Similarly, in the field of agriculture, I cannot understand how farmers like  Senator Maunsell  and many of his colleagues could possibly argue for increased productivity. We all know that world markets are contracting, that prices are dropping and that many of our key industries in the primary industry area are relying on short falls in other parts of the world as a result of famine or lack of response to calls for increased production in order to survive. The likelihood is that if the Russians and the Chinese have a good harvest, even our wheat industry, which has been the pivot of some stability, is likely to be affected.  Senator Maunsell  ought to know that agricultural productivity has increased three times over the last 25 years despite the fact that there has been a decline of one-third in the number of people involved in farming and producing agricultural goods. Why the heck would they want to produce even more goods and why are more goods required from the manufacturing industries in Australia? All these matters are related.  Senator Georges  was correct in relating these matters to this Bill because this Government's entire strategy is to cut back public spending. In my view and in the view of my Party, the public sector is the only area in which we will get certain responses and are likely to get any sort of economic revival provided that action is taken selectively. 
Now there are more people out of work because the Government has taken steps to close down the shipbuilding industry. Whatever that industry represents in total spending power, those workers hitherto have received reasonably high rates of pay, but where will they be in 3 months, 4 months, 6 months or 12 months time in terms of purchasing power? They will have less money to spend than that which was in their pockets hitherto. How will they be able to buy the goods that  Senator Cotton  says have to be bought if we are to get economic revival? We of the Opposition are not being disruptive and discourteous in raising these matters. In supporting this Bill at least we show that we adopt a responsible attitude to our tasks in this place. 
I want to finish on the note on which I started. The debate on this Bill contrasts starkly with the behaviour pattern of the Conservative parties in this chamber less than a year ago when they would not take steps to pass our Loan Bills at that time. They held them up and engaged in a propaganda campaign which finally undermined public confidence in the then Government. At that time the Conservative parties used all the nefarious and subversive actions conceivable in that situation to bring about the defeat of an elected government. Now they have the problem and they have the audacity to talk about the need for co-operation. Heavens above, they ought to talk about co-operation after the way they carried on! We had 3 elections in 3 years. We had only been in office for 5 months when  Senator Withers  admitted in this place that his Party sought to bring down the Government. The parties opposite did that within a year of the time he made that statement. At that time I drew attention to the fact that our deficit was considerably below the deficit of the previous Government the year before. Our deficit in our first year was $2 93 m but that of the parties opposite in the previous year when they were trying to get economic revival was $709m. They are their figures, not mine. Honourable senators opposite have the audacity to suggest that people have to work a bit harder, to stop bludging, and that the Opposition should start to co-operate. Let me tell them that they are whistling in the dark. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general inquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government given any consideration to supporting the efforts of  Dr Kissinger  to persuade the Rhodesian Government that Rhodesia must inevitably accept the principle of majority rule and work to that end? Is the Minister aware that the Government of the United States of America has won support for this basic democratic principle from the United Kingdom, French and other European governments as well as the South African Government? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government sees these steps as the only way to avoid an eventual bloodbath in Rhodesia? 
I feel that my question, which relates to trade, may come within the province of the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the desperate state of the apple and pear industry in Australia? Is the Minister also aware of reports that there have been vast increases in the imports of canned apples from New Zealand? Does the Minister know that many Australian canneries have large stocks of canned apples on hand from local fruit growing areas? In these circumstances, can the Minister say what action the Government proposes to take to stop the dumping of New Zealand surpluses on our domestic market at a time of depressed conditions in Australia? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general inquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware of the threat to much of Australia's natural eucalypt forests, particularly in Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmania, caused by the fungal disease phytophthora cinnamomi and the disastrous effect it could have on the export woodchip industry, the paper manufacturing industry and our national forest heritage. Will the Government agree to conduct an urgent study into the extent of the disease and its long-term effects on the industries mentioned and on the environment? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. To some degree it follows upon questions asked by his colleagues  Senator Missen  and  Senator Kilgariff.  Is the Minister aware that in today's Melbourne  Herald  it is stated that the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  claims that  Mr Peacock,  in April this year assured him that the Australian Government understood that Indonesia had to annex East Timor? Does the Minister know that the article also states that the Prime Minister's impending visit to Indonesia leads the Indonesian Government to believe that the Australian Government accepts Indonesia's position in East Timor? In view of the Minister's reaffirmation- I welcomed it, as I am sure the Opposition welcomed it- of the Government's stand for self-determination for the Timorese people, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to repudiate  Mr Malik's  statement and again ask the Indonesian Government to withdraw its troops from East Timor in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations? 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia and users of the New South Wales Environment Centre, an open, community resource and information facility established with funds provided by the federal government, respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations arc needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the government 's program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether it is a fact that his colleagues the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry have made recommendations to the Government for either the repeal or the major modification of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act because they are under pressure from the mining and woodchip industries. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the increasing number of reports, articles and statements by scientists, nutritionists and medical commentators drawing attention to additives, preservatives and the like, being included in food and drinks consumed by children? Is it a fact that such additives have a negative effect on young children and that hyperactivity in children is a direct result of adulterated food and drink and that the children's health is therefore undermined? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, or any other agency, is conducting any fundamental inquiry or investigation into such adulteration and whether these reports have any authenticity? Is the Government contemplating any legislation to control such additives? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general inquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, as Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is he aware that International Labor Organisation Convention No. Ill concerning discrimination in respect of employment and occupation affirms that:   all human beings, irrespective of race, creed or sex, have the right to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, of economic security and equal opportunity . . . 
And further affirms that such discrimination, if practised, would constitute:  a violation of rights enunciated by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . . . 
Is he further aware that the Convention defines discrimination' as exclusion, preference which has the effect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation as may be determined by the member concerned after consultation with representative employers' and workers' organisations where such exist  1  1n view of that Declaration, to which we are a signatory I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the actions of the Queensland Government and the statements of the Premier of that State regarding the civil action against 3 teachers and a railway worker, which has had the effect of imposing double penalties on such employees? Do not these actions contravene the ILO Convention? Is it proper that citizens should not only be dealt with in the civil courts but also lose their employment and then be denied by the Premier an opportunity for reinstatement? What action can the Government take, legislative or otherwise, to protect citizens from such discrimination which nullifies the spirit and the principles of the ILO Charter? 
This matter of urgency gives the Senate the opportunity to debate the problems of unemployment. It is clear from the debate that has ensued that this sort of debate is long overdue. Some emotion has, of course, been introduced into the debate, as well as a lot of rhetoric. A lot of simple explanations and simple theories have been propounded by Government supporters and this would seem to indicate that they think one or two simple theories can solve the very vexed problem of inflation and unemployment which is a characteristic not only of Australia but also of many other countries. It is clear that Government supporters fail to appreciate the chronic sickness which is now not only a symptom but also a fact of life in the whole of the industrialised nations of the Western world. They failed to perceive that there are obviously some structural deficiencies, some weaknesses such as those to which my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  drew attention, within capitalism itself which have to be examined by the community as well as by governments if we are in any way to make any impact upon the problems of inflation and unemployment. 
The Government seeks to say that all that has to happen from its Budget strategy and its general economic program is a reduction in inflation and therefore we will have taken a step along the path of economic recovery. If we look at the speeches which characterised the Government in the late 1960s and the early 1970s when this chronic sickness was manifesting itself, we will find the same mish-mash, the same contributions, the same simple theories being advanced. These theories proved to be a failure in the period when  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Snedden  were Treasurers in Liberal-Country Party governments. On this occasion Government senators are suggesting that all we have to do is achieve an economic revival in the private sector and get consumer demand moving. In the process the whole problem will be resolved by getting the consumers to buy and by exercising some measure of wage restraint. There is a great contradiction in that simple proposition. If in fact a consumer revival is the strategy of this Government it will not be achieved if we reduce the living standards of the Australian people and reduce the purchasing power of the consumers. That is what is happening in a period of inflation. Unless wage rates continue to rise less money will be spent by the consumers. It is not lower wages that are required but higher wages if we are to have some consumer revival. 
One has to examine why the Government got into this economic malaise- there is no other word to describe it. Of course it is being advised by the same advisers who advised the previous Government about economic policy. The men of stone who gave the Labor Government the sort of advice which sometimes we hear criticised in this chamber are the same men of stone who are now giving this Government advice in respect of the economic situation in this country. The advice given was that there should be an unemployment pool of 6 per cent. The Labor Government rejected that concept, but this Government is clearly accepting it as an important part of its whole ecomonic program. By emphasising and stressing inflation the Government is going against all of the experiences in the Western world; it is going against the experiences within even our own country. One has only to look at some of the advice that has come out of industry itself to appreciate this fact. I refer to bulletin number 276 of the Australian Industries Development Association- this is not a trade union body; it is a body that represents ten of the major industries of this country. It says:  the thrust of economic policies being exercised at present is towards curbing inflation. That's an important problem. But is there not a risk of going overboard about it? 
In its September bulletin AIDA goes on to say: 
Thirdly, there is no clear guarantee, in the official view or otherwise, that recovery will happen automatically, once inflation is wound down. 
It continues:  . . the official view tends to play down the extent to which policy uncertainty- on the tariff front, about the regulatory institutions, and about export and research incentivesall of which existed- 
Says AIDA, this very important commercial and industrial organisation- long before inflation became a problem, have in addition to inflation depressed the incentives for Australian industry to expand. 
Of course that is the major problem that exists in the highly industrialised country of Australia. What was said at the Perth conference recently of the Australian Steel Convention by  Mr Johnson?  A report of the meeting states: 
Australia's manufacturing industry is in a disastrous position. This was the grim message received by delegates at the Australian Steel Convention in Perth yesterday ...  Mr Johnson  said that an analysis of new manufacturing ventures supplying Australia showed that growth was occurring not in Australia, but in Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and other countries where there existed low wages or high productivity. 
Is that what we want? Is the sort of alternative that this Government wants high productivity and low wages? This is what is happening to capital in this country as it moves from Australia to those countries. The report continues: 

 Mr Johnson warned that job prospects for young people would be reduced to the choice of the 1930s- fishing, farming, mining or the dole- if that trend continued. 
Let us examine what the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission is reported to have said in the  Financial Review  only a week ago. He said that only the fittest industries in Australia will survive. That is contrary to the very charter of the IAC. Under the Labor Government's administration the IAC was obliged to have regard to the desire of the Government- a Labor Government was in power when this legislation was pursued in Parliament in 1973- in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia, with full employment, stability in the general level of prices, viability in external economic relations, conservation of the natural environment and rising living standards. Yet it is that organisation upon which this Government is now relying to close down the shipbuilding industry; it is that organisation upon which this Government is going to rely to close down our motor car industry; and it is that organisation on which this Government is relying to bring about rationalisation in the whole area of agriculture. 
I want to spend the few remaining minutes of my time with the problems of unemployment as they apply to agriculture. But before doing so I want to say that last year the main thrust of the conservatives was to blame the Whitlam Government for the problems of unemployment. When the figures in August showed an increase in unemployment in Australia to 5.15 per cent of the workforce and that 1 17 000 people were out of work in New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis, the Leader of the Liberal Party in New South Wales, and subsequently  Mr Fraser  had the temerity not to blame the Federal Government but the State Government of  Mr Wran  which had come into office only a few months prior to that time. What do the current figures show? They show that pro rata the greatest number of people are out of work in the Northern Territory. Tasmania is next. It has had an increase in unemployment in the rural areas. In fact in Tasmania more people are out of work in the rural areas than in the urban areas. Queensland is in a similar position. 
We can go through the unemployment figures to see the tragic state of affairs that exists in the rural areas. The figures I have been able to take out show an alarming situation from the point of view of our rural communities. For example, in Bathurst, New South Wales, in July 1975 463 people were out of work. Today 694 people are out of work- that is an increase of 49.89 per cent. In Bega the numbers of unemployed have increased from 638 to 1 106- an increase of 73.35 per cent. In Cowra unemployment has risen from 677 persons to 792 persons- an increase of 16 per cent. In Dubbo the number of unemployed increased from 1623 to 2282, an increase of 40 per cent; in Lismore there was an increase of 50 per cent; in Tamworth an increase of 32 per cent; and in Taree an increase of 43.72 per cent. It is small wonder that the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party in Victoria said that at the end of June 7.5 per cent of the work force in country areas was unemployed compared with 3.5 per cent in the metropolitan area. Yet, in the Press today the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  has indicated that according to a survey that his Department has carried out it is expected that there will be an increase in unemployment from 4.8 per cent, which is the national average, to 6 per cent by January 1977. What sort of future lies ahead for those in the rural communities? 
I should like to present to the Senate some of the comments made as a result of a survey that has been carried out by members of the Government. The honourable member for Angas,  Mr Giles,  as  Chairman  of the Joint Parties Government Committee, went on a trip to Victoria and Tasmania 4 months ago. He presented a report to his own Government about the povertystricken areas of Tasmania and Victoria. In his report he said: 
Our concept of  freedom  from government interference won't work when they're broke. 
When speaking about farmers he said: 
Bankruptcy ... a much more serious proposition than worrying about future inflation. 
He went on to say that there is a need to make statements that we do want a dairying industry, a canned fruits industry, a dried fruits industry and so on. He stated also that the Press reports of company tax investment allowances and tax indexation are not only of no help at all to people in these areas but also are a positive irritant to them. 
The report that the Presbyterian Church of Victoria placed before the Government in an interview with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently shows how the rural infrastructure is collapsing in many parts of Australia. Surely these matters ought to be debated and discussed in the national Parliament. Yet, it was the Labor Government which took the initiative to do this. The report of the Presbyterian Church expressed its deep concern for these families which evidence the pressures, privations and severe anxieties occasioned by the present crisis in rural industry and, in particular, in the dairying and beef industries. These symptoms were in evidence before we came to office in 1972. These symptoms were part of a malady that grips the capitalist society. Yet one would imagine that just by the sheer simple mechanism of appealing to the unions to accept lower wages all this can be changed and in point of fact it will bring about that consumer revival upon which this Government's Budget strategy depends so much. 
The report which the Presbyterian Church has placed before the Parliament and my own experiences during the parliamentary recess between the autumn and spring sessions of the Parliament indicate clearly the very grave problem that exists in so many centres of rural Australia. Yet there is nothing in this Budget to alleviate the problems confronted by those in the rural communities. There is no hope in the Government's economic program. A malady exists. The few palliatives that this Government has brought forward were not provided for in the Budget. They are stop gap measures taken to try to meet a situation which is beyond the control of this Government. Therefore it is no wonder that there is an increasing concern within the Australian community about the problems of unemployment; about the problems of inflation; about the growth concepts in this country; about where this country is going; about whether there is any future in the manufacturing industry; and about the role which the Industries Assistance Commission is taking in its attempts to bring about some form of rationalisation in the belief that in so doing it will bring about a better standard of living. On the contrary, it will depress living standards in Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer him to the blatantly partisan decision by  President  Ford to impose statutory quotas on beef exports to the United States by all countries. To what extent has the action of the  President  infringed the rules established under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade? Was there any consultation or negotiations between the United States authorities and Australian authorities at any relevant level before this seemingly unilateral action was taken by  President  Ford? In view of the imbalance of trade between Australia and the United States, which favours the United States approximately two to one, is the Government contemplating retaliatory action on Australian imports from the United States in order to establish beyond any doubt Australia's resolve to protect established Australian beef export markets? If such action is not considered, what action is the Government determined to take? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programmes. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the inquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to the scurrilous racist circular forwarded to members advising of the formation of the Anti-Semite League and which calls for, among other things, the deportation to the state of Israel of all Australian resident jews? Can the Minister advise whether this is one of the 23 racist organisations referred to by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the House of Representatives? What action does the Government contemplate to enforce the letter and the spirit of the Racial Discrimination Act against the operation of such bodies? Will the Minister be tabling the report on these organisations, compiled by the office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, in order to inform the public and to protect prominent Australians such as the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who unwittingly accepted an invitation to become patron of one of these groups in the absence of knowledge of the aims and objectives of the organisation? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will give increasing support to the Office and the officers of the Commissioner for Community Relations which, independently of government, have the task of combating racial discrimination in Australia. 

That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to establish a definite trade relationship with the Government of the United States and the limiting effect of this failure upon access to the United States domestic market for Australian beef. 
The motion which the Opposition submits for the consideration of the Senate is designed to enable a public debate on the problems besetting the Australian beef industry and the very recent decision taken by  President  Ford- probably endorsed by the other Presidential candidate,  Mr Carter-  to suspend the importation of beef into the United States of America from all beef exporting countries. The urgency motion has been moved in the Senate by the Opposition because we believe that it is one of the few remaining ways in which the Opposition can express its views, particularly on the disastrous way in which the Government has continued during its 1 1 months of office to ignore the real needs of the Australian beef industry. Only in the Parliament can we debate these important issues. We are denied access to rural newspapers, most of which are owned by National Country Party supporters. This section of the Australian media applies a strict censorship on Labor Party views and Press statements and ignores parliamentary comment except by the Government. It defends in an unbelievably biased way the policies and statements of the conservative parties. It is an apologist for the Government and inevitably gives publicity to such rural spokesmen as suit its ideological position. Rarely does it tell the whole story of the basic rural crisis facing our country. It concentrates on effects and not causes. 
The motion highlights the plight of thousands of beef producers and the disastrous effects of declining overseas markets. In obtaining some reasonable statistics to use in speaking to this motion I have sought no other authority than the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which has carried out a survey on the Australian grazing industry. Its survey has shown that something like 38 859 farmers can be described as dominant beef producers. An alarming fact, which we know is in the knowledge of this Government because the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, when speaking at a rural conference in June this year drew attention to it, is that something like half of beef producers are in fact receiving less than $4,000 a year. 
A closer analysis of this shows that in the year 1974-75 something like 45 per cent of those in the pastoral zone involved in beef production had a negative income. In the wheat and sheep zone in 1974-75 some 16 per cent of those involved in beef production had negative incomes. In the high rainfall zone in that same year some 50 per cent of the 30 000 people involved in beef production had negative incomes. Figures for the subsequent year- they are the most recent figures available to us- show that the situation in the pastoral zone has become worse from the point of view of the beef producers. There was a marginal increase in average incomes of those involved in beef production in the wheat and sheep zone of only $2,900 per annum and an increase of only $80 per annum in the average income of those involved in beef production in the high rainfall zone. 
We are entitled to say that the plight of the beef producers is critical and that this is within the knowledge of this Government because the Prime Minister has already referred to it. It is equally clear from the Government's gagging of a debate in the other place yesterday that the Government is at last becoming sensitive to its failures in its rural policies. Until now it appeared that it was impervious to the growing criticism that has been developing of the problems besetting various sectors of Australian rural activity. It may be that now it is becoming embarrassed by its failures to help rural producers. Yet in its subservience to its big brother trading partner, the United States of America, it has done no more than to raise a mild protest at the latest decision of the United States of America. The Government is ineffectual and has become an impotent voice box for the beef industry. Its efforts can only be described as feeble, feckless and futile. 
The most recent figures available show that over 1 7 000 dominant beef producers currently receive no income and are thus forced into extensive borrowing in order to survive or are forced into bankruptcy. We know that in its reports the Industries Assistance Commission has talked about the rationalisation of the beef industry. This is no solution to the problems facing so many of these 17 000 beef producers. The position of these producers deteriorates markedly when there is a run-down in our export markets. 
It has been obvious for months, surely, to any rural watcher or to any person concerned with our rural industry, that the American cattlemen were going to hobble the American presidential candidates. Report after report has appeared in Australian newspapers of pressure by American cattlemen firstly on the presidential candidate of the Democratic Party and secondly on the United States  President  himself. United States cattlemen have made demands for some shutdown on imports of overseas beef. Yet our coalition Government has stood idly by, piously hoping and writing tedious letters trying to stem this trend. 
The reliance of beef producers on export markets needs little emphasis. You,  Mr Deputy President,  as a representative of them in this place would know that about 45 per cent of all production in the meat industry is destined for export markets and that the United States market accounts for half of this tremendous amount of production in Australia. So, one has to wonder why it is that we have allowed this position to drag on for so long and have not recognised the development of this major problem. I will quote some figures supplied to me by the Australian Meat Board showing the fluctuations in shipping of our beef overseas. For example, in June 1 974, 291 548 tonnes ship weight were shipped from Australia to the United States of America. In the following year, the export to the United States fell to 289 000 tonnes. Last year, 298 000 tonnes of beef was exported to the United States. This means that in the 3 years in question there have been very little differences in the amounts of beef exported to the United States market. 
Exports to Canada, again in ship weight terms, rose from 27 355 tonnes in June 1974 to 28 167 tonnes in the following year, and to 38 453 tonnes to June 1976. For exports of beef to Japan, 1 974 was a peak year, when beef exports totalled 120 870 tonnes ship weight. The level of exports to Japan dropped away alarmingly in the following year. We all know the squeals which came from then Opposition spokesmen and Opposition members in the middle part of last year when that export level dropped to 8000 tonnes ship weight. For the year ended 30 June this year the export level had risen to 65 000 tonnes ship weight. I will have something more to say about that aspect in respect of the problems facing those export markets. 
The decision of the United States  President  to impose statutory quotas on beef imports from Australia without prior consultation on an official or relevant level with Australian officials indicated the type of trade relationship and the lack of rapport into which this Government has quickly plunged Australia's relations with one of our major trading partners. The decision effectively means that Australia will have to renegotiate its quotas with the United States Government which, in the present conditions of surplus exports, can only mean the likelihood of a substantial fall in Australian beef exports. Australian conservative governments have claimed consistently in post-war years that they have a special relationship with the United States. It is a peculiar sort of special relationship if the actions of the United States  President  in an election year are such as to demonstrate that he has little consideration of his responsibility to us in Australia and that he places our trading goodwill at the bottom of his priority list. 
Already, the United States has a trading advantage roughly 2 times in its favour over Australia. The pressures of such an imbalance are now exacerbated by this decision, but the Australian Government remains ineffectual and is willing to sell the rural sector short, preferring to permit the wholesale bankruptcy of a former prosperous industry rather than to express Australia's disapproval in forceful terms backed with action. That is what is required. 
The action of the United States Government is contrary to the spirit of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to which both Australia and the United States are signatories. Over the last 25 years on each occasion- I think there were at least six- Australia has drawn the attention of its major trading partners to infringements of the GATT rules in respect of agricultural products.  President  Ford, without prior consultation with Australia-  Senator Cotton  indicated that yesterday in reply to a question which I asked- has placed our beef industry in jeopardy, and  Mr Sinclair  has done nothing.  Mr Sinclair  was noted for his eloquence in Opposition.  His  empty thunder when in Opposition is well illustrated by his call for- I quote from a statement he made in a speech at Wangaratta on 5 September 1975- bi-lateral government to government talks with the United States of America aimed at ensuring adequate Australian access to these markets. The actions of the American Government and  Mr Sinclair's  failure to put action where his mouth is show what a blank cartridge he is. He has been shown to be an ornamental representative of country people.  His  words are many, his achievements are nil. He is surely now to be recognised as a charlatan representative of country interests. 
All along the line the Australian beef industry and the rural sector have been deceived by the Liberal and National Country parties which rely on petty propaganda to conceal their lack of concern and their inaction. This Government, when in Opposition and in its caretaker capacity before the last election, quite blatantly and purposefully ignored the interests of country people. It took them for granted. It sought to retain its support with words rather than deeds. I quote from some of the statements made by  Mr Sinclair  on the beef industry and compare them with his abysmal record of non-achievement since he came to office. For example, on 18 August 1975 in the Australian  Mr Sinclair  unveiled a National Country Party program for primary industry. The program called for 'more carry-on finance for beef producers'. I am quoting from the article. He claimed that the present $39.6m government allocation by Labor was inadequate. They were his words. The article continues: 
It is understood the Country Party wants at least $ 100m lent to producers at 4 per cent interest, with an initial 2-year interest moratorium. 
How does this compare with his performance in a Press release one year later, less one day, on 1 7 August 1976 when he had the responsibility and was not able to shelter as an Opposition spokesman?  Mr Sinclair  announced that his Government had provided up to $ 1 5m in loan assistance to the beef industry on a dollar for dollar basis with the States.  Mr Sinclair's  performance hardly compares with that of the Labor Government which allocated in its 1975-76 Budget, its last Budget, $ 19.6m for carry-on loans. It is interesting to note that when the conservative parties came into office in November they spent only $ 11.3m of the Labor Party allocation of $ 19.6m. That information is contained in the documents which were given to us several weeks ago in respect of the present Budget. All of this was done in that insane attitude that there had to be a cutback in public spending. Let me quote further from this vociferous spokesman for primary industry again because his words belie and crucify him. In a Press release of 5 May 1975 he said: 
There is no doubt in my mind that one of the major reasons why the Australian beef market in Japan has collapsed so dramatically in the past year has been the Australian Government's trading policy. 
He also said: 
I am sure that Australia would sell - 
These are his words:  five, ten or twenty times more beef to Japan, if the Government adopted a realistic attitude to its overseas trading policies. 
What is the position? The Government is selling to Japan only half the amount of beef that was sold under Labor in 1974. The evidence, of course, shows that it was not the Australian Labor Government's deficiencies or policies that caused the dramatic drop in beef exports to Japan but rather the Japanese beef lobby that put the squeeze on the Japanese Government. The Japanese Government crumbled when the cattlemen moved, just as  President  Ford crumbled when the cattlemen in the United States moved over the last several weeks. Again, this irrational, unreal and exaggerated claim has not been matched by performance. The Japanese market for our beef has only just reached 50 per cent of the export figure for 1974. Admittedly, the Japanese market has been reopened to a degree, but this would have happened regardless of which Government was in power. It is to the detriment of the present Government, if it claims that Labor was at fault in 1974 and 1975, that it has reached only 65 000 tonnes this year. 
All of this has happened in spite of  Mr Anthony's  much heralded visit to Tokyo recently. What have this Government's representatives, from the Prime Minister down, been other than the inconsequential lackeys of our trading partners or host nations? In China the Prime Minister responded to his hosts, ingratiating himself with the Chinese. In Indonesia he offended the Chinese, ingratiated himself with  President  Suharto and made a gaffe over East Timor. I would like to place more of  Mr Sinclair's  hypocritical statement on the record and compare that again with his performance as Minister. Speaking to a meeting at Wangaratta on 5 September 1975 he said: 
The economic problems facing the beef industry are generating grave social problems for the families of beef producers and their employees . . . The total failure to act will bring down on Australia not only an economic tragedy but also a widespread, lingering social tragedy. 
The Opposition agrees with that. The Prime Minister has repeated those words on a number of occasions.  Mr Sinclair  was quoted in the  West Australian  of 29 November as saying: 
To maintain owner-operated farms as the basic unit of Australian agriculture, steps would be taken to provide capital at realistic terms. 

 Mr Sinclair has not lived up to that statement nor has he matched the Labor Government's record. In a Press release on 28 April 1975  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture, announced that Australia would make available $ 1 9.6m to beef producers at 4 per cent with no interest or capital repayments required in the first year and with the forgone interest payments capitalised. 
Let us look at  Mr Sinclair  as something more than a Minister, more than a so-called representative of rural interests. Let us look at  Mr Sinclair  as a forecaster. In an article in the  Canberra Times  on 10 July 1 976 2 National Country Party Ministers-  Mr Adermann,  the Minister for the Northern Territory, and  Mr Sinclair-  said that market prices were improving and that Australia would have greater export quotas in the traditional market areas.  Mr Sinclair  said: 
Prices in the United States for Australian meat have fallen back in recent weeks. It is expected to be a very temporary dip, but even allowing for the dip our prices in the United States are still well above what they were a year ago. 
That little dip has turned into a big dipper for our meat producers. On 26 September 1975 there appeared in the  Mercury  the following headline: Call by Sinclair- Action Needed to Save Huon'. The article read as follows: 
Australia's agricultural marketing position  overeas  would improve dramatically under a Liberal-Country Party Government,'  Mr Sinclair  said in Hobart. 'We could find better government to government accord than Labor has done in the agricultural marketing areas. ' 
They are copious notes. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  I will take the honourable senator's word that he is reading from copious notes. 
I am quoting from a newspaper article. The last thing I want to do is to misquote Ministers and spokesmen in the Government Parties. The truth of the matter is that  Mr Sinclair  has stated that this Government can do better on a government-to-government basis than the Labor Government did in the agricultural marketing areas. The truth of the matter is that Messrs Lynch, Fraser, Sinclair and Anthony are men of straw when it comes to their intentions on rural industries. They are more concerned with expanding our mining industries than in maintaining our rural industries. 
It is apparent that Australia is out on a limb. Let us examine further what has been said by Government spokesmen, even over the past few days since this crisis has broken upon us. What has actually happened?  Mr Fraser  said- I could quote what he said if the Senate feels so badly about my referring to notes- that he would write a letter to  Mr Ford  seeking assurances that Australia would be treated fairly and equitably in the renegotiations. He did not say that as a result of those renegotiations less beef would be exported to the United States. If there is a renegotiation it will result in a lower level of exports. What was the contribution of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to this great debate? It can be summed up in his Press release dated 10 October 1976. He said: 
I have been in constant touch with the Prime Minister in Jakarta on these developments. 
Big deal ! That is the contribution of the Leader of the National Country Party to this problem. He had been in touch with the Prime Minister in Jakarta. That is a wonderful contribution to this grave problem with which his Party and the Government have been concerned for a considerable number of years.  Mr Sinclair's  contribution has been to describe the American decision in the following terms: 
It is a blatant political action and against the spirit if not the letter of GATT. 
Does  Mr Sinclair  believe that any of the decisions made by the American  President  are not political decisions? Is he suggesting that when the  President  of the United States or the Prime Minister of Australia makes a decision it is not a political decision? What shower did the Minister for Primary Industry come down in? 
How much worse off would we have been if  Mr Fraser  's advice had been followed?  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you were a member of the Senate when a joint parliamentary committee conducted an inquiry into meat prices in 1973. On the television program  Federal File  on 12 August 1 973 the Prime Minister said: 
We can find markets in Australia and overseas for beef herds of at least 40 million. 
This was said at a time when our cattle herds were 28 million. In the succeeding 3 years the number has reached 33 million. What sort of fatuous advice would that be to cattle producers? They were adviced that they should increase the size of the herds in totality from 28 million to 40 million. How many more thousands of beef producers would now be absolutely and completely stony-broke and bankrupt if the advice of the present Prime Minister when he was Opposition spokesman on primary industry- God forbidhad been followed? The great tragedy is that many people in rural pursuits did follow the advice of the Country Party at that time and in their diversification moved out of other areas of rural production and into beef. They are the ones who bought in at the top price and who have been living in difficult economic times ever since. We only have to refer to the Liberal-Country Party reconstruction scheme which supplied funds to encourage producers to switch to beef production. In the 1972-73 Budget the conservative Government allocated $5 lm for rural reconstruction. So many people had their fingers burnt when they followed erroneous advice and moved into beef. I recall that dissenting reports were presented by members of the Government Parties who sat on the joint committee inquiring into meat prices. They disagreed with the findings of the committee and in fact sought to bring about an increase in the number of people in the beef industry in accordance with the advice being given by  Mr Fraser. 
If honourable senators still have any illusions about the sabre-rattling Minister for Primary Industry, let us look at some more of his inanities last year only one month before he became a Minister in the infamous Fraser Government. He is quoted in the  Canberra Times  of 1 1 October, just one month before the famous coup, as saying: 
The death warrant of the Australian beef industry will be signed unless the Government takes action to assist the beef industry. 
He said this when addressing the Canberra branch of the Graziers Association in Queanbeyan. He went on: 
Whether the resources be labour, capital or natural resources, the employment of resources within the rural sector is rapidly declining because of the disincentive approach of the Labor Government towards the rural sector. 
After the coup, in a program called  The Policymakers,  in which he was featured with  Dr Patterson  on 25 November 1975, he said: 
It is really quite tragic that the beef industry has been left to languish for so long while the IAC reported, and then for so long after it reported to the Government to adopt the recommendations of the IAC. 
At least the Labor Government set up a committee to examine the problems facing the beef industry. But as you well know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  because you are a representative of the rural communities, the problems of beef production have been with us for many years. The Labor Government acted correctly in commissioning a report on the beef industry. The coalition government's response was to move slowly. It certainly abolished the export levy but imposed another levy which raked in as much revenue as the old one. It cut back on rural reconstruction funds. In  The Policymakers  program  Mr Sinclair  also said: 
I am sure that it is just not a matter of the collapse of the beef export market overseas. I believe a more positive marketing effort by the Government at a political level earlier could have helped to correct the position in Japan and the EEC. 
But the years in which negotiations went on for the establishment of the European Economic Community were barren of action by the conservatives in this area. There were no comments or action by the conservative parties. They made little or no effort and did not succeed in getting Australian access to the EEC markets. So one can only say that a government that claims to represent rural producers and the best interests of the beef industry has failed to take any initiative in the 1 1 months it has been in office to answer the criticism day in and day out which is on the record in respect of the problems that beset the meat industry in 1975.  Mr Fraser  and more particularly  Mr Sinclair  have now had the gall to suggest that Australian beef exports have flooded the Canadian market. Surely this is a free market economy and that is what the Government stands for. He suggests that our exports to Canada, where no restraint is practised, has had a chain reaction that has affected access to the American market. We all know of the problems in respect of Puerto Rico. Yet the Government has done little to give leadership in tackling the problems besetting the beef industry. It is in the light of all these experiences and the failure of the Government to put forward any rational plan to stabilise the beef industry that the Opposition has put before the Senate a motion for the purpose of at least having some debate about the grievous plight besetting so many thousands of Australian citizens involved in beef production. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has a proper environment impact inquiry been held into the major woodchip industry at Coffs Harbour? If not, is it proposed to hold such an inquiry? Has the Federal Department of the Environment, Housing and Community Development been involved in any environmental impact assessment of this proposal to date? Further, has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report on page 3 of today's  Sydney Morning Herald  in an article entitled Woodchips Showdown Today' that the Federal Government is withdrawing from the field of environmental impact inquiries? When was this decision made? When will it take effect? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, we have heard a very fascinating contribution by Government senators, particularly  Senator Maunsell  who of course regaled us again with more of his meanderings for which he has become notorious in this place. It is interesting to note that after all the years that he has been a member of the Senate he has discovered local government. Hitherto he has been silent about the problems facing local government in Australia. Now he tells us that he and his Party believe in the rights of the 3 arms of government to work together in a cooperative way to develop the public sector. One finds that hard to believe, having regard to the general thrust of the Government parties, when they have done everything within their power during the last three or four years- and even in the year in which they have been in office again- to denigrate the activities of the public sector. They have suggested that the only way forward for Australia is to have unbridled growth in the private sector and that there ought to be a downturn, a reduction, a restriction in government expenditure. 
Even as late as today the Treasurer, the  Hon.  Phillip Lynch, in a release has called on local government authorities to show restraint in raising rates and other charges in 1976-77. In the face of the Government's acknowledgment in its own Budget Papers that there will be an increase of at least 12 per cent in the rate of inflation in the ensuing year the Treasurer is suggesting that, because local government receives more than 90 per cent of its revenue from a tax on property, there should be restraint in raising rates and charges and, as a consequence, in engaging in activities. If that ill-chosen advice given by the Federal Treasurer is carried into effect by local government we will have an even worse unemployment position in Australia, particularly in country areas, because in so many of our rural communities the local authority is the backbone of the activity within that region. It is the largest employer and it is the sector activity that generates some commercial and other business function within that region. 
One would imagine that the previous  speaker, Senator Maunsell,  was speaking against the Bill when he was suggesting that one should spend only what one raises, and that if one gave money away, as the Labor Government did during the last 3 years, it was wasting people's money. He wants to move around Australia and talk to the people. As one of my colleagues,  Senator Sibraa,  said in his contribution, the activity in the area improvement programs and the Australian Assistance Plan came from people in the local regions when they made requests to the Australian Government for the expenditure of public funds. It was not wasting money; it was in fact giving power to the local communities to make recommendations to the national government for the allocation of sufficient funds to carry out a much better program of local works or to provide local facilities or amenities in a particular region. We make no apologies for that. This Bill happens to be a very poor substitute for those innovative programs that we introduced in the very brief period of 3 years that we were in government. Suddenly there is a day of awakening, and in 1 975-76 the conservative parties have discovered local government. 
I can remember in 1949 when local government in New South Wales- the premier State, and I am not saying that in any parochial senseinitiated a program for Commonwealth involvement in local government financing. It took local government in New South Wales the best part of a decade to get that message accepted by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations because the worst problems in local government funding were to be found in New South Wales. Because of that there was a need for some pioneering work. It took a long time to get an understanding about that matter because the depth of local government problems and the insufficiency of funding in some of the other States had not quite reached the degree that it had in New South Wales. On every occasion in the succeeding years when we obtained that understanding in the Australian Council of Local Government Associations we came to Canberra to see  Sir Robert  Menzies or one of his Treasurers. It would take too long to recall to the minds of honourable senators the various Treasurers that we had in that period, particularly in the early 1970s when they were being knocked down and replaced like ninepins. 
On each occasion we received no consideration from the conservative parties. On the last occasion when the Australian Council of Local Government Associations came to Canberra in the early part of 1972 to see  Mr McMahon  when he was Prime Minister, he refused to give any consideration to the important principle that local government should receive permanent funding from the Australian Government. We do not oppose the Bill because any steps which are taken to further this principle or any legislation which establishes a liaison between the arms of government should be supported. But surely it is a matter of too little too late. That is the position we have reached. There is no doubt that Government senators get locked away in a little room, they listen to some of the rhetoric and hate campaigns from a couple of speakers and they come into this chamber and repeat them  ad nauseum,  without having any understanding of the drastic situation that exists in local government throughout Australia as a direct result of the neglect in the years from 1 949 when the conservatives ruled this country. 
Let us have a look at the amount of indebtedness of the 3 arms of government. I should indicate that those figures were supplied by the Bureau of Statistics to the Legislative Research Section of our Parliamentary Library, so I think that one is entitled to draw the conclusion that they represent the real position. We ought to be reminded that this is a direct result of the years of neglect by conservative governments in Canberra. For example, in 1949 when the Chifley Government was defeated and we began those long years, almost the middle ages of Australian politics, the Australian Government in terms of indebtedness owed 61 per cent of the national debt. State governments owed 36.45 per cent of the national debt, and local government owed 2.53 per cent of the national debt. That was the year in which local government in New South Wales began a campaign to get recognition of the fact that there should be financial funding from the Commonwealth to the States. The last figures that I have been able to obtain to my satisfaction relate to 1973 when the Labor Party came into government. This must surely be taken into consideration when we are talking about funding or establishing an organisation which will consider the relationship between the 3 arms cf government. In that year the Commonwealth's share of the national debt had dropped to 23.65 per cent. State government indebtedness had risen to 64.33 per cent of the national debt which is quite contrary to what  Senator Carrick  has regaled us with in this place over the last couple of years. What happened was that the Commonwealth came out on the right side of the ledger and transferred its indebtedness and repayment problems to the States. What happened to local government authorities? In terms of the total national debt State government indebtedness almost doubled and Commonwealth indebtedness dropped from 6 1 per cent to 23 per cent. Yet local government indebtedness rose from 2.35 to 12.03 per cent. So when  Senator Maunsell  talks about the raising of money he should have some regard for the financial relationships that exist between the various arms of government. 
We can describe this piece of legislation which is designed to set up the Advisory Council as a hazy piece of legislation and in terms of the problem that exists as a crazy piece of legislation because the States are in an unco-operative mood even before we start. One of the great problems that local government has had to contend with has been the attitude of the State governments to local government. Despite the fact that local government was in fact the first form of government in this country the States have over the years regarded it as part of its preserve and have resisted any change in the relationship just as the conservatives in the national parliament have resisted until now any attempt to bring about a more rational use of government powers and a more rational use of government funds 
This legislation is a step in the direction of the federalism which I suppose we can say is the brainchild of  Senator Carrick.  It is Carrickism at its worst because it sets up an advisory body with which one State Premier has already said he is not going to co-operate. I will not weary the Senate by referring to what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  has said in that respect. We know that  Sir Eric  Willis had misgivings about it and of course whatever Bjelke-Petersen has to say about Commonwealth Government legislation invariably has a little echo in the far west of Australia in  Sir Charles  Court. 
This legislation sets up a mere advisory council. Of course we will not oppose that because if we can get a situation in which local government can sit down with the States and the Commonwealth to talk about its problems we may get some enlightenment not only in the national arena but also in the States. I remind the Senate that when we raised the question at the Constitutional Convention, to which I was privileged to be a delegate, in Sydney in 1974 it was the very conservative representatives of the present Government as well as their counterparts in the States who were resisting any recognition of local government at all- firstly, at the Convention, and secondly, in any change in its relationship. So I suggest that the task is not so much to bring into legislative form this Advisory Council as in fact the ways to struggle for conviction within the parties opposite. I do not think that maverick of Australian politics, Bjelke-Petersen, is just a maverick on this issue without support from other sections of the Liberal Party and Country 
Party or whatever new name it is called- the National Country Party. 
We have this piece of legislation to set up an advisory council that has no charter and no powers. There is no suggestion that its deliberations, debates of discussions will be a part of public documentation, nor do we have any clearcut guidelines as to the way in which local government can get onto the agenda of the Council the sort of new deal that it is seeking. If we are to have this Council as a very poor substitute for the very important innovations which were part of Labor's 3 years in office; if it is to be regarded as just a talking house as in fact the Parliament itself is, in which senators do not listen or in any way try to comprehend the other point of view; if we are going to have this Council with our iconoclastic positions and not be prepared to be flexible, as so often we see amongst the conservative representatives, then there is not much hope for progress to be made in the area of really recognising the position of local government indebtedness. Many local government authorities in this country are moving into this area of indebtedness and this is what makes the statements by  Mr Lynch  and by  Mr Fraser  so much hogwash. Something like 30 per cent of their revenue is earmarked for repayments on past borrowings. So whatever they receive perforce of the allocation of funds which will come as a result of legislation to come before the Parliament when we establish the legislative means to pay money to local government through the States, it can be no more than a drop in the bucket. 
We have witnessed in response to questions and in debates in this place  Senator Carrick  on his hobbyhorse against centralism wherever he goes. I am sure he dreams about it. I am sure he writes down little words about centralism in his pad before he goes to sleep because it has become an obsession with him. At a conference on 2 May in the Lower Town Hall in Sydney he hopped on to the hobbyhorse again about Whitlamism and centralism, ignoring the fact that the whole thrust of our policy over the last 3 years was a devolution of power, ignoring that our policy was to invite local communities to participate, to try to encourage, particularly in the interest of economies of scale, some amalgamation of local government in areas where it was absolutely essential in order that it survive, and carry out its proper functions. 
We have heard  Senator Carrick  lambast the Whitlam Government for reducing, as he says, the amount of money that was made available to the State governments in the 1975 Budget. He ignores the fact that his own Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in documents circulated at the Premiers Conference in June of this year pointed to the fact that in the first Whitlam Government Budget payments to the States went up by 20 per cent; payments in the following year went up by 50 per cent and in the final Labor Budget of 1975-76 payments to the States went up some 30 per cent. Yet if honourable senators were to examine the debates and replies to questions in this place by  Senator Carrick  they would believe that we were involved in a campaign to impoverish the States so far as Commonwealth funding is concerned. The Minister is on record time and time again in response to questions and in debate- and in fact so is  Mr Lynch  in his statement yesterday- repeating the hoary lie that more money is being made available to local government. Certainly this is so in direct grants, but in terms of actual money available to local government the last Budget represents a reduction in money paid to local government. If any honourable senator has any doubt about this I refer him to the President's report presented at the last Local Government Association of New South Wales conference held at Tamworth last Monday week. It was presented by Alderman Greg Percival, O.B.E. I should like to read into the record what Alderman Percival had to say so that we can nail this misstatement which has been so often presented to the Parliament by  Senator Carrick  and by other honourable senators opposite. In his general report Alderman Percival deals with the question of local government finance. He states: 
I doubt if there will ever be any issue which will assume greater importance or prominence to Local Government than the cost of providing the services the people want, and the means of raising the money for it. 
At the present time, demand from residents and ratepayers for Council services appears to be higher than ever before. Not only does the community want all the traditional services supplied at ever improving standards, but demands for altogether new types of services and assistance abound. 
This is contrary to what  Mr Lynch  and  Mr Fraser  are saying. I do not think that Alderman Percival would be upset if I were to say that it is my general belief that he supports this Government politically. 
He is a colleague of mine. I am only mentioning his political views to indicate that he is one of those who subscribes to the general philosophical position of the Government. He states further: 
The fact that Local Government is now about to share in the personal income tax revenue of the Commonwealth Government seems to be creating even greater expectations on the part of the people. This situation appears to be encouraged, unintentionally or not, by some politicians - 
It has got to be Liberal and National Country Party politicians-  who are pointing to the fact that local government is at least sharing in income tax. 
Alderman Percival states further: 
It is therefore essential that the hard facts of financing Local Government be continuously placed baldly before everyone concerned. There can be no doubt that the decision of the Commonwealth Government to grant Local Government a fixed share of income is an historic one and one of major benefit to Local Government. 
Of course, this is why we support this legislation. It will provide a means of expanding on the needs of local government. He continues: 
The benefit however will probably be more clearly seen in future years, when the level of Local Government participation is rather higher than the present 1.5 per cent. 
I understand that is what is contemplated by the Government- 
The principal, as I have said, is enormously important; but the actual amount of additional money is simply not enough to bring about all the changes we would want, and to satisfy the high expectations of everyone in the community. 
He goes on to break down the allocation of funds. This, I hope, will satisfy honourable senators about the statements that  Senator Carrick  has constantly repeated in this place. Alderman Percival, referring to New South Wales, states: 
In 1976-77 we will receive $5 1.3m as our entitlement under revenue sharing. This very considerable increase, however, is almost totally eaten away by the reductions in other programs. The abolition of the RED scheme means a loss of $42. 8m, and the abolition or reduction of a range of other programs such as Area Improvement, National Estates, and so on, mean that the net effect of revenue sharing will be particularly uneven between Councils, and nowhere will it represent a sufficiently large increase to allow Councils to do all they would wish . . . 
I would, however, be failing in my duty if I did not correct the impression sometimes being given that Local Government in hard financial terms is significantly better off. 
When we have comments such as those from the State which pioneered the principle of revenue sharing between the Commonwealth, States and local government, I think we are entitled to draw the attention of the Senate to the unbalanced position that we have. In case it is suggested that Alderman Percival is speaking out of turn or is representing a more radical point of view than local government generally, I should like to quote from the statement issued on the Budget by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. It is an attachment to the Association's General Circular No. 2 which was issued only a few short weeks ago dealing with the Budget. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations is made up of some of those from the smaller States and has not been as active in this campaign of federal funding as perhaps it was in New South Wales and, to some extent, in Queensland at various stages where one of the significant Queensland figures in local government has joined forces with New South Wales to get support for this general principle. In part, the statement reads:   it is obvious that the provision of $35. 770m for other payments through States will not match last year, even allowing for the discontinuance of employment grants and the Area Improvements Program of which $29.885m was provided for local government last year. There is in fact a short fall in this section (after deducting the sum of  $29.885m) of $l6.274m  . . . 
To me, however, the significant thing is that the total funds proposed to be made available to local government this year as set out in . . . paragraph 7.1 - 
I will not quote from that paragraph-  has declined from $274.255m to $195.263m-or a decrease of 28.8 per cent . . . The overall reduction, I believe, must have a serious effect on local government available funds this financial year unless there is a substantial increase in allocations from State funds. 
We know, of course, that that is not likely to happen. The State Budgets have come and gone and the States have exercised a policy of not increasing their charges and restricting expenditure, having regard to the general strategy of the Australian Government. What is required in these circumstances, of course, is more than talk; is more than an advisory committee; is more than the presentation of this legislation. We require the emancipation of local government.  Senator Maunsell  has suggested that local government should be part of the 3 tiers of government if it is to be genuinely regarded as carrying out a proper role. As  Mr Justice  Else Mitchell has suggested, local government, because of its very nature and character, is the only arm of goverment that is able to improve the local environment. Because of its closeness to the people and because of the range of services that it provides, it is the only arm of government that can in fact make an appreciable impact upon local conditions. Whatever we may do in Canberra- irrespective of which government is in power either in Canberra or in the States- when it finally comes down to the local environment, it is the local council that makes or breaks the area which it represents. 
This legislation which sets up an advisory body ignores the whole historical development of local government; ignores the selfish attitude that States adopt to local government; ignores the reticence of States to become involved or to financially provide more funds to local government from State funds. This legislation can be described perhaps as being something of a fiasco even though we can concede that if we can get all the States together; if the Australian Government is going to play a pioneering role; if it is really going to pick up the tab; if it is really going to fight for the principles which the Labor Government fought for in the 3 years when it was in office, it may serve a useful purpose. After all, it was not until the 1973-74 Budget that local government received any recognition from the Australian Government. Hitherto, it was a hands off policy; hitherto there was no interest in the problems of local government. Hitherto the Australian Government had been concerned with bringing millions of people to our country but it made no financial allocations to provide them with goods and services. This piece of legislation should get local government opened up for public debate and not kept in some back room, but I can see nothing in it that opens up the possibility of matters being publicly debated at every meeting, of our being able to take on the backward attitude of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  of local government being able to see him in his true light, of local government being able to see other States in their true light, and of the Australian Government being prepared to make available substantially more funds so that the services which people are correctly demanding within their local region shall be provided. If that could happen the legislation would have some particular merit. 
This legislation ignores the experiences of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I do not have to remind  Senator Carrick  of the remarks that were made by the  Chairman  of that Commission at the seminar which  Senator Carrick  attended when he drew attention to the fact that the Grants Commission, which was responsible under the Labor Government for the allocation of Federal funds to local government, applied the principle upon which the Grants Commission had operated for the past 40 years, that is, the principle of needs. This piece of legislation gives only part recognition to the needs principle in establishing the Advisory Council. It gives as much emphasis, as I read the legislation, to per capita grants and less to the needs concept. Yet one must surely recognise that, if there has been any validity in the way in which the Grants Commission has operated on a State basis over the last 40 years, the same principle ought to be applied to local government. 
Surely honourable senators would not disagree with me when I say that there is a great divergence, a great difference, between local government areas within a region and from State to State. Therefore the needs concept ought to be the barometer upon which all financial decisions are made. In any case we already have the framework; we already have the Loan Council, the Premiers Conference and the Inter-State Commission. These 3 bodies are available to provide us with the means to reach an end. They have been by-passed. After all one of the pieces of legislation which was passed by the Senate was to take to referendum the right of local government to be represented at Loan Council meetings. It would be a real expression of federalism, if ever there could be one, to have local government officially represented at the Loan Council. What did honourable senators opposite do? They stalked around the country. They panicked the Australian people and said: 'Do not support that recognition of local government being part of the Loan Council arrangement; do not allow the Australian Government to give direct grants to local government'. 
How hypocritical honourable senators opposite have become in less than 2 years when  Senator Carrick  proposes this Council based on an American experience. There is a complete difference historically in the way in which government has operated in America. There is no empirical evidence or any evidence at all that the American experience can be applied to Australia or that the American experience has proved to be a success. Heavens, America would be one of the last countries that we should try to ape in terms of the way in which constitutional government operates. One only needs to think of the social problems and the infrastructure problems in the United States of America, least of all refer to them, to appreciate the grave difficulties that exist in that country. I suggest that  Senator Carrick  plucked out of the air the idea that we should model our inter-government council on the American experience. God forbid that we should try to follow that path. There are already tremendous conflicts between the central Government and the State governments in America. Local government has an entirely different role and has access to entirely different forms of revenue than we have in this country. In point of fact, substantially more of the revenue of local government comes from local taxes than comes from the property tax itself. 
One can only wonder why we did not have the support of the conservative parties in the referendum in 1974. One can understand why honourable senators on my side of the chamber are referring to the intemperate remarks, the obstinancy and the destructionism of  Mr BjelkePetersen  at the Premiers Conference when he objected to having any equity for local government. I applaud the Government for going on regardless of that fact. Unless we have the cooperation of State governments and unless honourable senators opposite win the battle on their side of politics this will be even more a talking House than we might imagine. Of course the Inter-State Commission is provided for in the Constitution. Legislation to set up the Commission has been passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate. Heaven only knows how difficult it was to get any legislation of the Labor Government through the Senate but, lo and behold, we did. 
That legislation has not even been proclaimed. Yet there was the apparatus, there was the legislative form, there was the means to establish - 
It was stillborn just as federalism of the type that  Senator Carrick  espouses will be still born. Even his own Party does not believe it. We have listened to the weak and inane speeches of the Opposition on this piece of legislation. Honourable senators opposite could speak for no longer than 5 or 10 minutes. A lot of hogwash and hotpotch was poured out. In fact,  Senator Maunsell  presented an argument why funds should not be made available to local government whatsoever. 

 Senator Martin spoke about the problems of the rural producers and the problems of local government funding in rural areas. Of course this is a major problem. How does she expect this piece of legislation, having regard to the subjective problems that we have with the State governments, to accommodate in any way the very dire consequences of local government rating in rural areas? In some cases people have not enough money to buy food least of all to pay money to the local authority. In New South Wales- I imagine the same applies in other States- rates have to be 7 years overdue before the council can do very much to collect them. If the present rating system of local government continues and the problems of collecting rates in rural areas continues for two or three years local government will be even more bankrupt than it is now. I am glad that  Senator Martin  recognises this problem. I hope she heard what I said was stated by the  President  of the Local Government Association of New South Wales. I hope she heard what I said about the  President  of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. They pointed out that in actual money terms less money is made available in the Liberal-National Country Party Budget for local government than in the previous year. That is not my statement. That is in the official records of the local government bodies themselves. 
It is interesting, when we hear so much of this rhetoric about the Whitlam Government, to recall that in our first Budget we made available to local government in urban areas an amount of $2.50 per head and $6.50 per head to local government in rural areas. In the following year we raised the sum provided to local government in urban areas to $3 a head. What happened to this amount in relation to rural local government? It rose to $ 1 0 per head. 
As  Senator Douglas  McClelland correctly points out, this was on the recommendation of the Grants Commission in respect of which the Government is prepared to wipe the slate clean. The Government is prepared to negate the experience of the Grants Commission. Yet even less money will be available under the Government's proposals. One can only wonder what is the purpose of this legislation. Is it a lip service piece of legislation? Is it a piece of legislation that is designed just to put on the record that the Government stands for a federalism policy which nobody can understand and about which it has some serious misgivings? Are we to have a piece of legislation which will be stillborn? Are we to have a piece of legislation that, in fact, will set up just another bureaucracy. At the moment there are the CommonwealthState Grants Commission, the State Grants Commission and the Federal Government. So, there are 8 bureaucracies involved in this area as well as the States and the thousand or so local government bodies in Australia. We will add another bureaucratic organisation through this legislation. 
I would hope that the Government would be trying to move in the direction of getting local government out of its subordinate position and that it would be moving in the direction in which the Labor Government sought to take local government. In legislation enacted during the term of office of the former Labor Government, which for the first time allocated funds for local government, the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, Tom Uren, pointed out that local government must be upgraded. He pointed out also that for almost 100 years local government had remained in a fairly static position despite the great technological changes and the greater demands that were made upon local government. Local government, which had been created originally for the very simple purpose of providing roads and drains and the removal of garbage, had taken on a whole new connotation. Now local government in some progressive local government areas spends approximately 40 per cent of its revenue on providing community facilities. Yet it has taken until 1973- almost 30 years after the War- for a government- and it was a Labor Government- to say for those reasons that local government was entitled to financial recognition and a place in revenuesharing. 
The question of what will happen if the Commonwealth is able to maintain and perhaps even increase its revenue-sharing has been put to me by many local government representatives. What guarantees do we have that the States will maintain their existing grants to local government? Do we have an agreement with the States or do we have any assurance from the States that they will maintain their existing State grants to local government? Surely these are matters which are germane to the legislation. A condition for the establishment of this Council ought to be that the existing financial arrangements between the States and local government will be maintained. Unless that fundamental principle is accepted there can be only a downgrading of the services provided by local government. 
I doubt whether any Government senators have had an opportunity to read the comments of  Mr Justice  Else Mitchell at the seminar on intergovernment relations. It would do them good to read what he had to say. When he first became involved in this field some 30 years ago, in big cities like Sydney only half a dozen councils had municipal libraries. There were very few councils that had swimming pools or playing fields of the type that are necessary in a modern community. If those sorts of facilities are essential for the all round development of a communityand I believe they are- there ought not to be calls by Government speakers to the effect that restraint should be practised in these areas. I reject and my Party rejects completely and unequivocally the proposition that the spending of money on improving a road, providing a library service, or opening up a new beach, a women 's rest centre or a baby health centre is the reason why we have inflation. It is an ill chosen and inadequate explanation for the problems of inflation. When one reads what  Senator Carrick  said at this seminar one would think that the Labor Party invented inflation. 
Heavens above! If the honourable senator read the figures he would know that the greatest rate of inflation that ever occurred in this country was in 1951, 2 years after a Liberal-Country Party Government came to power. This occurred at about the time when the honourable senator was fighting for an important principle. The figures in the Parliamentary Library will prove this assertion. If the honourable senator obtains these figures from the Library he will find that they will show that the highest rate of inflation ever to hit this country occurred in 1951. Yet one would imagine that such an element as inflation did not occur until the Whitlam Government came to office in 1972. 
As an example, I refer to my rates. When I bought my block of land just before the last World War ended my rates were 35 shillings or $3.50 in the modern currency. When I came into this place at the time when the Labor Government was elected in 1972, my rates for that same piece of land had increased to $210. That increase occurred in the period in which a Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, the period in which that Government held the financial reins of this country. There is no point in trying to place some part of the blame for that increase on the high cost of land and services in a period in which the Liberal-Country Party Government presided over an increaseand correctly so- in the population of our country, at the same time giving neither the States nor local government any of the funds needed to provide necessary services. It is no wonder, therefore, that local government has considerable misgivings about the financial policies that are being pursued by this Government. 
Whilst not going on the public record as opposing the legislation, the Opposition sees its proposals as a means by which we can sit round a table and discuss the problems of local government. But that opportunity has, of course, already been given to local government and to the States at the Constitutional Convention without much success or much progress. In these circumstances it is no wonder that no progress has been made. A conference described as Friends or Enemies- Intergovernment Relationships, arranged by the Local Government Study Group, was held in Sydney on 2 May 1 976 in the lower Sydney Town Hall, lt is interesting to look at some of the comments made by representatives of local government.  Mr Miles,  who is regarded as one of the major figures in local government in Australia, made the following statement: 
The role of the Minister for Local Government, because of the nature of the local Government Act- 
Such an Act, of course, exists in each State:  is a crucial one. There is for example one Minister for Local Government hi Australia who constantly talks about 'my councils' - 
Obviously that Minister is referring to them in that way because he thinks he owns them- and the need for him to exercise benevolent paternal control. There is another Minister for Local Government who quite recently reminded us that local government owed its existence to the Local Government Act which could just as easily be repealed by the State Government- as if we did not know already. I am happy to say that neither of these gentlemen are from New South Wales. 
Honourable senators can guess or toss a coin and be pretty sure of the Premiers of the States from which Ministers who made those sorts of maverick statements would come. I am prepared to bet that it was not  Mr Hamer  of Victoria,  Mr Dunstan  of South Australia or  Mr Neilson  of Tasmania. Certainly if we have New South Wales off the hook, we do not have to point the finger very far to see from which States those Ministers who made such maverick statements would come. Who would place the whole future of this legislation in jeopardy? Who would make a mockery of this legislation? One of the avenues available to us to raise matters is a Bill such as this. When debating such Bills in this place we should try to draw the attention of the Government to the difficulties that it has. We do not have those difficulties. We had a plan which we put before the people in 1969, 1972 and 1974. It was for a referendum as well as for legislation to recognise the role of local government, to give it a place in the trinity of government and to give its position in the 3 arms of government a firm status. We recognised that we had to take local government out of its existing base. There are 229 local government bodies in New South Wales. In the New South Wales Parliament the Liberal-Country Party, before it was defeated on 1 May, said that the number ought to be reduced to about 140. So when  Senator Carrick  goes off the deep end about boundaries, regionalism, centralism and other things he should remember that his Party in New South Wales was prepared to settle for something like 80 fewer local government bodies in that State. Because the matter was a hot potato, because it meant rationalisation of local government boundaries in New South Wales and because of the narrow parochialism of the Country Party in New South Wales, that Government put the matter under double wraps. It never carried forward the Boundaries Commission report which sought to bring about some effective rationalisation. 
When we get to this question of local government we never hear anything about the economies of scale about which we hear so much when we talk about the private sector. Honourable senators opposite say that one is entitled to get economies of scale and to reduce the unit cost of production and that the Australian Government must become more efficient. Whenever a Labor Party spokesman seeks to bring about those desirable objectives to which even the conservative parties give some recognition- words just fail me- we see the inability of the Government parties to have any real cognition of the sort of problem with which we are faced here and of the necessity to bring about a restructuring of local government. If we had brought about that restructuring in the form of regionalism, that would have been a step forward. One day that will come. It will be delayed to the extent that the conservatives in this country hark back to parochial attitudes and refuse to move with the times and refuse to allow a proper rationalisation of local government so that it can carry out its effective functioning. A small body lacking resources, lacking funds and lacking trained staff cannot carry out its proper responsibilities in respect of the planning of new towns and cities. It cannot do its proper job. 
If by the establishment of this legislation we widen horizons and visions, if we create an understanding of what is needed in the third arm of government, if we get more tolerant and flexible attitudes out of State governments, we will have achieved something. We support this very small token, which goes under the misnomer of federalism, which establishes a consultative organisation- the Advisory Council- a body that will sit around and talk. Maybe in that process, maybe in that melting pot, some progress can be made in the evolution of man's thinking. It is long overdue in the conservative parties. We came to that conclusion almost a decade ago. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the Senate of the criteria which must be satisfied before a person is considered suitable for selection and is permitted to take up an appointment to a public statutory body? Are appointees required to make full disclosures of any business interests or directorships held prior to accepting an appointment? If so, did the present  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, disclose prior to accepting the chairmanship of the independent and publicly owned Australian Broadcasting Commission his directorship of over 9 companies, Australian and multinational, including the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Haemetite Pty Ltd, a company which is chaired by  Sir Ian  McLennan and which administers the BHP Staff Fund and which has 4 directors who also sit on the Board of BHP? Did he disclose the substantial interest of Haematite Pty Ltd in 2 companies- Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd and News Limited- both of which are reported to have major commercial television interests? 
-In respect of the report tabled by the Minister for Administrative Se vices  (Senator Withers)  on the Tobacco Industry Trust Account, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government been informed of the likelihood of a reduced quantity of Australian beef exports to Japan? Is the Minister able to say whether there have been any discussions between the Australian Government and the Japanese Government about the quotas for beef exports to Japan? If there have not been discussions, will the Government initiate negotiations so that the slack in the meat industry in Australia arising from the United States and Canadian restrictions will not be repeated in respect of exports to Japan? 
The Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill follows the statement put down in the Senate on 31 March 1976 by the late  Senator Greenwood.  In fact, the statement was one of his last contributions. On that occasion I was given the opportunity to say a few words about the legislation. We took the view then- I think subsequent events have shown this to be so- that it would do very little in terms of encouraging and stimulating the essential building industry which at that stage we were able to identify as being in a serious state of decline and difficulty. Figures given to us today in a report circulated to us show that the building industry still has not got out of the trough that it was in at that stage. Seven months after that statement was made in the Senate we find ourselves unable to be any more enthusiastic about this legislation than we were when  Senator Greenwood  made that statement about the Homes Savings Grant Bill. 
While there are certain aspects of the Bill to which the Opposition would not take major exception, there are some aspects of it which we think need to be restated because the stiategy behind the Government's bringing forward this legislation was designed, as was stated in the second reading speech, to make some improvement in the home building section of the construction industry in this country. The incentive provided in the legislation is a grant which is made available on the basis of $ 1 for every $3 saved in a form prescribed by the legislation. I think we must say that that places rather onerous conditions upon the applicant because that will give assistance only to a limited number of Australians. I do not think Government senators should feel happy about the very difficult conditions in which people generally find themselves, particularly so many young people, when they try to solve their accommodation problems. We have reached a stage in the capital cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne- perhaps to a lesser extent the other capitals- at which something like $50 is regarded as a generally acceptable rent for accommodation. That is a very heavy commitment for persons to have a roof over their head. 
The figures show quite conclusively that to qualify for the benefits of this scheme it will be necessary for persons to save between $26 and $40 a week. When we look at the basic economy and at the basic economics of people endeavouring to solve their accommodation problem today it is clear that we must take into consideration that something like two-thirds of the Australian work force is receiving less than the average weekly earnings which are about $ 160 a week. If one takes into consideration that to live in a dwelling- a flat or a home unit- today costs something like $50 a week, it stands to reason that if we place an additional burden on persons to save between $26 and $40 a week to quality for the benefits of this scheme a very limited number of people will be able to qualify because the scheme does not provide assistance for those most in need, which should be the basis upon which all government legislation should operate. The need concept should be the central feature of all government legislation. The legislation will do nothing to bring about the essential revival in the building industry. The Bill sets out that it will be 3 years from the date of the legislation being passed by the Parliament before anyone is able to qualify for the benefit. So we are talking about 1979. I do not know how many more builders will go bankrupt, how many more architects will draw social service benefits and how many more people will suffer a lack of accommodation while people seek to qualify for this benefit which does not have regard for the inability of most people to save. I am talking of the people most affected by inflation and the people most affected by the problems of housing in our country. 
Many organisations have concerned themselves with this problem of housing. I refer to the Priority Review Committee and the observations it made last year about funds for housing and funds for the States to provide public housing. It made no recommendation about the reintroduction of a home savings grant scheme. It pointed out that there were a lot of difficulties and flaws in any home savings grant scheme which had operated under previous conservative governments prior to 1972. The Australian Institute of Urban Studies has reported from time to time on these problems and has drawn attention to the fact that home savings grants are regressive and operate quite contrary to the principles of need. The sort of people who will be able to qualify for this benefit will be people earning incomes above average. Therefore this legislation can be regarded as a grant from the poor to the rich, when we take into account what has been said repeatedly by this Government about income tax and about the need to have income tax and taxes generally put in the hands and the pockets of the people in the community generally. 
The facts also point to the building industry being unable to gain any immediate benefit from the legislation in order to relieve unemployment in the industry. Probably it would be true to say that today the building industry has the greatest percentage of unemployment in the whole economy. Yet the Government still has a dogmatic, rather defiant attitude to the economy. It does not accept the fact that it will be government activity and government funds that will stimulate the private or public sector of the building industry. It is wedded to the view that Budget deficits are anathema; that the most important thing is to reduce government spending. It will be 3 years before the Government will be committed to any substantial funding under this legislation. If one examines the Government's Budget approach to housing, it is clear that it is prepared to reduce the amount of money that it makes available to the States for public housing. Therefore there can be no relief for the people about whom I have been talking- those people who for obvious reasons will not be able to qualify for a benefit under this legislation. 
In accordance with the philosophy that seems to dominate its thinking, the Government has reduced the amount of Federal assistance not only to the building industry but also to the State governments in respect of the provision of land and community facilities upon the land. One cannot look at the housing question with any degree of confidence if governments, particularly national governments, do not see their responsibility to do something about the price of land. One only has to look at the tremendous inflationary cost of land when this Government was in office from 1950 to 1972 to appreciate that  pro rata  average weekly earnings and the price of land grew out of all proportion; that the cost of land increased three or four times more than average weekly earnings increased in that period. The cost of land is an integral part of the accommodation problem. 
The maximum grant that the Government proposes to make available is $2,000, on the basis of $ 1 for each $3 saved. Again we have to draw attention to the problems of inflation that face the Western world. The $2,000 will be the same as the homes savings grants that was legislated for some years ago. Most of the money then went into the hands of those who speculate in land, particularly in the major cities, where there is an acute shortage of land and where the price of land is determined by the quantity on the market. It is clear that most of the grants we are now considering, which initially might be seen by some who qualify for the grants as being of benefit, will finish up as part of the inflated price of land in the pockets of those who because of their accumulated capital are able to accumulate land and sell it on a market that is to the detriment of the purchaser and in the interests of the vendor. Inflation will have the effect of eroding this gift. I think 'gift' is the way it has to be described. It will go to a certain select number of people whose income will enable them to save the substantial sum of money needed over a 3-year period. It has to be regarded as a gift, but that gift will be only superficial because it will finish up in the hands of those who will profit from the inflated price of land or the inflated price of the home people seek to purchase. What we are examining in the whole of the building industry is how State governments in particularLabor, Liberal and National Country Party- can deflect some of the scarce money available for the building industry .into the new home market and not into the second-hand home market, which has been the trend in recent times because of the general inflated costs of accommodation. 
We cannot be enthusiastic about the legislation. We say that it is not the way to tackle and solve the problem. It does not take into consideration the necessary reforms that are required in conveyancing legislation. It does not simplify conveyancing procedures or reduce the cost of conveyancing, which would be a tangible way to assist those who require accommodation. It does not recognise the tremendous problems of the costs of services that States and local government have to provide. It is a piecemeal and one-sided piece of legislation which we believe will have only a very minor effect upon the total problem of housing in this country. I think we are entitled to say that the housing policies of this Government are virtually non-existent and noneffective; that the cuts in government expenditure which have been a feature of the Budget this year worsen the problem; and that this legislation really does not contribute very much to assisting those who wish to become part of the home owning section of the Australian community. 
It is estimated that the scheme will cost something like $ 15m. The Government uses as one of its reasons for this legislation the argument that it cannot retain in its present form the home loan tax deduction scheme, which was a most effective way to give assistance to those who were in the unfortunate position of wanting accommodation. 
It gave them an opportunity to claim as a tax deduction the interest paid on the money they borrowed to provide themselves with a home. It was a much more effective way to assist potential and existing home owners. This legislation, which just puts into legislative form the statement that the late  Senator Greenwood  made earlier this year, will be a very minor contribution towards the alleviation of accommodation problems. Like its predecessor, the Bill will give little assistance to those most in need. When we recognise the costs of providing a home and recognise that the costs in the major cities today are in excess of $30,000 and $40,000, clearly the sort of money that is involved here- $ 15m and a maximum grant of $2000 after a 3-year intensive saving period- will make very little impact upon the very grave social problem of housing that exists in this country. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
It is a pleasure to follow the eloquent senior senator from Tasmania,  Senator Wright.  One can only wonder why he enjoys such a wide audience in the Senate this evening because when the Senate was discussing the very important initiative that the Tasmanian Premier had taken in respect of the state of the economy there were only 4 Government senators sitting in this place listening to that important debate. I do not know whether the Government Parties have introduced conscription to get their colleagues into the Senate or whether we have in fact been witnessing the swan song of  Senator Wright.  Nevertheless we are amused by the fact that there is such interest in the speech that he has made this evening, particularly as  Senator Wright  has drawn attention to the infamous impropriety of the conservative Parties just a year ago when we were dealing with Appropriation Bill (No. 2) in October 1975. Of course the honourable  senator  set out to try to convince the people of Australia and his colleagues that they were justified in taking the course of action that they took because they believed, or so they said- I am sure they did not believe it, although they tried to convince the Australian people they believed it- that Government expenditure at that time was of such moment, of such magnitude, that if the Senate passed Appropriation Bill (No. 2) which was before the Senate at that time it would be doomsday for Australia. 
It is very interesting to note that the Senate which a year ago procrastinated for some 8 weeks in relation to Appropriation Bill (No. 2), which was designed to vote the sum of $6,976m, has failed to do just that because of the attitude of the conservatives in this place, such as  Senator Wright,  who want to maintain the ability of the Senate to block Appropriation Bills. Yet when this particular Bill is designed to spend $7, 502m, an increase of $526m on the Bill which the Senate refused to deal with just a year ago. How inconsistent can honourable senators opposite be? They have the gall and the temerity to stand here and criticise a government which was properly elected, which had to face 3 elections in 3 years and which had to face obstinacy and obstruction by the conservatives who never accepted the view of the Australian people when it was made clear on 2 separate occasions and who then used every trick in the political book to bring about the defeat of a properly and constitutionally elected government. They have the audacity to suggest that that power of the Australian Senate ought to be maintained. 
They say that whatever we decide on this side of the House is a political decision, as though that was not a political decision to strike a very serious blow at parliamentary democracy in this country to create in the minds of a lot of people, after years of propaganda by those who might have had revolutionary concepts, a lack of faith in the parliamentary processes. That is precisely what honourable senators opposite did a year ago and that is precisely what this Government seeks to perpetuate in this place, according to  Senator Wright. 
It is interesting to realise that those of us who wanted  to discuss  the economic initiatives being taken by the Tasmanian Government were denied the right to do so because those who have had the numbers in this place over the last 4 years applied the gag to that debate. They will continue to try to deny the right of expression in the Parliament and to deny the Opposition the opportunity to move a motion and debate in this place. The Government has taken away the right of the Opposition to debate general business on Thursday afternoons, which time was invariably used by the conservatives when they had the numbers in this place during the 3 years when Labor was in Government and had the numbers in the House of Representatives. Honourable senators opposite suggest that we should not have the right to use the proper forms of this House on a Wednesday to debate a matter of urgency, although the dismissal of the Government last year involved the question of government finance and the state of the economy. Here we have an Appropriation Bill which involves the expenditure of $500m more than honourable senators opposite refused to consider just a year ago. The people of Australia are concerned about the state of the economy. The Labor Premiers of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania have taken the initiative and have tried to do something about the very serious plight of the Australian economy. 
Last year when the Australian Labor Party was in government honourable senators opposite, the newspapers and the conservatives right throughout Australia said that the fault in the economy was due to the activities of the Federal Government. Of course, they were able to convince the majority of the people for the time being that the state of the economy was the fault of the national Government.  Mr Fraser  did not take long to change his mind on that question. In July this year in a statement to the  Canberra Times  he said that the reason why there was so much unemployment in New South Wales was that the Wran Government was elected on 1 May. Less than 3 months after that election the Australian Prime Minister was not saying that a national government was responsible for unemployment but he was trying to lay the blame on the newly elected Labor Government in New South Wales which had not even met to put forward its legislative program.  Senator Rae  and  Senator Walters  made rather puny contributions to the debate today on the plan put forward by  Mr Neilson,  the Premier of Tasmania. The Opposition is not committed to that plan. It is not saying that it agrees with every one of the 15 points. But at least it shows some initiative. 
-It was an attempt, which is more than we are seeing from this Government which is still involved in rhetoric and making all sorts of ludicrous statements about the state of the Australian economy. What have  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  done? Every so often on a public platform they plead with the Australian people to buy. They say: 'Go into the market place and buy.'  Mr Fraser  says to the Australian people: 'Stop saving.' If we examine whether the Australian people are taking very much notice of the Government's advice and we look at what is happening in respect of retail sales- that is part of the economic strategy- we find that public expenditure is more this year than it was last year. The other arm of criticism that was levelled at the Labor Government was that the Australian people lacked confidence, that they would not spend in the market place and that they were putting their money into the savings banks. I do not need to remind honourable senators and the people of Australia that savings bank deposits are continuing to rise and, on the latest evidence available, retail sales are stagnant. According to the  Australian Financial Review,  consumers are sitting pat. 
It is very interesting to compare government spending in this Appropriation Bill and last year's Appropriation Bill. I would like to deal with one or two items and compare them with the items in the Appropriation Bill which honourable senators opposite, in an infamous way, hypocritically refused to deal with last year. For example, in 1975 the Labor Government voted $l02m for Aborigines. This year the Government is spending $8 lm. We voted $25 lm for Administrative Services and $232m was spent. This year the Government is spending $239m. For the Department of Defence we voted $ 1,801m; $ 1,202m was spent by the present Government which was in office for the greater proportion of that year. This year the Government is spending $2,036m. We allocated $440m for Foreign Affairs, and $4 1 lm was spent due to cutbacks in expenditure. This year the Government is spending $432m. So we can give no credence to honourable senators opposite when they say that they were entitled to take the action they took a year ago to cut back on public spending, because in the present Budget the Government is spending more than we spent and there does not appear to be any recovery in the Australian economy. 
Clearly the Government does not enjoy the confidence of any sections of business in Australia. Honourable senators opposite will have noted the statements which have been cited many times in this place by the officials of the Australian Chamber of Manufactures and the statements made by other authoritative employer groups about the state of the economy. Surely they have seen the statements put out by the Australian Industries Development Association, which is probably one of the most important groups concerned with the Australian economy. It has said that the 1976-77 Budget is the product of what has become known as the official view' of Australia's economic mess and how to get out of it. It has also said that the Budget will not achieve its particular objectives.  Mr Lynch  has said repeatedly in the national Parliament and elsewhere that an economic recovery is under way. I do not know whom the Government is trying to convince, but the fact is that there is no revival in the private sector of the economy. I would like to spend the remainder of the limited time available to me in talking about the state of the economy. I do not think there is any substance in the criticism of government spending which has been the basis upon which the Government has based its economic strategy. 
I turn now to the rural sector. One of the big issues of the Australian farm in the Budget, according to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 27 August, was a stall. It offered no pointer for the future of Australia's rural industry. It did not come to grips with the future of farm families deeply mired in asset-rich poverty. That article was published about the time this Government brought in its Budget. In an article that appeared about the same time the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in Canberra was predicting that farm incomes would drop by about 27 per cent. But what is the real position? According to the latest figures of the BAE- these have been published in the  Australian Financial Review  of 29 October 1976- real farm income is expected to decline by 36 per cent in 1976-77. In these circumstances what is this Government doing? It has certainly taken no initiatives in this Budget or in this Appropriation Bill to bring about any attempt at revival within that sector of the Australian economy. 
Surely those members of the National Country Party who are not asleep as a result of having a good dinner during the 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. break would agree with me that there is a very serious situation in the rural sector of the Australian economy, even for those industries which hitherto had had some prospects of remaining viable and prosperous in a period of over-production on the world scale. I am thinking of the grain industry because indications now are that there is to be a drop in the price of grains on the world scale which will seriously affect the Australian producer. We all know of the problems of the beef industry which we have talked about from time to time. One does not need to draw attention to the critical position in which so many thousands of dairy farmers, beef producers and fruit growers find themselves. 
So nowhere can this Government justify the horrendous action that it set in motion 1 8 months ago to bring about the defeat of the Government based on either government expenditure or the state of the economy. The state of the economy a year after Government supporters brought about the coup is considerably worse. It does not matter how much rhetoric is practised by  Mr Fraser, Mr Lynch, Mr Sinclair  or any other Government spokesmen about the state of the economy. The plain facts are that it is in a decline, that it is in a mess and that there are structural difficulties which are beyond the Government's power of comprehension or legislative actions to overcome. I have noticed that even  Senator Carrick  has become converted to an understanding of the serious structural problems that exist in primary and secondary industry in Australia. 
We know that the Industries Assistance Commission has been making all sorts of recommendations in respect of the rural sector, and I shall deal with the manufacturing sector later. In respect to the rural sector, what has the Government done about the reports of the IAC? It has sat on them for the whole period it has been in government. Rural incomes are declining. Yet the Prime Minister has mentioned in many speeches that he has made to various farmer groups around Australia the critical poverty that exists in our rural communities. Of course, we all know that  Mr Giles  carried out an inspection on behalf of the Government parties. He told the Government 3 months ago of the critical state of the rural economy. But what has happened? Absolutely nothing to set in train the sort of structural recommendations that have been made, whether they are right or wrong. The Parliament is never given the opportunity to debate these things. Least of all does the farming community or the community generally in Australia have an opportunity publicly to debate the very parlous state of so many sectors of agriculture. 
The basic strategy of this Government was to bring about tax indexation and on 1 July, if my memory serves me correctly, tax indexation became a fact. We applauded that there was some recognition of this by the Government. So in July, August and September the Government's tax indexation strategy was to put more dollars in the pockets of every wage and salary earner in this country. I am sure that no Government senator would challenge me that that was what the Government had in mind when it brought in tax indexation to take effect as from 1 July. If the Government strategy was to work in respect to the economy, if the purpose of that piece of regulation was to put money in pockets so that it could be spent in the market place, why is it not reflected in the market place? Why is not a consumer revival taking place? It is because there is a deep sickness in the Australian economy. This applies both in the primary sector and in the manufacturing sector. 
This Government came to power illegally and improperly for the purpose solely of maintaining its political base and getting some stimulation of the mining sector. I think it is about time we really called the National Country Party what it should be called- the National Mining Party. It has taken no initiatives in this Budget or in any other legislative form other than to continue the initiatives of the Labor Government to bring about any stimulation of the rural sector. Yet all the activities of the National CountrycumMining Party have been to develop the boom sector and that boom sector it believes to be the mining sector. It has ignored the important Jackson Committee report which refers to the fact that the Australian manufacturing industry is in an acute financial crisis, that unemployment is high. The report states that factories are running below capacity, that many farmers have borrowed to the hilt and that manufacturing problems are manifestations of the world economic crisis in which all countries including Australia are enmeshed. What are the initiatives that this Government proposes to take, even in respect of the manufacturing sector? When we look at the various sectors of the Australian economy, whether they be the rural or the manufacturing sectors, we see that there is no response to the rhetoric of this Government. 
I turn to the problems in the building industry, which for many years we have said represents the base upon which all economic activity ultimately revolves. I am staggered to read the contradictory reports about the state of the building industry in Australia. An article in the  National Times  of '23 October states: 
The building industry in Australia appears to be operating at a very low ebb, according to figures issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
On 20 August this year a comment was made by Michael Blendell, a journalist for the  Australian: 

 Mr Lynch dealt the ailing construction industry, already on the floor after a knock-out punch from the 1974 credit squeeze- another body blow on Tuesday. He ignored vociferous lobbying that the industry's situation was so parlous it merited special consideration. 
In an article on 22 October, which is only a week or so ago, the  Canberra Times  reported a statement by  Mr Powell,  the Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission, that slow-downs in the construction industry in Canberra during 1975-76 because of Government spending cuts had added direct costs to the activities of the NCDC. An article published in the Melbourne  Age  on 30 September about a survey conducted by John Jackson and AssociatesI am sure they were not put up to this by the Labor Party or anyone associated with the trade union movement- states: 
A grim picture of the building and construction industry is painted in a survey of projects started last month. 
The survey by John Jackson and Associates shows an 1 8.5 per cent drop in tendered contracts during August. These contracts were worth $92. 3m compared with SI 13.2m in the previous month. 
The value of non-tendered contracts fell by 29.8 per cent . . . 
The industry-already one of the hardest hit by the recessionsuffered further with a drop of more than 20 per cent in the value of all new contracts. 
Then in the  Australian Financial Review  on 29 September, Brian Toohey said: 
Building approvals fell in both the dwelling and nondwelling sectors during August despite the reassurance given by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in Parliament last week. 
An article in the  Australian  quoted the Master Builders' Association, which is one of the organisations more closely associated with the conservatives than with the radicals in the political movement. It stated: 
The total on-site building workforce fell from a peak 58 506 in March, 1 97 1 to a low of 38 502 in March this year, according to figures released yesterday by the Master Builders Association of New South Wales.  the Master Builders' Association is becoming increasingly alarmed at the progressive deterioration of the industry. Yesterday it said that Government has failed to act to revive building despite advice from its own Indicative Planning Council, the Department of Construction, and various industrial organisations. 
While all of those reports were on hand for governments and parliaments to examine what statements were made by the Ministers of this Government to show their hypocrisy and inability to understand the economy? In the middle of all this evidence, on 16 October the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Newman,  said in Launceston that there was an encouraging improvement in the construction industry and there were signs of further gains.  Mr McLeay,  the Minister for Construction, who has the responsibility on behalf of this Government, was quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  as saying: 
I would say to anybody anywhere in this country, and in particular in New South Wales, now is the time to build. 
So we have this inability by this Government to come to grips with the very grave economic problems that exist in this country- problems that are not the result of 3 years of Labor Government; problems that are structural problems based on the development of industry in Australia over 90 to 100 years; problems which the Industries Assistance Commission has repeatedly drawn to the attention of Governments with regard to what is needed to be done; problems that show that there are cyclical movements within sectors of the Australian economy. For example, in March this year there was a peak period in manufacturing. But since then there has been a decline. Motor vehicle sales are now in a similar state of decline to those items to which I have already referred. Of course, unemployment is higher now than it has been for many years and there is no prospect of the situation improving. It is rather galling to have to sit here this evening and listen to the sort of speech that came from the mouth of  Senator Wright  who tried to justify all of the activity of last year. He said that the actions that the present Government took were justified because of the state of the economy when in fact the state of the economy is worse now than it has been since the recession of 1 96 1 . This Government is instituting policies that will institutionalise and make permanent in the Australian economy a large number- hundreds of thousands- of unemployed. It will become a permanent feature of the Australian economy that unemployment will be an acceptable fact. This is not hard to understand because the  Deputy  Secretary of the Treasury,  Mr John  Stone, is reported as saying in an article in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  just 2 years ago: 
The only way to reduce unemployment is to create more unemployment. 
This is precisely the advice which was tendered to the Labor Government but we rejected it. It has clearly been accepted by this Government. Nothing in these Appropriation Bills which we are discussing will do anything to bring about the sort of economic revival that is essential in this country. We know that throughout the Western world and throughout the industrial countries of the world there is this philosophical argument taking place in which the orthodox economists say that the way out of the difficulties of the economy is to cut back public spending. That is the policy to which the Government is wedded in this country. Unfortunately it is the policy which has been accepted by the British Government as a way out of its problems. It is a policy that has been accepted by successive British governments over the last decade or so. We do not accept this philosophy. We believe that an examination of the decline in the workforce in the rural sector and those involved in manufacturing industry and accepting the very great increase in the workforce in the tertiary sector- since the war it has risen from half of the workforce to two-thirds of the workforce- will show that it is in the service sector that there will be a stimulation of the Australian economy. This has taken place irrespective of philosophies, irrespective of governments, and irrespective of policies, budgets, deficits and elections. We will not get a revival in the private sector. The revival will come from an expenditure of government funds to improve goods and services to the Australian people. That was the very issue,  Mr President,  that you and your colleagues used to bring down a properly elected constitutional government when you took the infamous action just a year ago of denying the right of this Parliament to look at the Appropriation Bills. 
I refer to the Sydney Opera House for example, which would interest  Senator Gietzelt  who is a senator representing New South Wales. It was built by sucking money out of the New South Wales taxpayers' pockets in the form of lotteries in order to satisfy a pseudo-elitist element inside the New South Wales Labor Party which has been seeking to have an opera house for the last 50 years. Having sucked the money out of the pockets of the poor by encouraging them to gamble in the hope that their numbers might come up, this monstrous building was finally built on the shores of Sydney Harbour. It has now been decided that it is one of the world 's wonders. I remember travelling down the harbour in a Maritime Services Board launch and telling some of  Senator Gietzelt  's colleagues who asked me what the building was that it was a new grain terminal for the Grain Elevators Board of New South Wales. They were impressed with this new modern architecture and believed it was a grain terminal. That is what it looks like to me. However, the spending of money on the government sector in New South Wales assumes a rather interesting aspect. Having sucked all the money out of the pockets of unfortunate widows and people aspiring to get easy money in New South Wales, the New South Wales Government has put the finger on the Commonwealth Government to try to get money to sustain the people who parade inside this grain terminal, Opera House or whatever it is called. The Industries Assistance Commission has drawn attention to this matter. 
I mention this as an illustration of the fact that when money is taken from the taxpayer and devoted to such an area it is being applied to a non-profitable area which is not producing anything.  Senator Gietzelt  also referred to Great Britain and said that Great Britain is in terrible trouble because it is going through a deflationary period. He said this could all be solved quite simply if the Government of Great Britain, headed by  Mr Callaghan  at the moment as Prime Minister, would spend more public money. What  Mr Callaghan,  the Prime Minister of Great Britain, has said to his people in Great Britain is that money has to be taken out of the public sector and put back into the private sector. The reason it must be put back into the private sector is so that the people of Great Britain can earn some money. In the 21/2 years of  Mr Whitlam  's Government, under the economic and fiscal theories of  Senator Gietzelt,  what happened was that there was a massive diversion of resources into the public sector- taking resources away from the private sector. What has happened to Australia in the meantime is that it has costed itself out of export markets. We cannot sell a car in New Zealand because Holden cars are too expensive to get into New Zealand. Holden cars have become too expensive because of the withdrawal of resources from the private sector and their direction into the public sector. 
Australian dockyards are in a state of collapse because they cannot even build ships. It has been canvassed many times in the public newspapers and inside this Parliament that to build a ship in Australia costs $ 1 1 , 000 per man employed in the shipyards. The most memorable illustration of this sort of dockyard is the New South Wales State Dockyard in Newcastle. I have heard dockyard unionists complain justly that the reason the Newcastle dockyard has costed itself out of markets is that it has no modern resources- no modern technology- to build ships, unlike West Germany, Sweden, Japan or South Korea. There has been no reinvestment in the Newcastle dockyard for 10 years. Why has there been no reinvestment in that dockyard? It is a government dockyard and governments have not reinvested any money in it. It is a simple illustration of socialism in practice. 
We have had 2 problems illustrated by  Senator Gietzelt.  One is the decayed economy in 
Great Britain which cannot finance itself any longer. It has been living on the savings of past generations. It has exhausted the savings of past generations. It is no longer competitive in the world. It is a sad feeling that I and any honourable senator sitting in this House who derives paternally from Great Britain have when I see that the country which led the industrial revolution is now in its present state simply because of the besotted pursuit of a socialist objective. Having said that, I do not want to say any more about it. The issue was decided on 11 November and agreed to by the Australian people on 13 December 1975. They had had a gut full of socialism as practised by the Australian Labor Party. Any housewife can tell honourable senators opposite, if they will listen, the position when she went about trying to keep her family. Costs were rising day after day and week after week. 
Do you think it has stopped? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer him to my question on Tuesday about a proposed reduction of Australian beef exports to Japan and his reply that he knew of no foundation that existed for any such rumours. I now ask the Minister: Has he seen the statement by the  President  of the Graziers Association of Victoria,  Mr J.  A. Kelly, that Japan has deferred until December 9500 tonnes of Australian beef imports and that this has serious implications to producers? Further, is the Minister aware that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  about 5 weeks ago publicly expressed apprehension about proposed reductions of beef exports to Japan? In view of these facts will the Minister now accept that the rumour has some substance and urge the Prime Minister to raise urgently with the Japanese Government the need for some stability in beef exports to Japan? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether it is a fact that new capital spending in the private sector is slower in 1976 than it was in 1975. Does this lag indicate that the investment led recovery claimed by the Government early this year has not materialised and that the Government has now revised its economic strategy to suggest that an investment recovery will not come until the end of 1977? In the circumstances, has the Government considered abolishing the 40 per cent investment allowance and the double depreciation concession for the purposes of reducing the deficit which, as was said yesterday, at present exceeds the deficit as at this time last year? Has a recognition of the failure of this part of the Government's economic policy led to the credit squeeze announced on Sunday by the Treasurer? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-In directing a question to the Minister for Social Security I draw her attention to the statement of the Prime Minister to the Stanford Research Institute in Sydney in which he said: 
In giving priority to inflation, we are giving priority to unemployment. 
I ask the Minister: Has this policy the endorsement of Cabinet, and does she believe that inflation is being reduced substantially? What will be the effect of more unemployment on the Department's allocation of funds? Has the Minister given any consideration to easing the unnecessary conditions applied to unemployed persons in view of the projected increase in the number of persons drawing social security benefits? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Georges.  Has the Government intimated expressly or by implication to Telecom Australia not to receive or pass on messages from East Timor? Does the Government not accept that it and its statutory authorities have an obligation to give information to Australian residents, including new residents, and relatives or sympathisers of the East Timorese people living in Australia? Would the denial of information be a breach of international conduct and a repudiation of humanitarian principles? If Telecom is to discontinue receiving and passing on such messages, could the Overseas Telecommunications Commission be asked to provide this important facility of communication? 
-Within the next 24 hours the United Nations will be discussing for the fourth time the problem of East Timor and the annexation of that territory by Indonesia. It is to be hoped that on this occasion the Australian Government will associate itself with the overwhelming majority of other countries in condemning the continued occupation of East Timor by Indonesia which almost a year ago without provocation and without lawful excuse invaded the country and then carried through the farce which it claimed to be an act of self-determination. 
It is to be hoped that the Australian Government will not bow to pressures from Indonesia and that it will, in fact, ally itself with majority opinion and again demand the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from East Timor. During 1975 and 1976 a number of senators from both the Government and Opposition sides of the chamber have endeavoured to represent the views of the Timorese people and to express their desires for self-determination. However, it has to be said that those pleas have not been accepted by the Government and Australia has taken steps this year which must be regarded as unfriendly acts. They must be regarded as regarding the pleas of the people of Timor in such a way as to prevent their exercising an act of selfdetermination. 
On 2 1 September I asked  Senator Withers,  following questions raised by members of bis own Party about what was taking place in East Timor, a question concerning statements published in the Melbourne  Herald  which claimed to be a summary of discussions between  Mr Malik  and  Mr Peacock.  Today the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  was kind enough to give me a reply in which  Mr Peacock,  via the Prime Minister, assured us that not on any occasion did  Mr Peacock  assure the Indonesian Foreign Minister that the Australian Government understood that Indonesia had to annex East Timor. 
So  Mr Malik  was soon again to be misleading world opinion and to be misreading the Australian position. Of course, this is not the first time that  Mr Malik  has done that. During 1975 he made numerous statements which sought to suggest that Australia understood the position. It might be recalled that the Prime Minister of Australia in 1975,  Mr Whitlam,  had his position misrepresented by the same  Mr Malik.  This was so in particular in the release of so-called cables several months ago. I think we have to come to the conclusion, therefore, that  Mr Malik  handles the truth very carelessly and that he is prepared to prejudice the position of the Australian Government, whether it be the previous Government or the present Government. 
What we are concerned about- I think all Australians ought to be concerned about this- is the continuing occupation of East Timor by Indonesia and the perpetration of atrocities that are clearly taking place in the former Portuguese colony. When I asked a question today, for example, of  Senator Carrick  on Telecom I though I would have received a reply in which the Minister indicated that he understood the issues related to Timor, because he was a member of an Australian force which was there during World War II. It was a force known as the Sparrow Force'. I would have expected that the Minister would have been prepared to do more than just reply to me in terms similar to the prepaid reply given in the House of Representatives. He gave me a lengthy reply and said that, of course, the decision to stop Telecom from receiving or conveying messages for East Timor was due to it being outside of Telecom's responsibility to convey overseas messages. 
The facts are that, whatever may be said about the deficiencies of the previous Government, this Government has for its own reasons which I find hard to comprehend taken steps to deny any facilities for the people of Timor to express themselves. Firstly, it has denied facilities for the United Nations representative,  Mr Guicciardi,  and secondly, it has closed down the radio station. Now, for the third time, it has taken the step of denying even the receipt of messages from Timor to Australia. What I find difficult to understand is why the Minister said that there were considerable doubts as to the authenticity of the messages. That leads me to the conclusion that the Government does not accept the authenticity of the messages, and that therefore they ought to be terminated and not conveyed to the Australian people. 
Of course, these messages come out of Timor, are received by Telecom, and on occasions are published in the Australian newspapers. It is for us to decide whether those messages are true or false. We do not expect the Australian Government to act as a censor, any more than we would expect Australian newspapers to do so. I think we are entitled to read these messages and form our own independent judgments. So I think I am entitled to say that the statement made by  Senator Carrick  is deliberately deceptive and inhumane and is an attempt to adhere to the demands of the Indonesian Government. One cannot understand or accept any reason why the Australian Government would go out of its way to deny this very elementary facility of conveying communications. 
We know that the Indonesians have repeatedly called upon the Australian Government to put an end to Fretilin representatives acting freely in Australia. I find this a denial of hospitality which was accorded to the Australian troops during World War II. Having regard to his own involvement, I would have thought that  Senator Carrick  in particular would have adopted a more intelligent, humane and compassionate attitude in response to that question which was placed before him by  Senator Georges  initially and subsequently by me. The Fraser Government seems to have meekly accepted the Indonesian representation. Not only has it acted to prevent information coming out of East Timor but it has also refused visas to 2 Fretilin representatives, Man Alkatiri and  Mr Rogiero  Lobato. I met the 2 Lobato brothers when I was in Timor in 1975. I cannot understand how one of these gentlemen could possibly be construed to represent any threat to Indonesia or Australia and why he should be denied an opportunity to come to Australia and talk to the Government, members of the Parliament and the Australian people.  Mr Lobato  is a representative of the provisional government which was established prior to the invasion of Timor in December last year. 
I wonder why it is that every possible step is being taken by this Government to deny Timor any form of contact with the outside world. If the Indonesian Government feels that is has the authority to move into Timor and make the expression of self-determination itself I think it has to be said that Indonesia cannot claim to represent the Timorese people when, in fact, all the leaders of the Timorese independence movement are still alive and happy in Timor. That is to say they are being nurtured and protected by the people of Timor in the same fashion as Australian troops were during World War II. One would imagine that if any of the members of the provisional government had been captured by the Indonesian forces who are in Timor in great numbers, we would have heard something about it. No member of the provisional government, the liberation forces or the independence movement has, in fact, been captured. That was the experience of the Australian troops during World War II. Such is the terrain of Timor and the tenacity of its people that when they feel their cause is right they will protect those whom they believe are their friends. They did that for many years during World War II. They have done it for the whole of 1976. 
I wonder how much pressure has been exerted on the Australian Government by Australian Embassy officials in Jakarta. Reports were published in newspapers which indicated that  Mr Woolcott,  Australia's Ambassador to Indonesia, was in fact representing a certain point of view to the Australian Government. Government leaders and supporters in this place might say: 'Well, that is a newspaper report'. We have no other way of judging whether pressure was brought to bear on the Australian Government because we have had no opportunity to establish the veracity or otherwise of those statements. They were not denied by the Australian Government. Therefore, one is entitled to draw the conclusion that the Australian Government has bowed to the pressure of Indonesia or the persuasion or  Mr Woolcott.  Now that the Government has instructed Telecom not to receive messages from or deliver messages to East Timor, I think we are entitled to say that it is acquiescing in the Indonesian demands and that this is a high point of foolishness and inhumanity. It is a foolish decision because our long term interests are not served by obeying Indonesia 's every whim. 
This is more so when one considers how Papua New Guinea must view our marshmallow reactions to the Generals. Only recently the Indonesians informed General Diro from Papua New Guinea that if Indonesia felt that its socalled national interests were threatened by internal Papua New Guinea politics- there has been some expression of this in the Press- they would then be forced to act. In other words, the Indonesians were prepared to intimidate the internal political movement in Papua New Guinea. The rights or wrongs of the situation I leave aside. The fact is that they are prepared to express public views which must be considered to be intimidatory of the internal political movement in that country. Let us remember what happened in West Irian. Let us remember what is happening in East Timor. Let us remember that these threats are now being made against Papua New Guinea. 
It is indeed a myopic view of our own longterm interest to accede so readily to this pressure. It is also foolish because it shows the rest of the world just how unprincipled and lacking in will Australia seems to have become. Just 6 months after finally supporting East Timor in the United Nations expediency seems to be the rule of the day. It is about time this Government stood firm for some major principles. It is about time this Government reaffirmed Australia's position in the United Nations and established a modicum of relationship between the independence movement of Timor and this country. 
The decision to try to cut off this last contact with the world is inhumane. We all know what happened to the members of the Australian media- the journalists and television crew- who went to Timor for the very purpose of reporting the events in September, October and November of last year. We all know that they were shot down in cold blood. There is some evidence now from unimpeachable sources that Roger East, who was in Dih the day of the occupation, was attempting to send a message to Australia about the invasion that was taking place and that he, likewise, was shot down in cold blood. 
As I have said, this decision is inhumane. It is an attempt further to isolate the suffering and the heroism of the East Timorese people from Australia and from the world community. I do not know what else one has to do to try to get from this Government some degree of understanding, some compassion and some cooperation. It is utterly despicable and callous to close down a mere communication link. I do not know how Australia can parade with any degree of self respect in the world's forum at the United Nations meeting now taking place as a result of the decision that has been taken in the last few days. Here we have Telecom- a statutory authority; a body set up by the decision of this Parliament- being directed by the Australian Government to sever a communications link. 
The Minister in his reply to the question today said that the authenticity of the cables is in doubt. I believe that is a sham. But even if it is not, surely we are entitled to read about the situation there, surely we are entitled to receive the cables and surely we are entitled to make our own judgments. I suggest that the Minister ought to contact the Joint Intelligence Organisation and the other intelligence bodies that operate covertly in this country. I know that they will tell him that those communications are authentic. I am not suggesting that every phrase and every word can be properly accepted. As with all communications, there is some degree of emphasis which might otherwise be avoided. But the fact is that our Intelligence Organisation confirms the authenticity of these cables originating in East Timor. More than anything else, therefore, the closure of the Telecom link seeks to deny to the world as well as to Australia any information about the independence movement in East Timor. It seeks to hide the brutality of the Indonesian troops in East Timor. It seeks to hide from the public information about the growing resistance movement in East Timor. It is a direct manoeuvre to cover up the real nature of the continuing war and, as such, the decision must be and will be condemned by public opinion not only in Australia but also in many other countries. 
The messages sent through Telecom gave us an impression of a brutalised people continuing to fight for their rights and ideals. That is not a very pretty picture, but it is generally a realistic one. In the absence of any independent observers, journalists or aid agency people, the messages virtually are the only remaining public source of information about the war. Obviously the pro-Indonesian Government sources must be discounted, whether they come from Dih or from Jakarta. We all will remember the descriptions of the Indonesian volunteers who landed on Timor by parachute and from warships. Volunteers! Surely honourable Senators on the Government side cannot accept a puerile description of that sort. This incredible he has been added to significantly since the emblazoned headlines which appeared in the Indonesian  Times  of 8 December 1975, when the Indonesians told the world that they were going into East Timor to liberate the people of East Timor. 
We are fortunate now to be receiving private documents and eye witness accounts of the situation in East Timor. They come from courageous people whose liberty, as well as that of their friends, could be in jeopardy if we were to reveal to the Senate and to the Australian people the source of this information. I want to assure the Senate that I have seen reports from unimpeachable sources. To reveal such sources would mean the massacre of those people for sending out such information. They are people associated with the Christian Church in East Timor. At the time of the occupation they thought that that was the course of action that ought to have been taken, but now they recount in harrowing detail the tragedy that is East Timor. The contents of the reports also show that the Government's rapid acquiescence in Indonesian policy denies the existence of a strong and viable independence movement. How could that movement live and grow if it did not have strong roots among the people of East Timor? As I have indicated, the entire leadership is carrying on the struggle in most difficult circumstances in that country. 
Several facts to which I want to refer indicate an increase in the resistance. These facts came from sources which are unimpeachable. Firstly the report indicates that 80 per cent of the people of the territory of East Timor and over 75 per cent of the population are outside the direct control of Indonesia. This is a striking revelation of the failure of the Indonesian military junta and of the military strategy. One year after the invasion and with the wet season now commencing, the Indonesians have almost no chance of extending their areas of control. The report says that the Indonesians, faced with tenuous control, are now contemplating using that most horrible of all weapons, napalm, in order to subjugate the people of that country. We all have vivid memories of the destruction wrought by this weapon in Vietnam. 
Honourable senators might have misgivings about this report, but it says that 20 000, out of the total 30 000 people living in and around Dili, have asked for permission to leave for Portugal. Surely those facts could be checked with the Portuguese Government if this Government was sincere in its concern for the people of East Timor. If these reports are true, they are a terrible indictment of the brutality of the Indonesian troops in East Timor. Two-thirds of the people living in the capital of East Timor want to leave the country one year after the invasion. This is something we cannot ignore if we are to retain some humanity and self-respect. 
The closure of the Telecom link would have to be one of the most scurrilous foreign affairs decisions taken by any Australian government, because that is the source of information available to us and to me. I am prepared to make that information available provided honourable senators on the Government side respect the confidentiality of the report and thus protect the people involved. The report shows a parallel between the information coming out of Timor and the report coming from these unimpeachable sources. Thirdly, the report says that the real estimates of the death toll during the year of Indonesian occupation may have reached 100 000 people. Government senators may sit opposite with a smile or a smirk on their face or be cynical about this- some of them- but that is a report - 
Do you know anything about warfare? Do you know anything about intelligence organisations? Do you know anything about invasion? I am not asking you to accept the authenticity of my report. I am saying that that is what the report says. You make your own checks. You seek out your own sources of information. If my information is correct- and I believe it is- and 100 000 people have been killed, then it is the worst genocide in history because there are only 650 000 people living in 
East Timor. Never in the history of mankind have so many people lost their lives, if the report is accurate. It is for the honourable senator to check it out. The report that has been given to me is worthy of examination. It is worthy of checking. It is worthy of acceptance by the Government to determine whether it is true or otherwise. I believe in the veracity of the report. I do not spend my time in this chamber making statements that have not some credibility. 
-That may be considered to be an extraordinarily high number of people. As I reported to the Senate on a previous occasion, 80 per cent of the Chinese males in Dili were murdered on the day of the Indonesian invasion. You have had your opportunity,  Senator, to  check whether that was true or false. You are a supporter of the Government. You have access to information. That was the figure I gave and it has now been confirmed by another source. We do know that in the actions following the coup in Indonesia 10 years or so ago there was a massacre of a great number of Chinese people- unjustified, in my view. A similar massacre took place when the forces marched into Dili. The Chinese people were massacred as they were in Indonesia a decade or so ago. The incredible thing, of course, is that those Chinese citizens in Dili were supporters of the Taiwanese regime. They were not supporters of the People's Republic of China. When we were there we spoke to the Chinese community- the Chinese Chamber of Commerce. We spoke to the Indonesian Ambassador. We spoke to the Catholic Bishop of Dili. They all confirmed that the Chinese people in Dili were in no way identified with the People's Republic of China but were in fact supporters of Taiwan and all their children were sent to Taiwan for their secondary school education. Those matters can be checked out to ascertain whether they are the truth or not. 

 Senator Carrick and those other Australians who have served in Timor would remember a  Mr John  Martires who, under the Portuguese administration, was the person charged with the customs operations in that country. According to a report in today's Melbourne  Sun  his granddaughter has been raped and put to death by the Indonesian troops. These are reports that are coming out of that country. I cannot say that these things happened or that they did not happen but I think they are worthy of some investigation by the Government. If there is any part of truth in what I am saying then it must be regarded as one of the worst tragedies of this century. 
Fourthly, the report states that whatever support may have existed for integration has been eroded due to the excesses of the Indonesian troops. In fact, it is now said- again by unimpeachable sources- that if there were a referendum Fretilin would win by a massive majority. I have referred to the brutalisation of the population, including the death of that young lass. Such brutality, of course, leads to reaction and has led to widespread resistance within the country. Surely the fact that resistance is continuing in Timor is some indication that the Indonesian Government is not having all its own way. The Indonesian troops have lost the hearts and minds of the East Timorese people. Sooner or later the truth will out. Sooner or later the public record will show whether what I am saying is true or false. Sooner or later we will establish the actions of the previous government and of this Government. I am content to leave it to history to decide. 
I think it is up to us as human beings, as citizens, to try to see whether there is any truth in these reports. If there is, we should be acting. As members of the Opposition we cannot act, but honourable senators opposite as supporters of the Government can act. They have the power within their Party and within the Government to take action and to check on whether what I am saying is true. They can see that the decisions of the United Nations are carried out or that otherwise penalties are imposed upon the Indonesian Government. Honourable members might say that we did not do enough about the situation. But at least we went there to see the position. When I was asked by a member of the State Council of the Liberal Party in New South Wales to go to Timor on my second trip I said: 'It is no good convincing me. I want a Liberal Party member to come with mc so that the other point of view can see with its own eyes the sort of thing I saw when I went there earlier this year.' Honourable senators know that  Senator Bonner  accompanied us and made his own observations. He spoke to the same people who are now sending out these reports to us. It is up to  Senator Bonner  to follow through from the sources with which he established connections. He should communicate with those sources to establish the veracity or otherwise of the reports to which I am referring. 
Fifthly, the report refers to the humanitarian assistance destined for East Timor usage being used by Indonesian troops. We have been sending aid to the people of Timor through the Indonesian Red Cross. Is that not the concern of this Parliament? Is that not the concern of the Government? Are we just to be rubber stamps in this place with no rights and no means to express ourselves or to demand some checks on what aid is being given to Timor? I remind honourable senators that taxpayers' money is involved. They wax eloquent in this place from time to time about taxpayers' money being protected. It is taxpayers money which is being sent in the form of aid to Indonesia for the people of East Timor. It is to be distributed by the Indonesian Red Cross. The report says that that aid is not being distributed to the people of Timor. So there is another responsibility on the part of the Government parties to check on those facts. After all, we made a direct grant of $83,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross because the Indonesian Government would not allow the International Red Cross into Timor. So, Australian journalists went to Timor to report and they were murdered. We then asked for representatives of the United Nations to go there and they were denied facilities. We then asked the International Red Cross to go there and report and that request was denied. The Australian Government meekly accepts that position and makes money available to the Indonesian Red Cross to distribute goods to the people of Timor. 
Finally, the report states that Fretilin forces are treating the people well and, importantly, are respecting their religious beliefs. In this connection the report states that the majority of the people in Indonesia controlled areas who were previously not members of any religious denomination have now adopted Christianity. This is due to the Indonesian edict requiring all persons to state a religion. I think it is obvious to honourable senators that the source of the report is the Christian church. This report tells of terror, brutality and fear in those parts of Timor which the Indonesian troops occupy. The report is an indictment of the Indonesian activities in East Timor. They amount to brutality and destruction of the whole infrastructure and of the people of East Timor. I do not think Government senators can meekly sit back and accept the latest decision of this Government to prevent Telecom receiving and conveying messages from East Timor because it aids and abets what is taking place in that country and all Australians worth their salt would vehemently condemn this decision. 
The Senate, in debating amendments to the Australian Heritage Commission Act, has been treated to very interesting contributions by some honourable senators from the Government side. I think I can agree substantially with the view that they have expressed, namely, that they are concerned for the National Estate; but I wonder whether they really know what this Bill is about and what the amendments are about. The Senate, in discussing this matter, ought to be aware of the fact that these amendments were passed by the House of Representatives in May of this year. So it has taken 6 months for this Bill to cross King's Hall. Yet one certainly would have to agree with the contributions made by Senators Kilgariff and Missen about their concern for the National Estate and the need for the Government to be identified with this important initiative. 
When one reflects on the debate in 1975 one is struck by the unanimity of the Senate and the House of Representatives at a time when other things were dividing us very considerably. The feature of the debate was the understanding and the appreciation by the then Opposition of the important initiative that had been taken by the Whitlam Government. Before the ink was dry on the legislation we were confronted in the early pan of this year with amendments to the Heritage Commission legislation, despite the fact that it had received speedy assent and support of all parties in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Of course that was a unique event, when we look at the other matters in 1975. We were very appreciative of the co-operation that was extended at the time in the establishment of the Commission. It is unique to have the tributes that were paid at that time, and repeated this evening in this debate generally by Government senators, to the Hope report. 
I ought to draw some facts to the attention qf honourable senators because I do not believe they really understand what these amendments are about. The report which was placed before the Parliament last year stated: 
The Australian Government has inherited a National Estate which has been downgraded, disregarded and neglected. All previous priorities accepted at various levels of government and authority have been directed by a concept of uncontrolled development, economic growth and progress', and the encouragement of private as against public interest in land use, use of waters, and indeed in every part of the National Estate, was paramount. 
Yet the amendments we are debating dismember the original legislation. They dismantle the operative features of the Australian Heritage Commission Bill which received the support of the Parliament last year. The important thing about the Australian Heritage Commission, the National Estate and the concepts involved with them was that for the first time initiatives were taken at the grass roots level, at the citizen level, at the community group level, at the concerned people's level. People perceived before governments the need to identify, the need to register, the need to protect all the aspects of the National Estate. These actions were being taken down at the level of the people themselves. It finally resulted in government at the national level for the first time in Australia establishing the Heritage Commission and the concept of the National Estate. 
Behind the former Government's consideration of these issues was the desire to give recognition to the efforts of the people- not centralised efforts, which expression we have heard bandied about so many times in this place that we are sickened- but recognition that there is an understanding about these issues at the community level. When that Government set about the establishment of the initial discussions to bring into life the National Estate and the Heritage Commission it did so in co-operation with the States, quite contrary to the rhetoric to which we have been subjected by the Government parties for the last couple of years. After all, the very initial meetings of the interim committee were held specifically State by State so that the recognition of this issue and the understanding of it would be transmitted to those States which hitherto had not accepted any responsibility or understandings of the need for legislative action in this matter. The result of those informal and formal discussions at the State level was the establishment of co-operative federalism, the establishment of the principle of governments working together, the establishment of the principle involving local government and community organisations. This was the very centre, the very focal point, of the Government's endeavours when it set about the establishment of the concepts of the National Estate. 
Of course, in the process of establishing this we found the need to have some regard to numbers. We found the need to have representatives of the 
States involved, whether they be in government instrumentalities or in private capacities. So in the original legislation to establish a commission of 12 to 19 members recognition of the rights of the States, of local government and of interest groups was the centrepiece. The present Government is now dismembering that legislation to bring the number of members of the Commission down to 4 to 6 members. Honourable senators opposite are the very people who have had a holy crusade about the issues of cooperation with the States and of federalism. The public discussion that ensued in those early years of the Whitiam Government excited the interests of all the community groups, the conservationists, the scientists, the national trust bodies, the environmentalists and the citizens. In the debate last year honourable senators opposite paid tribute to the reports that came before the Parliament. Now they want to tum their backs upon the very principles that they supported less than a year ago. 
The Labor Government was a catalyst and the vehicle by which action could be taken to establish a heritage commission which offered the opportunity of consolidating the gains created by the consensus to the principles of preserving the National Estate obtained through governments- Australian, State and local government- the private sector and the public sector. I even pay tribute to some of the captains of industry and some of the leading employers in the construction industry who became concerned. I pay equal tribute- perhaps more tribute- to those members of the Builders Labourers Federation who were in the vanguard position, in the forefront, and who suffered grievously for their convictions about the National Estate and the preservation of historic buildings, areas and all the other factors that go to make up the National Estate. The spirit of co-operation that existed in this chamber over legislation does not seem to be sufficient to save the National Estate from the amendments which the Government is seeking to force through the Parliament today. Unless the determination of the community that was expressed in those early days is reinvigorated and re-established the efforts of this Government to undermine and reduce to a mere shell the Heritage Commission will succeed. There will have to be a movement of the people themselves to establish and maintain the very principles with which the original legislation was associated in the years 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
The Heritage Commission has a role to play in providing this avenue of community awareness, community vigilance and community involvement. It has a role to play in providing brakes to public and private sector activity which, as  Senator KIlgariff  has said, constantly threatens the ? reservation of the National Estate. As well the Commission has an important role to play in initiating projects and furthering awareness. Yet these amendments restrict the right to provide that very consideration. In short, the Heritage Commission should be seen as an active participator and defender of the National Estate when conflicts of interest occur. It should not be just a passive auditor, which seems to be the understanding of this Government in the 3-pronged attack that these amendments seek to make- to reduce funding, to reduce the effectiveness of the Department and to reduce the involvement of those who are the commissioners. It is axiomatic that the Commission must be adequately funded. Any government action to withdraw economic support on whatever pretext undermines the proper function of the Commission. 
Surely nobody will have the gall to suggest that, if $50,000 or $100,000 of public funds maintains an old building or a section of the national estate anywhere in this country, that is inflationary, but if the Bank of New South Wales or the Australian Mutual Provident Society buys a building for some speculative purpose that is not inflationary- that the mere expenditure of public funds is to be a matter of regret and a matter to be avoided. These amendments show that the Government lacks the determination to fight for the very principles of the National Estate, because it is money above all and not just a national register which is fundamentally needed. To that degree what  Senator Kilgariff  had to say with respect to the Aboriginal aspects of the National Estate may well have some credence. He may well be right. We may at this stage need to register only those particular parts of he Estate. "But the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has stated publicly that he considers the establishment of an advance register as a necessary prerequisite before funding can recommence, although every day sections of the National Estate are being affected because of the lack of funds. 
The Prime Minister has seemingly forgotten that an informal register is already in existence in the Hope Committee report. He has forgotten that the National Trust bodies of the States have for many years had formal registers which include many examples of the National Estate under immediate threat. The Prime Minister ignores this because he does not want to do anything substantial about protecting the National 
Estate. He fails to realise that the compilation of a National Estate register is a never-ending process. No one person or government can ever be placed in a position to assert that the register is not well advanced. There are enough items on the register at the moment to warrant providing a great quantity of funds. Precious time has been wasted. It is 6 months since this measure was debated in the other place. Even when the legislation was brought into the Senate several weeks ago, it was passed down the line and downgraded. When will we see some enlightened understanding of this matter by Government senators? 
I will give some examples of what funding today could save for tomorrow's generations of Australians. In New South Wales funds are urgently needed to protect the Elizabeth Farm Cottage. It is Australia's oldest structure, and it is sadly m need of repair. We know of the buildings in the Glebe Estate and the Woolloomooloo Estate. Whatever redevelopment projects may be considered to be desirable in the interests of so-called progress some parts of those areas ought to be preserved. What about Paddy's Market in Sydney and the Chinatown area? They should be preserved as part of the National Estate. Who will provide the funds for that? What about the Cooma Cottage near Yass? It requires funds for it to be opened to the public as part of the general education program and the community awareness which honourable senators spoke so much about last year and in the present debate. We know of the recent destruction of the Blacket Building in George Street, Sydney, and of Jamison House. This was done by a Commonwealth instrumentality. Where was this Government's initiative? It was the New South Wales Labor Government which, at the eleventh hour, moved in to try to save the facade so that it could be reassembled elsewhere. 
I pay tribute, even if honourable senators opposite do not, to the very energetic efforts of the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren,  who had determination and understanding and who fought for the preservation of a National Estate even within the confines of restricted public funding by the Labor Government. The present Administration does not back up its words with action. The National Estate is being despoiled and buildings are being destroyed while this Government dillydallies over the legislation, haggles about funds, and claims that the need to establish a register is the most important action to be taken. While it is an important part of the responsibility of the national Government it is not the one and only important factor. At present the services of town planners, architects with specialised experience and planners, who could offer advice to Federal, State or local governments, private and public enterprises and householders, are being lost through the lack of financial support. That is what this legislation and the Budget have sought to do and have succeeded in doing. The Heritage Commission has the object- or had the object-of training people for this specialised work. Who is willing to go in for something which now has so little future? There are no funds for this training program this year. They have been left out of the Budget in the interests of reducing the deficit. 
In Victoria funds are needed now for Yarra Glen, a set of original early buildings in the vernacular tradition. They are needed for the Lal Lal blast furnace near Ballarat, the last relic of the iron industry in Australia. They are needed for the Steam Packet Inn in Portland which is falling down. They are needed for Barwon Park at Winchelsea and the former ANZ Bank in Bendigo. Funds are needed now, not in the 1977-78 Budget. I turn north to Queensland. What about Geraghty's Store in Maryborough which was purchased with a National Estate grant and partly restored but not finished? What about the old windmill at Wickham Terrace, Brisbane, which is the oldest industrial building in that State? I ask government senators from Queensland: Is it not worth saving? What about the Birdsville Hotel which is privately owned but in need of proper restoration? Who is now to bear the cost of being the watchdog over plans and redevelopments and the changing of local government zonings of buildings not yet classified? That is taking place now. Those changes are on the agenda throughout Australia. As we move into the latter part of this century, local government is changing its zonings and permitting redevelopment of areas. 
The vastness of Western Australia puts extra emphasis on the difficulties of classifying even a few types of buildings, such as railway stations, town halls etc. In Western Australia funds are needed for the Balladong Farm and the Palace Hotel which is not yet beyond threat. In Tasmania Franklin House and Clarendon House in Launceston require further funds. The situation in the Northern Territory is of grave concern. I share  Senator Kilgariff's  concern about this. A National Trust body has only just been formed. But what chance has a group of concerned citizens in the Northern Territory against the pressure of development that exists in that part of Australia? What chance is there of obtaining a balance between conflicting interests if the national Government does not take up its responsibilities? I am sorry that  Senator Kilgariff  is not in the chamber. 
That is right. They are not particularly interested, except for those who have spoken in the debate. In 1975-76 the Labor Government allocated $120,000 for the Northern Territory under the National Estate program. After the sacking of the Labor Government, this Government decided that its commitment to the Territory could and would be waived. Commitments to the States continued to some extent but I remind  Senator Kilgariff,  wherever he is, that in the Northern Territory the commitment was cut by $1 10,000. All it received was $15,000. I applaud the fact that  Senator Kilgariff  drew our attention to the need for rangers, inspection and protection. Of course, that is true. That was thought by the Whitlam Government when it introduced this legislation. This measly, miserly Government, which is more concerned with giving incentives to the multinational mining corporations than protecting our National Estate, cut the allocation from $125,000 to $15,000. Where is the protest of the Government senators? They talk piously and even petulantly. They do not produce the goods in terms of what is required to protect the National Estate in the Northern Territory. Why was the Northern Territory discriminated against? Why does the Prime Minister and the hierarchy of his Government refuse funds at the same time as the Prime Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
There have been programs of assistance in past years that have been most fruitful and very well received in the States. 
Why claim to wait for more time to be placed on a register before providing funds when those already on the register are being destroyed? 
If my contribution to this debate has not convinced honourable senators opposite, perhaps the words of  Senator Durack  will. I wonder what  Senator Durack  was doing in the Party room when the expenditure on the National Estate was being slashed and when these amendments were being debated. Let us see what he had to say in his contribution to the debate of last year. He said: 
There is no question that although all the expert advice in the world may be available in identifying these places, and with all the goodwill in the world regarding their preservation, very little in this regard can be done effectively without the necessary finance. That is why I congratulate the Government- 
I give  Senator Durack  full marks for doing that, because so often in governments and in parliaments credit is not given where credit is due- for having already given an earnest of its good intentions in this area and providing in grants to the States this year $6m for assistance in these matters. There is also, I think, a grant for nature conservation this year totalling $9m. That is a very good start but it will have to continue if any effective work is to be done in the future in preserving the National Estate . . . I agree that it is a good principle. It is all the better because it is not just the adoption of a principle but that principle is backed by financial resources. 
Yet what is this legislation seeking to do? It is reducing the finances and the effectiveness of the Commission, and it is reducing several other features about which I will speak shortly. In the same debate  Senator Missen  said:  . . money is important in this area. That is one of the things which must be recognised. More money will be involved if we are to retain the heritage which we presently enjoy. 
As members of the Government, both  Senator Durack  and  Senator Missen  are being compromised by their own Party colleagues. Whether they are having their arms twisted I do not know, but it is time for them to speak out against any attempt to reduce the effectiveness of the legislation. The Government's decision not to continue funds for new projects this year cannot be excused because of current economic circumstances, as has been indicated so many times by  Senator Carrick  that it is like playing an old record. He says that we overspent during our period in government. Yet time and time again he has criticised the Labor Government for having reduced expenditure in some area of education for this reason or for that. 
I think  Mr Simon  was referred to in the debate by  Senator Missen.  What did he have to say as a back bencher of the Government? He said: 
If any commitment of the national environment which would form pan of the National Estate and appear on the register in accordance with the terms of the Act is in danger of destruction, despoliation or is in any way adversely affected, the Government must take immediate and urgent steps, on the advice of the Commission, to preserve or maintain that component. To talk of economic restraint whilst pan of our heritage is being destroyed is tantamount to vandalism at a national Government level. 
What did  Mr Hunt  have to say? He said many goods things when he was the shadow Minister, and I applaud him for it. When I was battling in my Party room in respect of Fraser Island I quoted the words that he had used on that issue. I respect the fact that he had a point of view on that matter. When  Mr Hunt  was Opposition spokesman on environment matters, he had this to say on the legislation of last year: 
It is in times of prosperity, full employment and social security that a population is likely to concern itself with the environment of the National Estate. It is in times of economic disaster and social suffering that a population is more likely to concern itself with its own social survival and to ignore the environment and the preservation of the National Estate. 
Clearly our National Estate will not be preserved if in times of economic boom it must yield to the undefined pressures of so-called progress and if in times of recession it receives no funds because of the equally unacceptable assertion about current economic restraints. 
This Government and honourable senators opposite have to exhibit the determination and commitment to support unreservedly the National Estate, as expressed last year when speedy passage was given to the Australian Heritage Commission Bill. The Government has to reserve top priority to the concept of the National Estate, extended as it has been to include valuable townscapes of the Australian working and middle classes of different eras and not just the relics of the ruling classes. It must give priority to projects of decentralisation and planned rehabilitation which provide the intiative and direction for other public sectors and the private sector to follow. It must question its priorities when it prefers to cause an additional annual profit of $ 12m to be gained by a foreign controlled company, purportedly in a position to predict a profit in excess of $100m for the next financial year, and yet refuses at the same time to continue an expressed commitment to the National Estate. What is required from the Government is action. What is required from Government senators is action and not pious words. 
The amendments to the legislation passed last year do not strengthen the Commission. I have already referred to some of those amendments. The amendments to section 12 of the Act will reduce the number of persons on the Commission from 19 to 6. That reduction severely cuts back the necessary representation of diverse interests on the Commission. It may even reduce the possibility of active involvement in the Commission between interests which are conflicting and which may have been influenced by National Estate considerations. It will prevent Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory from having representation. What did  Senator Durack  have to say about this very question which  Senator Missen  tried to excuse in the debate this evening?  Senator Durack  last year made the point that all States should be represented when he said: 
It is certainly going to be vital that the Minister ensure that each State and the Northern Territory will have a representative on this Commission ... we will be watching very carefully how it represents the States and the Northern Territory and the interests of each State and the Territory. 
Again it is lamentable that, although the Minister is now in the position to ensure that each State and Territory is represented, he has failed dismally to keep a watch on this legislation, because there is no chance of those States and the Northern Territory being represented on the Commission. Even the position of chairman of the Commission is to be downgraded. Previously he was to have the status of a permanent head in the Public Service. Now his status is to be considerably reduced. 
No government, as  Senator Missen  said in his contribution to last year's debate, should claim or can claim that it alone is interested in this area. The actions of Liberal-Country Party governments, both past and present, have shown that they are not interested. They did not take any initiative during those long dreary years that they occupied the government benches here in Canberra. It seems that once again the National Estate will be downgraded, disregarded and neglected and that this Government is intent on returning to the concept of uncontrolled development regardless of the consequences. 
I find it interesting that  Senator Kilgariff  and, I imagine, some of those honourable senators who have yet to speak in the debate would be concerned about the open-ended way in which the original legislation was drafted. I am speaking now of clause 12 of the original Bill which is to be changed very considerably. There is a racist consideration in the proposed amendment to that clause. Previously Aborigines could have identified sections of their law, sections of their estate, for the purpose of registration. Under this amendment we seek to put in an extra section which will take away the right of the Aborigines to have identified and have placed on the register a place as 'a site specially protected under a law of a State or Territory by reason of its association with the history, culture or beliefs of Aboriginals'. This action now must be taken in accordance with the direction of the Minister. 
It does seem to me that that proposal in the legislation undermines the very principles of the original legislation which was to give the right to Aborigines at least to identify and to have included in the National Estate the sites that they regarded as being of historic importance. Now, paternalistically, this right is to be withdrawn. Aboriginal sites are being discriminated against. Why is there not a provision which precludes the Commission from taking any action under this clause in relation to a place for reasons relating only to the association of the place with the history, cultural beliefs of white Anglo-Saxons? 
The Hope Committee indicated how much of our pre- 1788 National Estate has been destroyed.  Senator Kilgariff  spoke quite feelingly about even the earliest civilisations of Aborigines. We need to consider also that part of the National Estate. This only shows how ineffective existing enactments will be with the adoption of the proposals contained in this legislation, particularly in the Northern Territory. Whilst it may be argued that the States are marginally better off, the record of the States in respect of this initiative leaves very much to be desired. In many cases it can be said that the interest of the States in this matter had been atrocious; it certainly has been behind the times. The record of declaration and protection of sites either by the State or Australian governments has been poor. In 18 years the Australian Government has declared for protection very few of the known sites under its jurisdiction. The situation in the States is typified by this quotation: 
Hundreds of Aboriginal sites are being destroyed annually (in one State alone) by real estate developers both in urban and regional areas, often unknowingly and sometimes with indifference. 
As was freely admitted last year by honourable senators opposite, the National Estate will be preserved only if a new awareness of its importance permeates society at every level and concerned citizens have clearly defined avenues of redress. To prohibit or to restrict any sector of our community from making recommendationsthat is what the provisions of this legislation seek to do- unless they are proved by the Minister is totally against the main purpose of this legislation. I completely support the view expressed by  Senator Bonner  last year when he said- and I quote from his speech: 
 We must not forget that there arc many things which need to be preserved and which were here long before 1788. I hope that the Aboriginal people- the indigenous people of this nation- will have the opportunity to be represented and put forward their point of view in relation to what should be preserved in this nation as the national heritage of the Australian Aborigines. 
Yet, the clause to which I have referred takes away that very right which  Senator Bonner  considered to be an important plank of the original legislation. 
Honourable senators have to accept that the National Estate belongs to all Australians. It is representative of all Australians of diverse, social, economic and multicultural backgrounds. Future generations may well condemn this Parliament if little of our National Estate survives and all that remains of our built environment is a few lucky relics of the ruling class of the day, that is, if in fact this Parliament fails to exercise its jurisdiction in this area. I call upon honourable senators opposite to reconsider the actions of their Government to cut funding. I ask them to consider the effects of the amendment this Bill proposes to the Act and to do so in the sometimes forgotten tradition that the Senate is in fact a House of review. I call upon them to read the amendments that this Bill proposes to the Act, to understand those amendments, and to see that those amendments destroy the very basic principles upon which this Senate unanimously passed the legislation last year. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is he aware of a question asked by  Mr Barnard  of  Mr Garland  on 14 September 1972?  Mr Garland  said the following day: 
All radioactive waste buried at three places in Australia, Monte Bello, Emu and Maralinga, resulted from experiments conducted at those places. 
Is the Minister able to say what radioactive material is buried at those places. What is the lifespan of the material or of the containers in which the material was buried? Has the maintenance of this area been brought to the attention of the Government? What precautions have been taken in the past or are proposed to be taken in the future to ensure that the radioactive waste is not exposed to the atmosphere or interfered with? What measures have been taken to ensure that the full knowledge of the existence of the material is passed from government to government and generation to generation? In view of the Government's decision on the Fox inquiry and the potential danger to the Australian people from the lethal legacy of the past, will the Minister undertake to raise as a matter of urgency with the appropriate Minister the issues I have raised which he may not have had brought to his attention. 
The Senate is debating the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1976 which authorises the Treasurer to advance to the States this financial year the sum of $375m for welfare housing in accordance with the Housing Agreement of 1973-74. This legislation is important because it does provide some recognition, paltry as it is, of the needs of welfare housing. In real terms, taking into account the ravages of unbridled inflation which according to the Lynch Budget when it was presented in August this year is to continue at much the same rate this financial year as existed last year, this sum represents a cutback in the finance made available for welfare housing. If we have regard for the horrendous decision made by the Government on Sunday in respect of devaluation of the Australian dollar and the pressures this will place upon the domestic sector of the economy, particularly in the areas of credit and interest rates, this piece of legislation will prove to be very paltry indeed because in actual money terms it offers a paltry $ 10.4m more than last year or, for the benefit of those on the other side who are prepared to accept any piece of advice their Government may give them, a measly, miserable 3 per cent increase on the amount of money that was available in the last Labor Budget. If that is acceptable to honourable senators opposite all I can say is that they have no understanding of the tremendous pressures that exist within the Australian community in respect of housing assistance for those who are not able for a variety of reasons associated with the development of the Australian economy in the post-war years to save to buy land at the exorbitant price it is, particularly in the capital cities, and to finance the repayments when they build a home upon that land. 
It does seem to the Opposition that the sum of money set out in this legislation which represents such a small proportional increase indicates that the Federal Government is determined not to assist where assistance is most needed. Of course, Madam Acting Deputy President, as you are aware and as we have said so many times in this place, the difference that exists between this 
Government's policies and the policies of the previous Government is the recognition of need as the starting point in all of our social welfare programs. We are aware that the federalism policy to which the Government gives a great deal of emphasis is actually beginning to squeeze the States of funds. In its day to day implementation of this policy, the Government is reducing direct assistance to the States under the shield of what must be regarded as the discredited federalism policy of the Government. The net result for those people waiting for welfare housing is that they will have to wait longer. I remember that when we took office in 1972 there were more people waiting for public or welfare housing than had ever been the case in the history of this country. The Government cannot claim that that position has improved; in fact, it has worsened. Any member of Parliament who does not appreciate the fact that increasing numbers of people are unable to compete in the private sector for housing and therefore have to rely on public or welfare housing does not understand his social responsibilities. 
The Government has indicated by the way in which it has allocated funds for public housing that it will not provide sufficient funds as to enable us to catch up and provide for the housing needs of the Australian people. It prefers to turn back the clock to the disastrous years of 197 1-72 and 1972-73 when previous Liberal-Country Party administrations introduced conservative Budgets. It ignores the present needs and requirements and the endeavours of the Labor Government when in office from 1 972 to 1 975 to satisfy those needs. We make no apology for the fact that we allocated considerably more funds to the States than had conservative governments to make up for the lag which had occurred in the post-war years. 
Let us look at the 1972-73 Budget which was presented by  Mr Snedden  when he was Treasurer in the McMahon Government. That Budget provided for a deficit of $709m. They are not my figures; they are the figures shown in the Budget Papers presented to us in August of this year. It is interesting to compare that Budget deficit of $709m- that was the last Budget of the previous Liberal administration-with the deficit of $293m in the first Labor Budget, which represented a reduction of $4 16m in the deficit. It is worthwhile examining what was done in the field of housing at that time. In that conservative Budget of 1972-73 a total of $243.9m was allocated for housing to the States, and that figure included $ 166.9m allocated by the States for housing under the Loan Council borrowing programs for housing projects similar in nature to those under the 1973 Housing Agreement. That figure has to be compared with the sum of $337m allocated for housing in the first Labor Budget. That Labor Budget reduced the Budget deficit by about two-thirds. 
Yet in its 1973-74 Budget which reduced the deficit, the Labor Government increased spending on housing by more than $93m. That fact alone clearly demonstrates which Party is firmly committed to attempting to provide for the housing needs of the Australian people. The Labor Government reduced considerably the Budget deficit created by the Liberal Government and at the same time allocated considerably more funds to the States for housing than did the Liberal Government. Yet we have been maligned and traduced by Government senators and speakers and a section of the media who have said that we spent too much money in these areas in our years in government. We make no apology for the fact that we increased considerably the amount of money made available for public housing. 
Notwithstanding the fact that we reduced the Budget deficit and provided more funds to meet the needs of the people, particularly for housing, the conservatives in this place brought down the Labor Government. This is evidenced by the now infamous statement made in this place by  Senator Withers  only a few short months after we came to office and before we even had a chance to present our first Budget. He admitted that he had conspired with his colleagues to bring down the Labor Government. The disruptive events of last year were the culmination of that strategy, which is to the everlasting discredit of the conservatives of this country. The cost to Australia, to Australians, to Australian institutions and to the States is a high price to pay for that strategy. It was all done in the name of saving the economy- of reducing the deficit and of bringing down the rate of inflation. Incidentally, they are 2 arguments which were not very heavily used by the conservatives at the time of the double dissolution in 1 974. 
Of course, now we are confronted with devaluation. A fortnight ago devaluation was not on the agenda; there was no chance of it occurring. Reducing inflation was the order of the day. Yet now we are confronted with a decision which shows the infamy of the events of November last year. The failure of the Government's strategy is already evident to large sections of the Australian people. Some people will be convinced that there will be some benefits for Australia as a result of devaluation. I am afraid some people in the rural community believe that it will be the panacea for their problems. They will learn to their bitter regret that it will not solve the problems facing Australian agricultural areas. As has already been pointed out by spokesmen for the manufacturing sector, this latest strategem of the Government may well be too high a price to pay. 
Although the inflation rate was high and there was a deficit, the Budget proposals and the actions taken by this Government have indicated that at best inflation will continue to decline at the same rate that we were already achieving under the previous Labor Party Budgets. All the economists who have been asked to comment on the Government's latest move of devaluing have predicted a further fuelling of the inflation rate. Some say that it will rise by 2 per cent and others say that it will increase by 10 per cent, but the fact is that the rate of inflation will rise as a result of the decision made on Sunday. 
When we talk about this legislation and about Budget deficits, 1 think we have to examine exactly what was the deficit position which was the basis for the events of last year. It shows the hypocrisy of those people who used that issue to obtain power in this country. The estimated Budget deficit of $2,608m about which the Government speaks does not take into consideration the $200m which Telecom Australia has to seek on the local capital market and the estimated $250m obtained by the imposition of the Medibank levy. To its everlasting discredit this chamber refused to approve the legislation which sought to impose that levy when it was before it last year. As  Senator Hall  correctly pointed out, the Senate had an obligation to support that legislation. Of course, so many statements have been made about Medibank that one does not need to do more than refer to the fact that the Government's approach to Medibank is quite unbelievable. It refused the previous Government the right to impose a levy for providing the Medibank service and then it went ahead in this Budget almost to double the amount of the levy. 
Then, of course, the Budget Papers suggest that an estimated $240m will be returned to the Treasury by the wool and wheat industries. If these sums are added to the estimated deficit we find a very close comparison to the Labor Government's deficit last year. It is true that the Labor Government's deficit in 1975 was $3, 585m; but the Liberal-National Country Party Government deficit, on its own figures taken from its own Budget documents, is $3,298m. If we add the $2,608m and the $690m to which I have just referred the present Government's deficit is a mere $287m less than that of the Labor Government. This is not accounting for the post-Budget promises of more money for Aborigines and more money for the dairying industry and other rural industries which require immediate funds to obtain a newer and secure direction. 
Even today at question time we had the rhetorical nonsense of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  when he spoke about last year's deficit. All we are talking about is the relatively small sum of $2 8 7m which will be wiped out as a result of the devaluation decision. Never has so much nonsense been peddled by so few to confuse so many as we have seen by this Government in the brief year that it has been in office. In its fervour to redirect resources from the public sector and to artificially stimulate the private sector, the Fraser Government has created unnecessarily high unemployment. The result of this is that the living standards of all Australians are being reduced and undermined. Of course, the hopeful recovery that the Government promised when it took steps last year to belittle and remove from office a constitutionally elected Government has been deliberately stalled. The Government's rhetoric blames the legitimate rights of the trade union movement to obtain wage increases commensurate with inflation for all its problems. 
Added to that, in recent times there have been demeaning and unprincipled attacks that this Government's leaders have waged upon the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. These people, in the main, were appointees of the previous conservative government. It is they who, having sat in judgment upon the wage claims of the trade union movement, which they are obliged to do, have taken into consideration the evidence and made judicial decisions based on that evidence. Who can say that from time to time the trade unions have not been dissatisfied with the decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? But when the Commission made a decision which displeased this Government, that hypocrite of all hypocrites, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  tore up the message that he received up in the Torres Strait Islands. He did so because he disagreed with the decision of that very authority upon which he has placed so much reliance. This is the great seer, the great knower, the person who stooped to the lowest of all lows in order to gain political power in this country. We have before us the prospect of a government in complete panic with no discernible, reliable economic policy alternative once the Budget strategy fails because of its pigheaded refusal to listen to the warnings given by even some of its own parliamentary colleagues. Honourable senators opposite would not suggest that there are not misgivings about the decisions that have been taken and about the economic policies being pursued. We know quite well that even some of the senior members of previous conservative governments have made certain criticisms. I have listened, as have many members of the general public, to the rising rate of criticism by former Ministers of the economic policies that have been pursued by this Government. 
There is no discernible reason why more money could not have been spent on public housing in order to satisfy the needs of the community and to stimulate the building sector which is in a state of collapse in States such as New South Wales. Are honourable senators opposite prepared to say that a Government dollar spent on housing is inflationary but that a private sector dollar spent on housing is not? Are we to accept this incredible statement by  Mr Newman,  the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, in a newspaper which I do not think anybody in his wildest imagination would accuse of having any slight leaning to the Australian Labor Party. The  Courier-Mail  is notoriously anti-Labor.  Mr Newman  had this to say, as reported in that newspaper, in announcing the Federal Government's proposal: 
The Government wanted fewer houses built. 
This is in today's newspaper. He went on to say: 
Building industry leaders were stunned by the announcement. They said it was a blow to an industry already working below capacity.  1 do not know whether the next statement is true or false: 
Several Liberal backbenchers said they could not understand it. 
That is the sort of pronouncement that is coming from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. He wants fewer houses built. But whom does that help? It certainly does not help the Australian people. It certainly does not help the migrants. It certainly does not help the low income groups, and it certainly does not help the young people. Only those people who have accommodation will profit from fewer houses being built because this will create a market for those who can speculate or who have more than one property to rent. 
We all know the very citical problem of housing that exists in New South Wales.  Mr Fraser  is on record as saying that this is  Mr Wran  's fault. He said that in July only a couple of months after 

 Mr Wran came to office. Last year his excuse was that the problems of housing and unemployment were the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government; therefore, we should get rid of  Mr Whitlam.  Then, when he took power he tried to shift the blame to  Mr Wran  by suggesting that this high rate of unemployment in New South Wales was the fault of the Wran Government. The fact is that 45 per cent of the Australian work force is situated in New South Wales. What ever influences governments may exert in this economic system in which we live, no one in any fair understanding of the problem could suggest that  Mr Wran  would in any way, shape or form be responsible. Heaven's above; the New South Wales election was held only on 1 May and it took the best part of the month before the results were announced. He had no decisions to make. Yet  Mr Fraser  had the temerity to suggest that the problems of New South Wales could be sheeted home to errors of responsibility on the part of a new Labor Government in that State. 
We all know- at least, I have never heard any honourable senator suggest otherwise- that the building industry is at the base of our economic survival and reliance. If the building industry is healthy, so many of the other parts of our economy flourish. If the building industry is functioning properly and is able to satisfy needs, all the other influences that relate to demand and consumer spending on household goods operate. I do not have to quote the words of any authority more appropriate than the words of the Master Builders' Association and the Building Industry Congress. Again, honourable senators would need to knock on many doors before they would find in those organisations people who have any connection with the Australian Labor Party or the trade union movement. They are notoriously anti-Labor and notoriously pro-conservative in their general attitudes. Honourable senators have only to read their pronouncements and the submissions which have been made to this new Minister who has the gall to suggest that we want fewer houses built to know what this attitude is. He has some insane and inane theory that this will help to level out the economic situation in this country. I do not blame  Mr Newman.  After all, he has been in politics for only a short time. Fifteen or so months ago he was not even a member of the Parliament, but he is now paraded before the Parliament and the Australian people and has the responsibility of bringing forward the legislative program. Maybe in time he will come to understand what it is all about. If those statements correctly reflect his attitude then it is certainly to be regretted. 
Every government should accept the fact that the first corollary of any public endeavour should be to see that the people of this country are adequately and properly housed. Yet the absence of an adequate housing policy as part of a credible economic policy is clearly apparent. As in so many other areas, this Government prefers to ignore the real difficulties confronting prospective home owners. It ignores the fact that a majority of the people can no longer afford to buy their own homes, even if they earn the average weekly earnings, which are now in round figures about $185 a week. The statistics show that 70 per cent of the people of Australia do not even earn the average weekly earnings. The great bulk of those who want to own their own homes cannot meet the repayment conditions of the permanent building societies and the other private housing organisations for a housing loan. So they are forced into the area of having to be considered by the various State housing authorities in Australia. 
The argument that increased wages have caused inflation and that the previous Labor Government is somehow to blame for an economic system which can no longer provide for the housing needs of the community does not stand close inspection. If wage and salary earners are not earning sufficient to enable them to qualify for housing loans from the lending authorities, which is the position, the only course of action available to them is to get more money. We all know that there are those within the Australian community who say that there should be 2 incomes in a family in order to overcome the shortage of funds in that regard. We all know also that there are many people in the community who have grave doubts about whether that is a legitimate way in which to solve this problem and who feel that there are social and economic consequences flowing from that. We reached the point in my Party a couple of years ago where we were discussing whether zero population growth was a good or desirable objective. Irrespective of whether we supported it, it has come about and it has come about principally because of the prevailing economic conditions in this country. 
Seventy per cent of the Australian work force cannot meet the requirements of the lending authorities and provide their own private needs for accommodation. That is a lot of people. It is a hell of a lot of people. The only way in which they can have their needs satisfied is through the housing authorities and with public funds. There is no way in which they can be enticed into the home ownership area if they cannot come within the housing authorities organised by the States, which have to be funded by the Australian Government. Of course, the biggest single factor that militates against anybody getting off the ground in respect of housing in Australia is the high cost of land. What did the Labor Government seek to do in this respect? It set out to establish land commissions. To his eternal credit, Tom Uren went from State to State negotiating in this respect. Fancy having to deal with mavericks like Court and Bjelke-Petersen! Fancy having to convince those sorts of characters about anything that was being done by the Australian Government? Even Malcolm Fraser has given up trying to convince Bjelke-Petersen. Yet Tom Uren spent the best part of his  Vh  years in that position getting complete agreement with the 6 State Premiers on the establishment of land commissions and he finally succeeded. 
The cost of land is at the heart and the crux of the problem. Unless one has the wherewithal to provide funds to buy a block of land it is no good talking about lending money for the building of homes by one 's own efforts. Honourable senators opposite stand for the private sector. They are shaking their heads. Obviously they have no understanding of how the great majority of the people of Australia live. The great majority of the people of Australia, who live in Sydney and Melbourne, cannot satisfy their needs from their own efforts because of the cost of land. Yet honourable senators opposite did everything within their power, both in the national Parliament and in the States, to frustrate the attempts of the Australian Government to move into the land area by the establishment of land commissions and thereby reduce the land cost component of providing accommodation. Fortunately we finally obtained agreement. 
The present Labor Government in New South Wales is going to be very much on the right side of the ledger because something like $90m was spent by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales, when it finally became convinced of the need to do so at a State level, on acquiring land in and around Sydney. What a bonanza for  Mr Wran!  Ultimately that will play a vital part in satisfying the housing needs of people in New South Wales, providing the inflation problem is surmounted, which is doubtful in view of the decision that the Government has taken in the last couple of days. When are honourable senators opposite going to start thinking for themselves and not rely upon the infamous four at the top to make all of the decisions for them? Inflation is going to increase as a result of that decision and it is going to take still more people- thousands and thousandsaway from the possibility of satisfying their needs in the private sector. I have said that there were 49 000 people on the housing list in New South Wales in 1972. That figure will rise to 60 000 or 70 000 people. The only way in which those people are going to be able to solve their housing problems is through the activities of the Housing Commission in New South Wales. 
If one examines the cost of land between the years 1950 and 1970 and compares it with the increase in the average weekly earnings for the same period one will find that the cost of land actually rose 3V4 times faster than the average weekly earnings. I do not know whether honourable senators opposite will accept those figures. 
If the honourable senator's processes of understanding are so bad it is his fault and not mine. I have been referring to figures taken from the records of the war service homes sector, which were the only records kept at the time. Of course, they were for years in which a Liberal-Country Party Government was in office- 1950 to 1970. If one takes into consideration the period between 1970 and 1973 one will see that the price of land in the fringe areas of Sydney, which is where the problem is at its greatest in Australia, rose  5lA  times faster than the average weekly earnings. Of course, all that leads to is a greater dependence upon public housing.  Mr President,  you would agree with me that the efforts of the South Australian Housing Trust under the government which I think you might have served- the Playford Governmentwere a monument to State government enterprise and activity. I have looked at the various enterprises which the Playford Government, to its credit, initiated and which have been continued by the Dunstan Labor Government. 
Of course, in the period to which I have been referring the speculators made a quick dollar and they made it at the expense of their fellow Australians. Shame upon them that they should exploit a commodity in short supply in order to make a quick dollar. In doing so they exploited those whose only interest was in providing themselves with housing. Those people who did that operated against the national interest and against the interests of most Australians. 
It is also against the national interest to blame the working people of Australia for trying to keep up the real spending power of the fruits of their labour. They do not obtain a quick quid or a quick dollar. They were and are the victims of the avarice of those who prefer to exploit the many weaknesses in the market system rather than to do an honest day's work for an honest day's pay. As one who spent many years in local government in a fast developing area, I can tell honourable senators of the fortunes that were made by the private speculators in land. It is a great pity that the conservatives governments did not take the initiative to establish land commissions in the mid-1950s when what was happening in Australia became apparent. 
In Australia we have reached the stage where unless direct measures are taken few people, and fewer people, will be able to achieve home ownership in their lifetime. I have indicated how much faster the cost of land has risen than have average weekly earnings, which heaven only knows have risen too fast. If the total cost of obtaining housing is taken into consideration, the picture is even more bleak. Unless mortgage interest rates charged by savings banks and permanent building societies drop, the escalating costs of homes will push even a modest home beyond the reach of average and middle income earners and will continue to make it impossible for the people earning less to find the means to house themselves. The latest economic decision made by this Government will make it more difficult, according to all of the orthodox economists and the Treasury advice, for what it is worth. Honourable senators opposite may laugh as much as they like; but, according to all the people to whom they listen- the orthodox economists and the Treasury officials- interest rates inevitably will go up and not down, despite the fact that they made it part of their platform that interest rates would be reduced. 
The Australian Labor Party makes no apology for the fact that it directed most of its efforts to assisting the 70 per cent of the population earning up to 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. In the last 2 years of the Labor Government's term in office an average yearly amount of $375m was made available in this area- considerably in excess of what is provided for welfare housing in this Budget. This is not to say that problems do not exist for those earning between 95 per cent and 135 per cent of average weekly earnings. We agree that there are major problems in that area too; that in that middle group there are people who need special assistance to provide for their own needs. The more people can be encouraged to provide for their own housing needs, the less they have to depend completely upon the public sector. But the problem of these people is related also to servicing a loan and in some instances to bridging the deposit gap. Of course we took some initiatives in this area, which have been discontinued by this Government, in respect of mortgage repayments being related to a tax concession. Undoubtedly the biggest single factor affecting housing in Australia is servicing the loan. 
Whilst the Opposition will not oppose this Bill, unfortunately we must draw attention to the fact that it does very little to alleviate the growing social problem of housing in Australia. All we can hope is that somehow, by some Minister or some back benchers, some decisions will be taken by this Government which again will allocate to welfare and public housing the sort of funds necessary to enable the ordinary, average Australian to participate in a reasonable housing scheme. We hope that enlightenment finally will dawn upon this Government, that it will cast aside the philosophy it has that public spending is anathema to the development of Australia, and that it will really look at the social problems facing an ever-increasing number of Australians and ultimately will allocate sufficient funds to see that all Australians are afforded equal opportunity to live in the home of their choice. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The petition of certain parents and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we, the undersigned, declare that we are concerned at the increasingly alarming child care situation, where only one place is available for every ten pre-school children and where, in NSW, only 1 84 out of the 89 1 child care centres in existence offer Long Day Care for the children of working mothers, despite the changing socio-economic conditions in Australia and the increased numbers of working mother. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that you make funds available urgently for Long Day Care Centres and that all funds allocated for child care be directed only to those child care centres willing to provide long day care, preschool and after-school care, holiday care and emergency day care for children. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Opposition does not intend to oppose the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill 1976 which is before the Senate. The Bill seeks to extend the fruit growing reconstruction scheme until 31 December. So those fruit growers who wish to take advantage of the scheme have 29 days in which to lodge their applications for the consideration of the authorities. Payments will be made to 30 June 1977. The legislation arises as a result of specific applications made by the governments of Victoria and South Australia for additional funds. The purpose of the legislation is to provide an additional $ 1 m to assist in the removal of canning fruit trees in those 2 States. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in discussions with the Premiers of those 2 States accepted the proposal because he became aware of the very severe over supply position that exists in the canning fruit industry in those States. 
The Opposition wants to draw the attention of the Senate to the very parlous state and the very difficult conditions that the industry continues to face. In terms of the overall agricultural scene in Australia the industry is regarded, I suppose, as one of the smaller areas. Nevertheless, there are some 37 000 horticulturists involved in the fruit and vegetable industry in this country, and they do contribute something like $500m annually to the nation's income. So the need to maintain this industry does not need to be stressed either by the Opposition or by the Government. It has become apparent for quite some time that the industry has reached a certain critical point. In fact, the Australian Canning Fruit Growers Association held its 51st annual conference just a month ago in Shepparton, Victoria. The report of that conference sets out the extent to which canning fruit tree removals have taken place since 1971. It is quite revealing to find that, on the basis of 250 trees to the hectare, some 7702 hectares of peach trees have been pulled, for which assistance has been granted under the scheme. Some 5696 hectares of pear trees and 1889 hectares of apricot trees have also been removed. So obviously the scheme has been operating for a considerable period. Despite that fact we are still in an over supply situation, which arises primarily because of the collapse of overseas markets in an industry which is geared now, I suppose, primarily for the domestic market. 
In those circumstances, we support the Bill because we believe it is correct that the Australian Government, being responsible for exports, should take financial responsibility for its constitutional responsibility in relation to this matter. For that matter, any collapse of markets which would affect the economic wellbeing of people is the responsibility of the Government in the social security area. 
The rural reconstruction schemes are designed to attempt to align Australian rural industries and Australian rural production with the markets available. As most of the crises in agricultural industries arise from loss of export markets, it has become more and more imperative that the Australian Government give financial support to the States in meeting that responsibility. I think we are entitled to say that the new federalism policy must not be used as a means of passing on increased financial responsibility to the States for rural reconstruction. That point has been made not only by State government Ministers of my political persuasion but also by all of the Premiers at various meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council. They have said that the export component is now the critical part of agricultural production. In those circumstances it should not be the financial responsibility of the States to finance rural reconstruction, because the export component is a national component and a national responsibility. 
The Australian Government has not provided for the fruit growing industry any sort of long term plan for recovery. As one reads reports from the various sectors of our fruit growing industry it becomes clear that there are a lot of misgivings about the future of the industry. When one reads the Industries Assistance Commission report one can understand the reasons why there is growing concern about the future of the industry, having regard to the international market position. It is regretted therefore- I think we are entitled to make this comment- that the interim initiatives which the Labor Government began and which this Government has continued are to be regarded only as interim initatives. The direction of the industry after the expiration of the 1976 scheme which we are discussing has not yet been determined. Surely we are entitled to say to the Government that it has had a year in which to look at the nature of the problem and to accept the IAC recommendations, or amend them or reject them; but certainly it should come up with a plan for some stability m this important industry. 
The extent of the contraction of the industry which this legislation is designed to accommodate will be determined at a later date. There is no certainty that the market conditions for fruit will improve next year. If we could be assured that the market position internationally would improve then we could probably regard this as an interim measure. However, all of the forecasts, all of the estimates, indicate that we have reached that point in the fruit growing industry in Australia where the overseas position does not look as though it is going to afford any relief to the industry. It may well be that further funds will be necessary to accelerate reconstruction under this scheme next year. Members of the Government parties who have had any connection with the industry must surely agree with me when I say that a very critical situation exists in some of our fruit growing regions in Australia. 
Tasmania, for example,, which is export oriented, receives 40 per cent to 60 per cent of its annual income, depending upon the income for a particular year, from agriculture. So that sector of agriculture contributes almost half of the 
State's income. A similar situation applies in Western Australia and Victoria where the export component is a very important part of the industry's survival syndrome. There is no certainty that the market situation can be expected to improve, notwithstanding the mammoth devaluation of  1Vi  per cent. Those in the rural community who believe that devaluation is the panacea, that it will be the miracle that will bring about stability in agriculture, look for simple solutions and seek to ignore the principal factor so far as this sector of agriculture is concerned. It is not the price of the article but the access to the markets that represents the threat to the industry. In fact, if we were to give the fruit away we would not solve the problem because it is the trade barriers and the protection policies that are being pursued in our former markets overseas that are denying us access. It is not the cost of the article. So I am afraid that little relief for this industry will arise out of devaluation. 
I think, though, that there might be a glimmer of hope for the canning industry if the Government exercises its powers to restrict imports from overseas countries. There is no doubt that imports will now rise as a result of devaluation. I have asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  on several occasions, as he well knows- I have had such a request from Western Australia in the last few days- that the Government take some steps to restrict the import of canned fruit and vegetables from overseas. It may well be that the mechanism can now be applied more judiciously and expeditiously in order to give a little bit of relief to our own canned fruit industry. 
Additional freight charges have to be considered. It seems to me that they would operate to reduce the benefits that the reduction in the value of the Australian dollar achieves in spite of the price of our exports and in addition to the access of the markets to which I was referring. Clearly overseas markets are closed or restricted for reasons other than the price of the goods. As we have said so many times, the European Common Market has had a tremendous effect upon many sectors of our agricultural economy. The restriction of access of our beef, for example, to the United States, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines and Canada is a more recent example of the fact that it is not so much the price factor that affects us as the decision made domestically within other countries to protect their own domestic production. I digress for a moment to refer to beef. We have had questions and discussion and public comment about the dumping of beef on the United States market. I think that indicates to us that it has not been the price that has been the consideration. 
The tragedy of our rural reconstruction scheme which we are considering is that whilst it adequately rationalises the market forces operating and logically comes to the conclusion that there must be a tailoring of production to stabilise markets, it does not provide many options for fruit growers who decide to avail themselves of the scheme. It is incumbent, I believe, therefore that any scheme of this sort which is put into operation be oriented more towards people. By this I mean more than the distinction often applied by the Industries Assistance Commission between 'product oriented ' and 'people oriented '. 
I do not wish to ally myself with the general criticism that has been applied to the IAC, but I believe it ought to put a little more stress on the needs of people. I am obliged to  Senator Wright  for the interjection he made when we were debating some of these matters in the autumn session. He said that we have to have some regard for the local people involved in a particular industry. The more I have looked at this, the more I have come to the conclusion that we have to look at the social consequences as well as the economic consequences in rural reconstruction. If we apply only the criterion of efficiency, we will do so at the expense of the human factor. Whilst it cannot be denied that the IAC is correct in condemning product-based assistance in a situation where over-production is the problem, this should not be interpreted as being against product-based assistance where lack of production is the problem. It is also true that schemes designed to assist people, such as the tree pull scheme, are infinitely better than product-based assistance and are to be applauded. Those Government members who from time to time have criticised the Labor Government's initiative in this area ought to reexamine their attitude as to whether we were more concerned with taking away the bounties and subsidies that were related to the product and to production. 
However, criticism of the latter approach is not in regard to the direction it took but that it did not go far enough. If there is to be peopleoriented assistance- I am sure all honourable senators would agree with that emphasis- I believe the options made available to people who decide to leave the industry should be made clear and, where possible, increased. We must seek, therefore, to pay greater regard to the human factor in our consideration of these matters. Quite plainly, if people are to be restructured out of this industry, they want to know where to go, what is to be their future, what their opportunities are and what options are available to them. I would not like to be in a position of trying to advise fruit growers where their economic future is in this country. I certainly would not want to put them into the boot industry, or the textile industry or the shipbuilding industry, or the motor car industry. I certainly would not want to put any of them into the beef industry. It seems to me that a lot more thought needs to be given to those people who will be seeking to leave the industry, so that they will have some meaningful part to play in the whole of the social and economic life of our country. So for the assistance to be truly people oriented, it must continue to the point where people are placed in a viable alternative means of earning a living, and earning a living that has some purpose for them. 
The acute problems of certain fruit growing areas highlight the need to tailor assistance programs to prevent the very social fabric of those areas from collapsing. That is happening in some of our fruit growing regions. The social fabric, the rural infrastructure, is at risk. These are matters which surely must concern not only those of us in the Parliament but the community generally. Certainly those in the rural communities who see families leaving districts and who see families leaving a particular industry must be concerned with the effects that that decline has upon the hopes and aspirations of the people within that particular region. On 12 August a sub-committee of Government members dealt with horticultural matters. Growers representatives attended that meeting here in Parliament House at the beginning of this session, and it was clear that there was a need for a greater understanding and for more initiatives to be taken by the authorities. Growers representatives made the point on that occasion that, from the canning point of view, they needed some government assistance in regard to imports coming to Australia. 
To rely solely on the market place as a means of determining whether an industry is to be viable in a certain area is to sign a death warrant for certain rural districts. I think the IAC has expressed this concept in a somewhat different way. In its examination of rural problems, it stated: 
Market forces left to themselves can seriously undermine the confidence by farmers and other sectors of the economy with which they are linked. 
More and more producers, as well as consumers, are totally disenchanted with the operation of the market system, or with the market place for that matter, which neither gives an adequate return to producers nor distributes at a reasonable price to consumers. It is crazy that growers are being subsidised to pull out fruit growing trees; yet simultaneously because of high prices fruit is not available to those very sectors of the Australian community most in need. I refer to those on lower incomes, pensioners, large families and others who are not able to buy the quantity of fruit that otherwise would be available. I believe that domestic sales are sluggish around the 3 million basic carton level, partly because there is a consumer resistance to the price tag on apples and pears. I remember, when returning from a visit to some of the fruit growing areas during the last winter recess, drawing my family's attention to the fact that farmers were not even bothering to remove the fruit from the trees when families were paying 10c, 12c or 14c each for apples and pears. It is crazy that it does not pay the grower to pick his apples; yet in the market place there is a buyer resistance based on the price. I am sure that if fruit were cheaper there would be at least some benefit to the producer because there would be more consumption in the Australian community. 
The Opposition supports the Bill but cannot ignore the fact that it runs contrary to the apple and pear stabilisation scheme which is production based and therefore encourages production by guaranteeing a payment of $2 a bushel. It is interesting to see in one of the reports that in the last year there was a drop of approximately 30 per cent in the number of cases of apples and pears exported. We require an integrated strategy and a policy which does not contradict itself. Unfortunately, there is no such co-ordinated policy in the fruit growing industry. The Government has made no effort to initiate a co-ordinated policy for the fruit growing industry which will place the industry on the road to a stable recovery. The lack of co-ordination at the national level is illustrated by the Government's contradictory policy thrusts. 
We should be examining the distribution and transportation costs in respect of the fruit growing industry. I have been able to see only one set of figures that would help us in this direction. I have no criticism to make of the Government's freight equalisation scheme which is being applied to Tasmania and which undoubtedly will assist Tasmanian fruit growers in gaining competitive access to the mainland domestic market. This has been introduced to help the Tasmanian fruit industry. If one listens to the comments being made by the fruit growers and fruit grower organisations in Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales, particularly in Queensland and 
New South Wales, one can appreciate the concern that is being expressed by these organisations. If there is to be a utilisation of this subsidy scheme, it will affect the domestic marketing of those who hitherto have had complete access to the domestic market for their products. I am advised that growers in Tasmania are taking advantage of the freight equalisation scheme in order to sell their products on the mainland market. I will make no comment upon their desirability to do so. 
It may well wreck the mainland market, as the honourable senator said. I am sure that as a Queensland senator he probably has received representations, as I have, about this very problem. In the northern and southern parts of Tasmania there is a substantial degree of subsidisation. On fruit carried in refrigerated containers the subsidy is $20 per cubic metre for fruit to go to Victoria, $25 for fruit to go to South Australia and Western Australia, and $28 for fruit to go to all the other States. For unrefrigerated containers the subsidy is $ 1 4 per cubic metre for fruit going to Victoria, $20 for fruit going to South Australia and Western Australia, and $24 for fruit going to the other States. I think this highlights the need for a rational policy. Whilst we should not be seeking to deny the Tasmanian growers some stability in their production and distribution, it must not be done in a way which completely destroys the marketing ability and stability of the growers in the mainland areas. 
The honourable senator says that it is nonsense. It is a question of how the scheme is applied. If it means an unlimited dumping of fruit, then of course problems will be created. If a rational approach is made so that both sectors- the domestic market and the export oriented market- are given access to the markets in the mainland States, there may be a share for all. I am referring to the representations made to me by the mainland fruit growers. If honourable senators opposite say that that is nonsense, I will let the fruit growers know that that is the way they approach the problem. It is the responsibility of the organisations and the Government to find an equitable alternative solution which will not entail the setting of one sector of the industry against another. That is what is developing. Uniform State legislation, particularly in the area of marketing, could prevent the conflicts between States which will take place if there is no understanding. 
This applies even to the dairy industry. If the Victorian milk producers gain access to the market in New South Wales or Queensland, I can assure the Senate that the New South Wales Government will show that it is able to talk just as loudly as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  talks about protecting his domestic situation. It is a matter of rationalising the distribution in such a way that nobody has absolute access and an advantage over anybody else. I am assured that movements are taking place which affect the particular areas to which I have referred. This legislation specifically seeks to give assistance to the Victorian and South Australian governments on the basis of the problem that exists in those States. 
It is to be hoped that the Government will endeavour to plan on a national basis and on a constructive basis, and not take the easy way out by adopting  ad hoc,  piecemeal, social welfare measures which only facilitate fruit growers leaving the industry after they have lost their war against poverty without offering them an alternative other than to join the ranks of the unemployed in the outer metropolitan areas of our capital cities. The continued loss of people from rural districts and towns has been occurring for more than a quarter of a century. When the Labor Government was in office it identified the problem and attempted, through its decentralisation and regional development programs, to prevent this from happening. We believe that is a matter which would devalue the quality of life and is against the best interests of both the rural folk and the urban folk. 
I have indicated that the very fabric of society in many fruit growing districts is now threatened by depressed market situations and by adoption of a tree pull scheme without assessment, and ultimately determination, of what happens to the people forced to leave the area and the effects, other than economic, on those remaining. That has to be taken into consideration in reconstruction schemes. The Industries Assistance Commission has recommended the setting up of area redevelopment authorities in apple and pear growing regions of the south-west of Western Australia, southern Tasmania and the Stanthorpe region of Queensland, and that feasibility studies be carried out to determine the nature and extent of these authorities. It is clear that special problems of certain areas need specialised solutions. This Government's whole philosophical position is to allow the market place to determine the demise of these districts and largely to ignore the poverty problems involved. For many fruitgrowers in these districts there is no payment for an honest day's work for reasons which are totally outside of their control. Of course, the Henderson poverty report refers to the fact that it is in the fruit growing areas where the greatest poverty exists in the non-urban regions of Australia. It is unconscionable for governments to stand by and take the easy way out by giving piecemeal assistance from time to time. 
I shall conclude by quoting from a Press report of 1 December 1975. The report in the Hobart Mercury relates to the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  It states: 
Tasmania's rural industries are facing grave conditions which could worsen in the near future unless urgent action is taken. 
I refer only to the Hoban situation. He made many other statements at the time which referred to other regions in Australia. 
The report continues: 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  said at Launceston on Saturday he was deeply concerned at the position which he said had been caused by the failure of the Labor Government to take remedial action during the past 3 years. 
He is reported further as stating: 
As the Minister for Agriculture, I can assure you that on election to Government on December 13, 1 will ensure that priority will be given to the problems of the fruit industry and strong representations will be made overseas on behalf of Australia's apple producers. 
I have already given to the Senate the fact that the 1976 export of apples and pears is down by almost 1 million boxes. It is all right for us to engage in rhetoric and to use quotes about what we have said from time to time, what we stand for and what our policies are. So far as this legislation is concerned, obviously we could not be put in a position where we would oppose any agreement reached between the Australian Government and the States, but we believe that the time has arrived for the Government to come up with a rational policy that will take into consideration the economic and human aspirations of those people who are affected by conditions outside their control. 
The Senate is considering a very important piece of legislation, the States Grants (Beef Industry) Amendment Bill. The Opposition will not oppose this legislation. The purpose of the Bill is to provide continued short term assistance for beef cattle producers. However, before I refer to the Bill itself I should like to make some brief comments. I will exempt from my remarks the Minister in charge of the Bills that the Senate is debating this afternoon, the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  It seems to me that he has attempted to come to grips with the problem to some extent and with the manner in which the Opposition is endeavouring to approach the serious problems which are the subject of the Bills being debated in the Senate. I hope I am wrong in coming to this conclusion but it seems to me that there is a tendency to believe that the Opposition is involved in some sort of time wasting exercise. It is accused of procrastinating and engaging in some sort of humbug in respect to legislation before the Parliament. I detect a certain frivolity and arrogance in some honourable senators opposite who appear to take the view that the task of the Senate is to pass Bills without any critical comment. 
I believe that the Opposition in supporting the great majority of the Bills before the Parliament relating to agriculture understands the problems facing the rural sector. It ill behoves those who believe that because we want to exercise our rightful and constitutional prerogative of adequately debating Bills and drawing attention to what we consider to be the deficiencies of the Government and its inability to comprehend the total picture.  Senator Cotton  made a bipartisan reference to this when summing up the second reading debate on the previous Bill- the role of the Opposition should be to follow meekly in the wake of the Government. When we do not oppose legislation this does not mean that we should not exercise our right to examine it and give the ideological or philosophical reasons why we criticise the Government's approach to it. When the Labor Government was in office for 3 years- it was 3 years in the period from 1949 to 1975- honourable senators opposite who were then in Opposition, such as the tate  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright,  would speak on legislation six and eight times a day for half an hour or an hour at a time. I exempt some of the newer senators from this criticism because they probably do not know of the tortures and ordeals to which we were subjected. Yet when we wish to exercise legitimately the role of examining government legislation we are regarded as being time wasting and involved in the exercise of humbug. It is thought that we should pack up and go home. That is just not what we are about. 
We believe- I am speaking on behalf of a considerable number of members of my Party- that we have a role to play in the Parliament. It is one of the few forums available to us in order to criticise what we consider to be the inept way in which government legislation is being placed before the Parliament. I refer specifically to agriculture. We are now past the half-century mark in respect to agricultural Bills. This applies to me personally as shadow Minister for Agriculture. In the great majority of cases the Government's agricultural policies are the continuation of initiatives taken by previous governments or the Labor Government. By 'previous governments' I refer to previous conservative governments. Agricultural problems today are manifestly stronger and greater than they were when those interim measures were taken in the 1960s and 1 970s by the respective governments. I assure the Senate that we are not here for the purpose of wasting time. We are here because it affords us an opportunity to draw attention, as we have an obligation to do, to what we consider to be deficiencies in legislation. 
This piece of legislation enables the Australian Government to provide $1 5m on a $1 for $1 basis with State funds approved for lending in the next financial year under the beef carry-on loans scheme, a scheme which has been extended from year to year. Beef producers have indicated to me their utter dismay that there has been a cutback in funds allocated to assist their industry in the first Lynch Budget. From discussions I am having with farmer leaders, it is clear that they are looking for more fundamental legislation and a more fundamental examination of the problems than a continuation of initiatives of the past. Last year the Labor Budget provided $ 19.6m under this very scheme. Yet only $ 12.3m was taken up. It should be borne in mind that our Budget which was presented in August of last year did not receive the assent of this place of humbug until 11 November. Therefore the responsibility for allocating and spending the $ 19.6m which the Labor Government made available in the 1975-76 Budget rested with this Government. During the period from 1 1 November when Australia had an interim government, through the period of the elections, to 30 June 1976 this Government which claims to speak on behalf of agriculture and on behalf of beef producers did not spend the total allocation of money available to it in the Budget. It applied its philosophical dogma that there should be a cutback in public funds. 
This Bill permits the allocation to beef producers of the balance of that sum plus $15m. It might be said that in the long term the beef producers will not lose very much- they will receive, in money terms, only $4.6m less than the amount we allocated in the last Whitlam Budget. Of course, the seasonally adjusted figure would be something more than that. In other words, the Government has decided to continue the previous Labor Government's short-term assistance to the beef industry. Surely it cannot be argued that during those tempestuous years when we were in office we could have carried out the fundamental examination that was needed in the beef industry as, indeed, is needed in all the other crisis industries of Australian agriculture. I am sure that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  will agree with me that we are in an impossible position in respect of the dairy, beef and fruit industries. It may be that the beef industry is better placed than the other 2 industries. If only those industries could be as optimistic about the future and as buoyant as the wheat, wool and sugar industries are! 
I think that at least some credit ought to be given to the previous Labor Government of the time. We very rarely receive any credit for the fact that we set in motion the Industries Assistance Commission, which examines the various sectors of the Australian economy that were and are sick. Do not let any honourable senator tell me that a chronic sickness is not facing the rural and manufacturing industries. One only has to read the Jackson report, the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission in respect of different sectors of manufacturing industry and the voluminous reports that are now available in respect of agriculture to appreciate the very grave structural problems that exist in those industries. 
I agree entirely with the comments made by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in winding up the debate on the States Grant (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill, that only with an understanding by the Australian community and an acceptance by all political parties will we be able to tackle these fundamental problems that are facing sectors of industry and to restructure industries where necessary. Great changes have come across the horizon as far as our industries are concerned. The evolution has reached a point where an epoch has come to an end and we must adopt a whole new approach if these industries are to survive and have any hope in the present and in the future. 
The Minister said in the other place, in summing up the debate on the Bill- I find it incomprehensible that a Minister of the Crown could make such a statement: 
More money is being allocated to the beef industry than has been allocated by any previous government. 
This claim is false; it is wrong; and it is a lie. It certainly is not fooling the beef producers or the farmers. I ask honourable senators to examine what the Minister said in the other place and to consider what was said in the Budget Speech, particularly what is recorded on page 80 of the Budget Speech. The Minister can use all the rhetoric he likes when he addresses farmers but I think that when he presents the Parliament with a responsible document he ought to be factual and correct. At page 80 of the Budget Speech, under the heading of 'Cattle, Sheep and Pig Meat Industry', the following is stated: 
In 1975-76 the Commonwealth undertook to provide up to $ 19.6m under the  States Grams (Beef Industry) Act  to match State contributions for a joint scheme to provide carry-on finance at concessional rates of interest to specialist beet producers who, while judged to be viable under normal market conditions, lacked finance and were unable to obtain carry-on funds from normal sources. The actual amount provided in 1975-76 was $ 11.3m. The scheme has been extended and the Commonwealth has agreed to provide up to $ 1 5m for the scheme in 1 976-77. 
But the fact is that in the 1975-76 Estimates and the Budget which was approved $ 19.6m was allocated. What was spent was the responsibility of the Treasurer or of the Minister for Primary Industry- certainly it was the responsibility of the Government. Last year when in opposition  Mr Sinclair  claimed that the $39.6m that was allocated by the Labor Government, comprising the $ 19.6m under the scheme to which I have just referred and $20m made available to producers at commercial rates of interest through the Commonwealth Development Bank, was inadequate. 
Let us consider the irresponsible attitude of the Minister for Primary Industry. I bear no personal malice in these matters because the Minister for Primary Industry has made available to me the full resources of his Department and I am grateful for this co-operation. But I am concerned about the way in which he publicly presents the position of himself, his Party and, subsequently, his Government. I shall read from a copy of a Press statement by the Minister, a copy of which was made available to all honourable senators. It is headed 'Beef Crisis is a Social and Economic Crisis (Extracts from a speech given by the  Deputy  Leader National Country Party, Ian Sinclair, at a public meeting, Wangaratta, 5th September, 1975)' and states: 
The time is rapidly passing for the Australian Government to take action to relieve the position of the beef industry', the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair  said today. 
Speaking to a public meeting at Wangaratta  Mr Sinclair  said: 
The economic problems facing the beef industry are generating grave social problems for the families of beef producers and their employees. 
These social problems will become more pronounced as long as the Government fails to act to assist the industry. 
The total failure to act will bring down on Australia not only an economic tragedy but also a widespread, lingering social tragedy. 
The basic fact needs to be recognised by the Government 
Of course, he was referring to the Labor Government. The Press statement continues: 
Up until now the Labor Government has chosen to callously disregard the position of the beef industry and its problems-even though, only a few years ago, it was Australia 's major export earning industry. 
I have the distinct impression that the Labor Government couldn't give a damn if the beef industry totally disappeared. 
The Government must reverse its attitude of doing as little as possible to assist the beef industry.' 
Surely honourable senators cannot accept that those sorts of statements represent anything more than rhetoric, humbug and misrepresentation when this legislation which is before us and which we support will, in fact, reduce the Government's allocation of funds from $ 19.6m, which was criticised when we were in government as not being enough, to $15m. It is a year since this Government came to office. That year has been one of the worst years for Australian agriculture since the Liberal Party and National Country Party were previously in office during the rural recession of the 1 960s and early 1 970s. 
If the forecast of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics proves accurate, next year we will see a major drop in real farm incomes. The Bureau projected before devaluation a drop of 36 per cent in incomes in the rural sector of industry. It has now adjusted that figure to take into account the devaluation and projects a drop of 2 1 per cent. Certainly beef producers are entitled to be concerned about their problem when the income of a very large section of the Australian rural scene is dropping alarmingly as a result of the problems of export markets. The Government's response to this is to give reduced short term assistance to producers, to adopt an interim measure, and to carry on that which had been begun and which, if it is to be carried on, in no way represents a tackling of the basic problems facing the industry. Unfortunately, more producers will be requiring assistance but less assistance will be available. In the words of the Minister for Primary Industry, 'the Government's continued acts of attrition against rural industry, cloaked this time', in that great illogicality that we have, 'as an attempt to control inflation', more than anything else and to cut back public spending more than anything else, 'erode the ability of many rural areas to survive; adding to this problem is the fact that unemployment is highest in rural areas '. I do not think any honourable senator can be but concerned at that situation. 
The Minister was then adequately expressing his Government's policy towards rural Australia, although at the time the words to which I have referred were used they were directed against the Labor Government. Those words will be remembered for a long time to come. They were words which attempted to suggest that it was as a result of a deficiency on the part of the Labor Government that export markets had changed and that there was a continuing decline in the beef industry. Now, one year after this Government came to office, instead of living up to its promises to the electorate it has failed miserably. There is no revival, more unemployment, a larger deficit and more overseas borrowing, and inflation is substantially the same and may well increase despite the steps taken on the devaluation front. So I am suggesting to the Government that in using plain rhetoric to fight inflation it will not make any headway and that in the process of cutting back public spending it is slashing financial assistance to the rural sector to such a degree that the rural sector is receiving less funds from government than ever before. In fact $25m comes in from the rural sector to the national income. 
The failure of the Government in the international market place has been disastrous for our export-oriented beef industry. The problem is in the way our industry has developed and this is why structural problems have to be faced by governments, Opposition parties and communities alike. There are sectors of our beef industry which are totally dependent upon export markets and if those markets change or are denied completely to us those sectors have very little chance of adjusting to the new circumstances. So the failure of the Government in the international market place is disastrous. Yet when they were in Opposition the Liberal and National Country Parties, against the national interest I believe, torpedoed the tactics of the Hayden Budget and hypocritically tried to maintain the general thrust of that strategy after the damage had been done. The Lynch Budget and the miserable efforts of this Government to maintain our overseas beef export markets have torpedoed the beef industry in Australia.  Mr Sinclair  and the gang of four who have been running the economic affairs of our country have claimed that this Liberal-National Country Party Government enjoys a special relationship with our major trading partners. In the  Mercury  of 26 September last year  Mr Sinclair  is reported as saying that the then Opposition 'could find better government to government accord than Labor has done in the agricultural marketing area'. They are pious words. Now that it is in government its performance speaks for itself. 
Without notification we learn by listening to the news in the morning or by picking up a newspaper that government after government is concerning itself with its internal domestic situation. Firstly, there was the United States, then Canada, then the Philippines and then Japan. They arbitrarily placed restrictions on our beef entering their domestic markets. When Japan made its announcement, we know what the response was from  Mr Sinclair.  I know that he said it for National Country Party propaganda purposes when he made the statement that it would be difficult for the Government not to take into account Japan's decision to cut beef imports from Australia when considering an extension of the fisheries agreement between the 2 countries. Are we in a position to wield the big stick at our major trading country? Is that the way to conduct trade negotiations or to solve the problems facing the beef producers? If one is to take this statement seriously, it could have serious repercussions on our trading relationship with that country. I remind the Senate that in dollar terms we export almost twice as much to Japan as we import from Japan. So how are we in a position to start making threats. 
We have to recognise the limitations that governments have in these areas of trade relationships when governments overseas want to make decisions. If we accept that as a principle, we should cut out all this nonsensical propaganda from National Country Party leaders suggesting that everything that happened in the decline of agriculture in the post-war years- the ups and downs; the slumps and the good times; the general decline in agriculture, whether it be in terms of beef, fruit or dairy products- was the result of just a measly 3 years of Labor Government. Who are they trying to fool? Are they not men and women who understand and comprehend, or will they always resort to petty party political jibes to try to fool all the people all the time? This Government is threatening a disruption of trade relations with Japan. We ought to have a senior Minister in Japan if we want to do something about the beef industry, rather than standing in far off Australia waving a finger and threatening to do something retaliatory against Japan. 
These bravado tactics do not work. If they do, why did the Government not use them against the United States? Its decision was even more disastrous than the Japanese decision. After all, the United States is supposed to be the country with which this Government has philosophical, ideological and close working relationships. However, it did not make any threats against the United States, although trade between the United States and Australia is 2 times in its favour. If we want to use the big stick we should use it against big brother. That is a fairer way to fight. Of course, this Government does not do that, which shows the hypocrisy and the illogicality of the Minister and this Government. More than 52 per cent of our beef exports is destined for the United States. Maybe that is why it does not do it. Despite this, our trade relationships in this area have deteriorated so much that we were not even consulted when the arbitrary decision was made at the height of a big election campaign. True, there was election fever and the decision was made for pragmatic reasons; but, if that is the way friends behave, who needs enemies? 
No, there is not much hope. In order to be elected American candidates just turned down their thumbs on Downunder. Stable international trade agreements are arrived at not by threatening action after the damage is done but by negotiation to prevent the damage from being done. It is obvious that this Government did not see what clearly was the writing on the wall. It has so little intelligence information from the United States, Japan, the Philippines and other countries that we were not able to 'guestimate' what was to happen; we were not able to understand the pressures under which the Government would be placed. Had we been, we would have been over there to see that the American Government did not bow to the demands of the American cattlemen in the first instance and later of the Japanese cattle industry. 
So the Federal Government has failed, if any government has failed, to maintain existing export contracts and therefore should bear the increasing financial responsibility for programs of assistance to beef producers who have been affected by the Government's failure. As I said in the previous debate on the fruit industry legislation, if it is the export component which is the failure section of our industry the Australian Government should pick up the total tab. It should not be endeavouring to use its federalist policy to put the States on the receiving end of the financial responsibility. It is time the Federal Government took up its responsibility in relation to the marketing of beef, and indeed all meat. The Government has fiddled with the establishment of an Australian meat and livestock corporation. Rather than establish and man a corporation with the best possible people to represent the industry in these highly competitive days, the Minister has split the meat industry with his assertion that the composition of the corporation will follow the plans and form recommended to him by one section, the livestock producers. 
The major section of the meat industry is pressing for the establishment of a public corporation to acquire, classify, market and promote the sale of meat in this country. Is it impossible for the Minister to consider that as a reasonable proposition? He has had it before him for a considerable period of time. I can tell the Minister now that if he is prepared to move in this area of the Government acquiring the meat industry and establishing a proper marketing authority, he will have the full support of the Labor movement. Such action would bring about a great degree of stability, and was one of the problems discussed when we considered the price of meat back in 1973 and 1974. While we might not have made that specific recommendation, those members of this Government who were members of that Committee will recall that the problems of the industry were to some extent associated with a lack of central control, co-ordination and classification. I am not asserting and would be the last to assert that livestock producers should have no say on such a corporation or livestock authority, but to assert that the other half of the industry, with its multi-million dollar investment, is not to be adequately represented is equally unacceptable. Clearly, what is required is a corporation which will be able to take up the challenges confronting the industry, and they are very sizeable challenges. 
As I have said, these 3 sectors of agriculture today have their backs to the wall. It seems to me that in 1976 the challenge comes more from the marketing side than from the production side, and I hope that I will have the nodding support of Government supporters on the other side of the chamber for that statement. It is no longer a question of production with which we are concerned but the problem of distribution. By and large, beef producers in Australia are able adequately, and efficiently to keep their end of the bargain so far as production is concerned. What we require is marketing skills to be able to penetrate new markets, maintain old ones and improve domestic consumption.  Mr Sinclair  is required to establish a corporation which is not only representative but also satisfies the needs of the industry. I believe that the performance of a statutory corporation should be subject to constant public review. I would not want to support the mere establishment of a public corporation for the meat industry. We need a review apparatus and process upon which its performance from season to season and from day to day could be monitored, not in the way in which we see the voluminous annual reports coming to the Parliament which very few people read but in a way in which the industry, the employees and the consumers would have an opportunity to monitor the progress and the performance of the corporation. 
The recent decision of the Minister on the way in which the export quota to the United States of America is to be allocated may seriously disadvantage the industry in Tasmania and Northern Queensland, where the killing is seasonal. I raise that point only to indicate the need for this coordinated and central influence. I think it highlights the need for establishing a plan or a mechanism by which no sector of the industry is disadvantaged because of seasonal difficulties.  Senator Cotton  will recall that in the earlier part of this year questions were asked of the industry itself about how some sectors were taking advantage of quotas in order to disadvantage others. There was a need for this central direction and co-ordination so that all sectors would have equal opportunity and access to the available markets. It seems to me that the Government has not adequately carried out its duty nor has it provided such a plan. All I can do is ask Government senators to start to bring pressure, to get committees in the Government working, to examine the ways in which a mechanism can be established which will do more to stabilise the industry and the income of the rural sector. 
I believe that it is in the area of distribution of agricultural products that this Government has to pay more attention. No longer is the market place providing adequate returns to producers at reasonable prices to consumers. The price to consumers moves almost regardless of the prices paid to producers. I have some figures from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, and I think it is worth drawing to the attention of the Senate and of the community at large the variations which are taking place in relation to the beef producer, the beef industry, the returns available and the state of the industry. These figures relate to the share of the consumer dollar on a monthly basis, and they range from 1971 to 1975. 1 also have some late figures which came to me only today from the Legislative and Research Section of the Parliament which bring the information up to October 1976. The figures show an alarming state of affairs. In 1971 the average return to the beef producer, to the farmer, was 61c in the dollar, to the wholesaler 7c in the dollar, and to the retailer 32c in the dollar. In my view, that was a fairly equitable distribution of financial responsibility, having regard to the person who produces the article. In the following year there was not a great variation, although the farmer dropped down to 59c, the wholesaler to 5c and the retailer to 37c. When we come to the following year, 1 973- which was a Labor year so perhaps we ought to refer to it, because according to the conservatives of this country everything went bad- the farmer received 64c in the dollar, the wholesaler 7c and the retailer 30c. The position at the end of 1975 was that the farmer's share had dropped to 30c in the dollar, the wholesaler's share to 24c and the retailer's share to 46c. The latest figures show that those amounts have changed only marginally, although the return to the producer has improved. The percentage for beef and lamb is just a fraction over 40 per cent to the producer, with 25 per cent going to the wholesaler and approximately 34 per cent to the retailer. 
Yes, I would be happy to incorporate both documents because I think they show very revealing figures. I seek leave to incorporate the documents. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuIiffe)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="070232197612021_61_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="070232197612021_62_8.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. What I find interesting is the way in which the white meat industry- and the only figures that I have are for pork- has maintained a general degree of stability. In the period from 1971 to October 1976 the producer received 63 per cent, in round figures, the wholesaler IS per cent and the retailer 2 1 per cent. I am sure my National Country Party colleagues would agree that if the beef producers were receiving 60 per cent of the consumer dollar they would probably not be very concerned about the success or otherwise of this legislation. I think it is correct that the Opposition should be examining the problems of distribution. The tendency of rural newspapers, the National Country Party and the conservatives generally is always to talk about wages as being the principal factor in this area. They have never given very much attention to the problems of costs involved in distribution, and I think it would be desirable if the Government parties or even the Senate itself were to put some of its time into an examination of those problems. I believe that it is in the field of distribution that the producer in so many areas of agricultural products requires a great deal of examination, change, and I imagine assistance. 
The market place is no longer providing adequate returns to producers at reasonable prices to consumers. We all remember what happened when the beef industry was having its heyday in 1973-74 and the price to the consumer was not a satisfactory one. The amount of red meat being consumed dropped quite considerably, to the advantage of the white meat industry. So the price to the consumer is an important factor. But the Government prefers to allow beef producers to be subjected to reconstruction examinations and maybe even bankruptcy rather than change its false dogma and blind acceptance of the market place as being the one and only arbiter in this area of agriculture- in fact, in the whole area of production. It seems to me that the stage has been reached in the Western world where production is not the problem that it was. It is now a question of being more able adequately to distribute the goods. I referred in a previous speech today to the fact that the Industries Assistance Commission has said that market forces themselves cannot solve these problems. 
If the beef industry is to obtain stability, which I am sure is the objective of honourable senators, and there are to be adequate returns for producers at reasonable cost to consumers there is a need . for planning. I know that planning is regarded as a naughty, dirty word, but I am afraid that if there is to be any stability in agriculture we have to have a real examination of the need for planning. There is a need for efficiency in the domestic and overseas distribution processes. There is a need for a uniform national plan which will not disadvantage one section of the industry merely because of its geographic location. It struck me as being rather unusual that when I was referring in the previous debate to the influence that the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme was having and to what it would mean in respect to the domestic markets on the mainland someone wanted to take it down in evidence and use it against me in the Tasmanian elections. That is a petty way in which to deal with these matters. I was referring to the fact that that change in one piece of government assistance has other influences which can be disastrous. I was not advocating it. I was drawing attention to the influence that it has, which is influence that could cause hardship to greater numbers of people. 
The industry can no longer afford the exorbitant profit margins to which I have referred in relation to the consumer dollar. One of my colleagues in the other place,  Mr Fry,  has provided some figures on this subject. I will not quote the figures, but I suggest to honourable senators opposite that they look at the profitability of the meat processing companies, which must be making exorbitant profits, which is the only way in which they can be described, at the expense of the producer. The initiative must come from the Government. We cannot do very much in Opposition, except to use the forms of the Parliament that are available to us. The responsibility rests with the Government. It can commence by instituting a uniform classification system for all meat. It can continue with the establishment of a meat corporation which will unite- not divide- the industry and which, above all, will be capable and efficient. The Government has to get out of its thinking and its decision-making the concern it has about giving handouts by way of tax incentives and concessions. I do not believe from my discussions with the rural sector leaders that that is what they are after. They are looking for a fundamental approach. 
After one year in office the Government has made no significant reduction in the rate of inflation. The deficit is greater. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has borrowed a considerable sum of money overseas- in excess of $1 billion- to prop up our reserves. There has been a big reduction in our reserves. There has been a reduction of $189m in the allocations to the rural sector from last year's Budget and almost all the specific promises to the rural sector have yet to materialise. I think it would make for a useful weekend's reading if we were to produce for honourable senators a catalogue showing all of the promises and statements in the speeches of  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  in 1975. It would make for very good comic capers for honourable senators to see the way in which they made numerous promises and set out to apportion all blame to the Labor Government. None of their specific promises has materialised. I do not think the Government can afford to blame the Whitlam Government, the trade union movement or certain governments overseas for its own failures to accept its responsibilities. Unless the Government adopts a much more reasoned approach to these problems, I believe that the ballot box might produce some interesting results in a couple of year's time. In the meantime the Opposition supports this legislation. 
It is useful to move out of the judicial area and back into the fresh air of our rural countryside. Of course, this Bill will not give rise to quite the emotive response that occurred on the last occasion on which the Parliament was dealing with the question of fertilisers. At that time, of course, we were dealing with the superphosphate bounty. We are dealing this evening with the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. Once again, on behalf of the Opposition, I indicate that we do not intend to oppose the Bill, although we believe that some comments ought to be made in respect of the Bill because it is another piecemeal measure. It is another piece of legislation that deals with the effects of the crisis that faces agriculture and does not in any way deal with the causes of the problem besetting so many thousands of our farmers today. 
The Opposition does not oppose the amendments to the nitrogenous subsidy, because they are in keeping with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. However, we condemn the Government for not instituting programs envisaged by the IAC in its very fundamental examination of rural industry and such recommendations as are designed to alleviate the hardship that currently is being experienced by farmers. The Bill seeks to extend the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy scheme for a further year until 31 December 1977. I suppose it reflects something of the way in which the Government regards the rural sector that in the twilight of this  session we  are dealing with a number of Bills concerned with agriculture. Many of those Bills should have been on the business paper earlier this year, if we are to believe the rhetoric and the propaganda upon which the Government based its campaign against the Whitlam Government in 1 975 and its subsequent election campaign of November-December last year. 
The Bill seeks to reduce the subsidy from $78.74 per tonne of nitrogen content to $60 per tonne of such content. It proposes that the 1977 calendar year subsidy be payable at the reduced rate. Of course, it leaves in abeyance the future of the subsidy, because the suggestion was made by the Industries Assistance Commission that the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy should be phased out over a 3-year period. The Government has taken the initial step, in its first year of office, of reducing the subsidy. Perhaps one can read into that that ultimately it intends to adopt the total recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission in relation to the fertiliser subsidy. 
The Labor Party consistently has held the view that the rural producer most requiring assistance and support does not receive such assistance and support with across-the-board subsidies of this nature. They do not take into account the degree of hardship which is faced by the small farmer. In fact, they give the larger farmer the greater subsidy. Because the Labor Party has expressed that view, it has been misinterpreted to mean that the Labor Party is against all forms of subsidy assistance or assistance to the rural community. I hope that our performance during the 3 years for we were in government and certainly our attitude to legislation which has been passed by the Parliament this year have shown that that does not accurately reflect the Labor Party's attitude. What the Labor Party Opposition is against is the manner in which subsidies such as those based on tonnage use of fertilisers, or those based on volume of production, which purportedly assist the genuine, needy farmer, in fact give only a nominal assistance to him because of the amount of fertiliser that he uses. 
We look forward to the day when the Government will introduce legislation- it did not come in the first  session, and  obviously it will not come in this session of Parliament- that recognises the plight or the need of the small farmer. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and all of the spokesmen for the Government have expressed the view that something like half the fanners in this country today are earning less than $5,000 a year, which is considerably less than average weekly earnings and which places them even further down the income scale than those in the 70 per cent of the Australian work force who receives less than average weekly earnings. 
It has been established that the bulk of the assistance from product-based subsidies is obtained by farmers who do not require as much assistance as those lower down the scale. The Government claims that it will consider the level of subsidy to apply after 13 December 1977. So we have a year to wait before we can see whether the Government implements the second recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission. I have no doubt that it will do so. I have little doubt that the Government intends to follow the balance of the IAC recommendations which are related to the subsidy. That is to say, in the second year the subsidy will be reduced to $40 per tonne of nitrogen content and in the third year the subsidy will be reduced to $20 per tonne of nitrogen content before the Government phases out the bounty completely. When one considers that it is intended to phase out this subsidy, it is amazing how little reaction there has been from the farming community, especially when we consider the hullabaloo, the outcry, the protest meetings and the rhetoric that was expressed when the Labor Government took the step 2 years ago of phasing out the superphosphate bounty. 
The decision to phase out this bounty will, in certain instances, in the absence of alternative schemes, exacerbate the hardship already experienced by those recipients who ought to be considered for some form of government assistance. So the Government has failed to produce simultaneously a viable income support scheme designed to assist those farmers experiencing severe downturn in their real income. I do not think any honourable senators needs any advice about the very serious plight that is facing so many sections of Australia's rural industries today. 
The Labor Party does not oppose the reduction of the amount of the nitrogenous bounty but it does oppose the failure of the Government to introduce legislation which would give assistance to those farmers in need. We always have been critical of product-based subsidies, but we never have been critical of subsidies designed to assist people in need. In fact, the hub of all of the legislative programs of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 was identification, recognition and legislation, taking into account the question of need. What we are opposed to is the indifference that the present Government is displaying in relation to people in need in Australia. It has to be stated in this year, 1976, that we can look at 2 areas of need- a large section of the rural community and the unemployed. Both of these sections are being ignored by a Government which seems to be more keen to promote the foreign mining interests than to subsidise commercial and other concessions such as tax allowances for the Australian worker, whether he be a farmer in the rural sector or a labourer in the city. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question which, to an extent, has some relationship to the reply he gave in the debate on the States Grants (Beef Industry) Amendment Bill yesterday. Can he say when the Minister for Primary Industry proposes to announce formally the Government's proposals to the Australian 
Meat Board for the amended meat export diversification scheme? If the Minister is able to answer that question in the affirmative, what are the specific details? Do they have the support of both the producers' organisations and the Australian Meat Exporters' Council? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has her attention been drawn to a statement made by a person who claims to have been involved in the burying of radioactive waste in South Australia? Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government, when it was investigating the incident at Port Pirie a few weeks ago, found that the company concerned with the disposal of the waste had subsequently gone into voluntary liquidation and was therefore no longer culpable in regard to the maintenance or protection of that material? Leaving aside the subsequent inquiries that came about, has the Cabinet discussed the problem of health which may arise accidentally or otherwise from radioactive waste? In particular, has the Government initiated a program designed to protect the Australian people from existing radioactive material in Australia? How does the Government envisage that future generations will have knowledge of or be adequately protected from such dangerous material? Can the Minister advise what public authority or persons are or are to be responsible for the safeguarding of such material which is buried in various places in Australia? 
Last evening we began the debate on the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill (No. 2). I said then that the Opposition did not oppose the Bill but that we did want to make some critical comments upon the inability of the Government in any of the some 50 Bills that have been considered by the Parliament on the initiative of the conservative Government during 1976 to do much to alleviate the grave plight of farmers. I referred particularly to those who can be described as middle or small farmers, who are subjected to a low income position and whose grievous plight is acknowledged, even in the pronouncements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  They acknowledge the problems of negative income which face so many of the farmers in those categories. I said last night that it was the farm sector as well as the unemployed which required the sympathetic consideration of the Parliament and particularly of the Government. 
We are entitled to say that both of these areas are receiving scant or little attention from the Government whose principal thrusts in the stimulation of the private sector have been to get under way another mining boom and to concern itself with the development of what is under the ground rather than what is on the ground. To develop what is on the ground should be the responsibility of this Government because its members were very eloquent during 1 975 about the plight of those who earn their living from activities above the ground. Yet all the Bills we have been concerned with this year dealing with primary industry have been Bills to preserve the position taken by previous conservative governments or to continue the initiatives taken by the Labor Government. In no case has there been any endeavour to introduce the fundamental and structural changes that are needed because of the export component of agriculture in a way that will alleviate the poverty and the hardship and give to farmers the sort of support they need in these critical times. 
I believe that even with the devaluation proposals, which some farmers and farmer organisations believe will be some sort of panacea which will have a tremendous impact upon the farming community, unless there is very firm control of the inflow of capital in the immediate period we may well find that the economic measure which the Government took last Sunday will prove to be a boomerang and that within a year or two it will push this country into a position where it will be forced to consider revaluation, which in the context of agriculture would be a very disastrous position to face. There is no question that farmers are being denied the right to obtain a fair day's pay for their work. When one considers that most farmers have to engage in the area of capital investment, they do not receive a decent return on capital invested nor do they receive a decent return for the labour that they perform. They are therefore in somewhat the same category as workers who want the right to work but who for reasons beyond their control, whether in the rural or urban sectors, are not able to achieve that objective. 
The priorities as well as the credibility of this Government can be judged by the Minister's own statement before last year's election when he was in Opposition. Dealing specifically with this legislation, on the  Policy Makers  program on 25 November 1975  Mr Sinclair  stated that a Liberal-Country Party's policy 'is to maintain the nitrogen bounty at its present level'. Of course, in that program he was endeavouring to suggest that  Dr Patterson  was going to make a recommendation to the Cabinet at that time that the Labor Government adopt the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. On the program  Mr Sinclair  subjected  Dr Patterson  to a great deal of critical examination and ignored the fact that  Dr Patterson  had not made any such submission to the Government. The interesting thing was that  Mr Sinclair  committed himself and his Party- I think we are entitled to draw the conclusion that he committed his future Government- to maintain the nitrogen bounty at its present level. He went on to say: 
Our firm policy has not been to eliminate the nitrogen bounty. 
Just a year later legislation is before the Parliament reducing the bounty. As I said yesterday, when the Labor Government was giving consideration to the recommendations on the superphosphate bounty there was a great hullabaloo about that decision and that piece of legislation. It seems incredible that the rural sector is accepting this proposal without much comment at all. 
I think it is proper that the IAC should make recommendations about various sectors of the Australian economy, but I find myself at variance with the Government's attitude when it adopts some parts of.the. IAC recommendations but not the major parts. Of course, the bounties which have been paid to farmers are acrosstheboard bounties which depend upon the size of the farm, the usage of the fertiliser and upon production. So the Government has the capacity to give greater aid to the large and less aid to the small. The IAC report went on to point out that there was a very strong ground for the Government to give consideration to the establishment of a household support income so that all people in this country, whatever their level of income and whatever their circumstances, would have at least a basic household income. As I said, that recommendation has been ignored by the Government. I do not think anything can be said other than that  Mr Sinclair  and the Government have not kept their word and that this is another pre-election promise which has been broken by the Government. 
I believe that the Government must closely monitor the effects of the reduction in the subsidy to determine whether the IAC projections will prove true or false. The Government has a duty to determine that total farm costs do not rise by more than 2 per cent for farmers applying large amounts of fertiliser or by more than 1 per cent for the majority of users. The principal users of this type of fertiliser are those who reside in Queensland and operate in the sugar cane industry. Yesterday I spoke about the 3 major Australian industries which were in a state of crisisthe dairy industry, the beef industry and the fruit industry. We were able to say a few months ago that there was a degree of stability and wellbeing in the wool, wheat and sugar industries, but a new element has come into the sugar industry which shows that even that industry is being affected by world markets and trends overseas. 
We still need to have a monitoring responsibility to determine that the withdrawal of the subsidy will not cause severe dislocation not only to farmers but also to local manufacturers, as predicted by those who carried out the investigation into the industry. As the Senate will recall, the IAC estimated that the decline in total demand for nitrogenous fertilisers in the 1976 season would be about 16 per cent and in the 1981 season about 20 per cent to 25 per cent. I refer to 1981 because that is the last stage of the projections and recommendations of the IAC. It also predicted that it was unlikely that output by local manufacturers of fertiliser would be reduced to the same extent as the reduction in local demand because of opportunities for exporting local surplus to oversea markets. It is likely that Australian manufacturers will be able to find export markets for at least part of their surplus output and so maintain unit costs of production at levels close to those which would be achieved if the subsidy were to continue. What I am drawing attention to is not only the effect that the decline in demand will have upon the farming community but also the effect it will have upon the industry which manufactures the product as well. If these projections are found to be accurate, there could be no substantial dislocation to the local manufacturers of nitrogen. 
As I have stated, the Opposition accepts the legislation but does not accept the almost criminal disregard for members of the rural community in need. I have stressed that point in a number of contributions I have made in debates on other Bills in the Senate this week. The Opposition accepts the IAC's report, which submits at page 3: 
A subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers would not necessarily direct the assistance towards those rural activities in need of income support or cost reduction. The volume of consumption of nitrogenous fertilisers is not synonymous with need for assistance. 
The Government does nothing to assist those people in need. I suppose it could be said that one thing at least that is achieved by this amendment is that for the first time the Government has admitted that an across-the-board subsidy to all producers tends to assist those producers who are able to produce more rather than those who require more assistance. By phasing out this assistance in the first year of its operation, we believe that there is a tacit acceptance of the view which the Labor Party has been expressing in the Parliament over the last several years. In a sense, it is an historic change of opinion for the Liberal and National Country Parties. Perhaps enlightenment is finally dawning upon them and they are able to see that that sort of assistance does not bring about the desired result. 
I recall that last year when I was  chairman  of a Senate committee inquiring into Government assistance to industry Treasury finally gave us some figures which showed that something like $258m had been paid in the form of direct payments, subsidies and concessions to the rural sector. I am not quarrelling with the initiatives that have been taken by governments over the last 10-year period. The Labor Government's contribution was $843m. So in money terms it virtually equated the amount of assistance. But I think we are entitled to ask: Where has it got us? Have there been lasting benefits? Has it brought about stability? Has it achieved the desired purpose? I think that it is proper, therefore, that the Parliament ought to be examining such large scale expenditure of public funds- not necessarily for the purpose of restricting it but to see the value of it and to see whether the objectives that prompted governments to make available such sums of money have been realised. 
We hear a lot about expenditure of the taxpayers' money and public funds. The committee to which I have referred and of which I was  chairman  sat for a considerable period of time and heard a lot of evidence. In fact, its draft report was in my hands and ready to be made available to the other members of the commitee when this Government assumed office. I regret that this Government refused to reconstitute that committee, which was looking at assistance not only to rural industry but also to industry generally. Considering the sort of money that nas been spent, I think it is only proper that we should be exercising a role of supervision- not necessarily a role that is critical of the amounts of money spent but to see whether value has been reached in that direction. I would say that this change of opinion to which I have drawn attention and which I am assuming to be correct ought to be applied by the Government to the superphosphate bounty on the condition that the sum to be allocated under the bounty- that is, the sum of $50m- is allocated to those persons who are in need of assistance and not in the across the board fashion with which the Government has associated itself in that piece of legislation. 
When I talk about poverty among farmers I am talking about the farmers in many areas- of Australia but particularly, because I represent New South Wales, about those in northern New South Wales. The report by the Henderson Committeethe Committee of Inquiry into Povertyreferred to the fact that nearly 40 per cent of all farmers surveyed were in poverty or had incomes only marginally above the poverty line and that 15 to 24 per cent of the dairy farmers on the North Coast of New South Wales are in poverty. Those honourable senators who are wondering why the Labor Government in New South Wales is considering some reallocation of the access to quotas ought to reflect upon that. Some of the dairy farmers in New South Wales are receiving tremendous incomes from the privileged position; yet there is extreme poverty amongst dairy farmers in the northern part of New South Wales. Of course, those figures were put together several years ago. I think we would be entitled to assume that the figures would be much higher today, particularly if the Bureau of Agricultural Economics' projection for next year in respect to rural incomes is correct. It has forecast a 36 per cent drop in rural income. Making adjustment for the devaluation, that represents 21 per cent. Surely nobody would be happy to see a continuation of that state of affairs. 
The Labor Party calls upon the Government to act to relieve the economic pressures that are exerting themselves upon re- examination small farmers in this country and to replace product based subsidies with genuine assistance which will assist farmers and the rural communities. The Government has attempted in the past to excuse itself by claiming that it had to cut back the deficit and therefore could not assist rural Australia. This excuse should be put to rest once and for all. The Government cannot claim to be genuinely concerned with rural industries when its first Budget emailed a return of $25m from primary industries to the Treasury. In this period of a tremendous downturn there is a need for a re-examination of the provision of public funds to the rural sector. This Budget has to be compared with the first Labor Budget, which allocated an extra $29m to the rural industries. We did that in our first year in office, which was a time when we cut the Budget deficit of the previous Government by $4 lorn. We do not hear anything about that. We reduced the deficit considerably in our first year in office, yet increased the allocation to the rural sector. 
In 1976-77 the Budget deficit has not been substantially reduced, especially when one takes certain factors into consideration. I do not know how much longer we have to point out these facts to the Senate and to draw the Senate 's attention to these matters. We constantly hear spokesmen for the Government making reference in this place to the deficit as though it is the be all and end all of public accounting. The factors which should be taken into account include the imposition of the Medibank levy, the $240m refunded to the Treasury by the wool and wheat industries, the $200m which the Australian Telecommunications Commission had cut from its Budget and which it had therefore to borrow on the open market for its capital program and the additional funds necessary for the increased unemployment benefit as well as the additional program for Aborigines that was announced after the Government brought down its Budget. Those factors indicate the areas in which the deficit has been reduced. 
There is at least one member of the National Country Party of Australia in the other place who has stood up for the plight of the fanners. I would like to quote him. He has been honest enough to admit that in 1973 farmers had a good year. He said: 
In 1973, at the time the Industries Assistance Commission report was prepared, average farm incomes were almost at record levels- about S280-plus per week. 
That is on average, of course. He went on to say: 
Next year average weekly earnings for Australians are going to be more than SI 70 per week while average farm incomes are going to be down to $ 1 26 per week. 
He went on to say: 
There will be a 36 per cent drop in average farm incomes in one year. 
At long last even members of the National Country Party, who seem to be the last ones to do so, are learning about the economic trends in this country. The truth is beginning to come out.  Mr Whitlam  has been traduced throughout the countryside for what he said in 1973. Honourable senators will remember the famous wordsGovernment supporters might describe them as infamous words- he used when he said that farmers had never had it so good. He was only referring to an objective fact. Yet our opponents were able to use their propaganda machine against the Labor Government and to misrepresent the then Prime Minister by attributing that statement to a year in which real farm incomes had undergone a dramatic drop. 
I have obtained from the Parliamentary Library a comparison of the average weekly earnings and farm incomes over a certain period. What  Mr Whitlam  said that year is borne out by the facts. For example, in 1970-71 the average farm income was $4,713. The following year it increased to $5,982. In 1972-73-the first year of the Labor Government- it was $9,342. The next year, which was the year in which  Mr Whitlam  made his statement, it jumped to $15,902. It then dropped to $9,672 and then to $9, 1 94. Of course, the projections are that it is going to drop in those money terms by about one-third. The record ought to be put straight. I think that the context in which  Mr Whitlam  made those remarks ought to be understood. I do not think that the Labor Government necessarily should claim any credit for that, but I do not think that it ought to be kicked to death for the decline that subsequently occurred. Of course, if the BAE's projections prove to be only half accurate, it could be said that the genuine farmer has never had it so bad as he has had after one year in office of the Fraser Government. 
The rate of unemployment is higher in rural areas than it is in city areas. Real farm income has dropped by a mammoth 36 per cent. Cutbacks in health, education and social welfare programs are adding to the disadvantages of those who live in isolated areas. I think that the whole evidence shows that there is a need for some energetic action. In this respect I am thinking not of the sort of action that would increase the level across the board to farmers but of the sort of action that would provide assistance to those farmers- they represent some 50 per cent of the broad spectrum of the rural sector- who ought to be getting some Government assistance that will enable them to overcome the difficulties that they are presently facing. The Government has not done this, in spite of its election propaganda. It has had an opportunity to introduce such legislation. Even the Bill that is projected to come into this Parliament next week to deal with income equalisation deposits ignores the fact that it is not a question of farmers being able to put aside surplus funds for, as everybody familiar with the rural scene knows, half the farmers have no income to declare in their tax returns. In fact, many of them are in a negative position. 
We are correct in saying, and we will continue to say, that the Government is condemned for its inaction. We call upon the Government to examine again its responsibilities in this area, to recognise the need and to provide the sorts of initiatives that will give some financial relief to those farmers who are suffering very considerably because of factors that are completely beyond their control. Markets which were once buoyant are now restricted and even denied. Of course this piece of legislation, which we support, at least does not deliver a knock-out blow to those farmers to whom I refer, even though they are that group of farmers that will benefit least of all from it. 
The Senate is discussing- and I think that would be the context in which we ought to be dealing with this important matter- the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry which means we discuss nuclear energy and uranium mining. I think it is interesting that the debate has taken place because of the initiative of the Australian Labor Party who requested the opportunity to debate this issue before the Senate rose. The number of speakers who will have an opportunity to speak will represent only one-seventh of the Senate. We can only see this debate as heralding the wider public debate which has been referred to and requested by the Ranger inquiry commissioners and drawing attention of the general public to the importance of the uranium mining issue. But of course it will only be those few hardy souls who read  Hansard  who will be informed; perhaps some of us in this place might somehow or another penetrate the media through the good graces of the lone journalist who sits above us. 
Nevertheless, we need to be involved. We need to express our point of view and we need to discuss the issue but we should not see this as the beginning or the end of the debate. It should be considered as only part of the debate. I think honourable senators ought to look at this issue in the same way as we were looking at the issue of Vietnam a little over a decade ago when the first public opinion poll showed that two out of three Australians supported Australia's involvement in that war; but in the ensuing public debate that took place I would wager that today you would not get one person in three who would justify Australia 's involvement in that war. 
The regrettable feature of the discussion that has taken place today would seem to indicate that a number of the Government senators have read this report with dark glasses in fading light, because I cannot believe that  Senator Collard  could possibly come to the conclusions that he did when he said that he supports generally the report and the public debate and on the very questions that he raised so vociferously and with so much expertise and knowledge he ignored the very essence of the report itself. In particular he ignored the postscript of the report which dealt with the findings of the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution which speaks of the very questions that he raised. It says: 
. the spread of nuclear power will inevitably facilitate the spread of the ability to make nuclear weapons and, we fear, the construction of these weapons. 
Indeed, we see no reason to trust in the stability of any nation of any political persuasion for centuries ahead. The proliferation problem is very serious and it will not go away by refusing to acknowledge it. 
Take note,  Senator Collard.  Time does not permit me to continue reading because I have only 20 minutes in which to speak, but it seems to me that the honourable senator ought to read the sections of the report of the Royal Commission which deal with radioactive wastes. They point out that there are no safeguards in respect of the containment of long-lived, highly radioactive waste for the indefinite future'. In respect of general nuclear policy for the United Kingdom that report reads: 
The dangers of the creation of plutonium in large quantities in conditions of increased world unrest are genuine and serious. We should not rely for energy supply on a process that produces such a hazardous substance as plutonium unless there is no reasonable alternative. 
It goes on to say that there are other forms of energy that ought to be considered. Yet one would imagine from the contributions of  Senator Collard  and his colleagues that we have no alternative but to use nuclear energy as the source of energy for the future. The uranium inquiry commissioners themselves have declared: 
Ultimately, when the matters of fact are resolved, many of the questions which arise are social and ethical ones. We agree strongly with the view repeatedly put to us by opponents of nuclear development, that, given a sufficient understanding of the science and technology involved, the final decisions should rest with the ordinary man and not be regarded as the preserve of any group of scientists or experts, however distinguished. 
I do not think we could claim that members of Parliament are experts, scientists or even distinguished. Yet one would imagine that some have already decided to take a definitive position and hold it till the end of time. The commissioners imply that they should not be considered decision makers, that the Parliament should not be considered as the decision maker, but the ordinary man and women in the street should be considered the decision makers. That is what has prompted the ALP to take the initiative and write to every one of its branches throughout Australia, offering them video tapes and other material which will enable both sides of the question to be debated at every one of our branch meetings with all of the affiliated trade unions, and to hold at some time early in 1 977 a consultative conference at which all members of our party and affiliated unionists will be able to attend and debate the issue. In this way we will be carrying into effect the process of democratic discussion. It was pleasing to read in the newspapers this morning that the Apex Clubs have decided to do something similar themselvesto take as a project for 1977 the holding of public discussions throughout the various localities in this country. 
The Australian people are entitled to have the time to read the Fox report and to assess it before Australia is committed to the status of a uranium supplier which may well prove to be a status from which future Australians will be unable to extract or will have difficulty in extracting Australia. It seems to me that when we are in doubt, and clearly it must be admitted by those who have spoken so strongly this evening that there is sufficient doubt, we are entitled to be hesitant. I believe that the Government has a duty to the Senate to explain why, in view of the final recommendation that 'there should be ample time for public consideration of this report and for debate upon it', a decision to go ahead with uranium mining was made. In fact, even the debate in the House of Representatives and indeed the debate in the Senate is post-decision making by this Government. Surely we can call in the Government to explain why so few copies of the report itself were published. 
It is true that each member and senator was issued with one copy. However, it is also true that no additional copies have been made available. I have been reliably informed that only a limited number of copies were printed and made available through the Australian Government Publishing Service outlets at a cost of $4 and that these copies have been sold. I am also informed that there are no existing plans for a second edition. Perhaps honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate will ask the Government to confirm or deny that the decision not to print an adequate number of copies of the report was made by the Cabinet. Unless there is an adequate dissemination of the report it is very difficult for the general public to come to any conclusions. 
There are certain matters concerning the uranium issue which I believe have to be put forward to correct the erroneous opinion that the whole issue is confined to the safety of workers in the industry, or for that matter the equally important if not more important safety factors which will affect this generation and all future generations. All Australians must be given the opportunity to assess the detrimental and beneficial effects that the mining of uranium is likely to bring to this country. In times of unemployment, for example, there is a need to consider ways in which employment opportunities can be improved.  Senator Collard  made some reference to that. It cannot be denied that some employment opportunities would be obtained if we were to go ahead willy-nilly on uranium mining and that some jobs would be retained if the go-ahead were given. The Fox report indicates at page 77 the job opportunities the Ranger operation would provide. I quote the report: 
The Ranger operation would employ about 600 people during the construction period of two years, if the initial production rate were 3000 tonnes per year of  U3O8  in yellowcake and 1000 people if the rate were 6000 tonnes per year. Thereafter the operation would employ about 250 and 400 people respectively. 
So we are not talking about a major impact upon our unemployment position. I think the findings of the report illustrate that the employment benefits are limited. The new mining development is highly capital intensive compared with the figures for the old Mary Kathleen uranium mine which has been employing for the last year 300 men for an annual production of 800 tonnes. The argument has been put that the indirect employment benefits are much greater, but this claim has not been substantiated in the Australian context. 
Firstly, the facts that the proposed mines are in remote locations and that the machinery for the mines will not be made in Australia run contrary to this claim. Secondly, the rapid expansion of uranium mining, which is capital intensive, and mining generally, will have indirect detrimental effects on the employment prospects and existing jobs in the other 2 major sectors of our economy- the rural and the manufacturing sectors. I think it is about time that we renamed the National Country Party the National Mining Party because in all of its public pronouncements it seems to be much more concerned about what is under the ground than what is above the ground. 
What I am endeavouring to draw to the attention of the Senate is the effect that the proposed move will have on the economy of our country. Mining, of course, requires- this is particularly so in relation to uranium mining- large amounts of capital, and that capital must be found somewhere. It would be redirected from other sections of the economy, particularly from manufacturing industry which at the moment is being systematically desmantled and shifted to parts of South East Asia. 
Of course,  Senator Maunsell  would not have the knowledge or the understanding to know what I am talking about. The investment decisions of companies like the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the Bank of New South Wales and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd illustrate the vast rechannelling of funds that is taking place. If  Senator Maunsell  reads some of the reports that are freely available he might be a little more educated. In Australia capital has been moving away from labour intensive ventures which are being denied investment funds and towards capital intensive, higher growth areas, such as the mining sector. It cannot be denied that the Fraser Government's economic policies, both in the 3-year period before the Labor Government took office and now, have fallen down in controlling the flow of capital into the country. Let us look at the period 1969 to 1 972 when there was a mining boom. Net capital inflow for those 3 years was as follows: In 1969-70, $750m; 1970-71, $l,403m; and 1971-72, $ 1,779m. That unbridled capital increase caused many of the problems with which the Whitlam Labor Government was confronted in the first year of office. If I may be permitted, I would like to refer to a section of the Industries Assistance Commission's report on rural reconstruction, in which, one would imagine, members of the National Country Party would be interested. It said of the early mining boom: 
The emergence of other significant export industries in Australia, particularly minerals, has also affected rural exports. Favourable balance of payments mainly through increased mineral exports prompted government to revalue the Australian currency . . . effectively raising the cost of Australia's exports on overseas markets . . . 
That capital inflow increased the money supply and brought about those early years of the inflationary spiral. It brought an inflationary pressure, which began the problems that the present 
Government now has shown itself totally unable to control, just as we found in government it very difficult to control. It cannot be denied that it has not brought about more job opportunities for Australians or a higher standard of living. That is the point that was made by  Senator Maunsell  in his contribution. That mining boom, in fact, created tremendous difficulties for the rural sector, and another mining boom will have exactly the same effect. That situation, I believe, arose because the capital inflow was used largely to create the rnining boom of the early 1970s and not to restructure, update or assist our manufacturing or agricultural industries.  Mr Macphee  in the other place spoke today about the need for restructuring our industries. It was precisely because of the mineral boom of the late 1960s and the early 1970s, before the Labor Party took office, that we have those structural problems which have to be adjusted today. So rapid growth in the mining sector has detrimental economic effects.  Mr Gregory,  in an article in the August 1976 issue of the  Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics,  summed up the effects as follows:  . . assistance to the import competing sector is paid for, in part, by the export sector and that increases in assistance to export industries will reduce the quantity of resources being used in import competing industries. Consequently, as the rapid growth of a new export sector will lead to adjustments both to the traditional export sector and the import competing sector any reduction in the adjustment of one sector, brought about by government intervention, will increase the adjustment which must occur in the other ... It has been estimated, very aproximately, that the rapid growth of mineral exports has been equivalent, from the viewpoint of the traditional rural export sector, to a doubling of the tariff. From the viewpoint of the import competing sector the rapid growth of mineral exports appears to nave been equivalent to the removal of the tariff and the introduction of an import subsidy. 
Yet  Senator Maunsell  had the audacity to suggest that the $3,000m that we may accrue annually from the extraction and enrichment of uranium will be a great thing for the country. It will spell even greater disaster to our export industries, and principally our primary industries, which he claims he wants to represent. There can be no doubt that from an economic point of view both agriculture and manufacturing cannot afford another mineral boom. The results for the employment situation in this country may well be disastrous. The strategy of the Government is to promote such a mining boom with foreign capital inflow. Already the results of the devaluation are showing the correctness of the assertion that there will be a foreign capital inflow. Now, because of devaluation caused by the speculation of large companies, that foreign capital will be buying 17Vi per cent more of 
Australia for the same money than would have been possible previously. The desire particularly seems to be, as is evidenced by the immoral speed with which the Fox report was dismissed, to lead with uranium mining which, to get off the ground, requires large capital inflows. An alternative argument, which is partly moral and partly economic, has been put by those advocating uranium mining, the development of nuclear power, and a nuclear based economy. 
There is no question but that there is considerable disquiet in scientific circles, in the church, and among those people who concern themselves with moral issues. There is considerable disquiet even in the Government parties. There is disquiet, of course, in the trade union movement and in the community generally. The only way in which these issues can be properly ventilated is to bring about the sort of stimulation, by means of a public debate, that is essential to resolve these issues. I support the view that was expressed recently by the National Secretary of the Labor Party, David Combe when he said that he believed that within the next decade the issues of uranium and mining generally in Australia will be the biggest issues to be faced by the Australian people. So this argument centres around the view that the Western world is currently facing or is likely to face a severe energy shortage. 
In the few moments that I have left to speak I want to answer the point that was raised by  Senator Collard.  He seemed to take the view that uranium was the answer to the energy problems. But the argument that the world's energy resources are in danger of imminent exhaustion and that therefore the alternative expensive nuclear technology has to be developed has been dismissed by the Fox commissioners. At page 1 64 of the report it is stated: 
It is also clear that world energy resources are not in danger of imminent exhaustion. Total world coal resources are so large that they will not be approaching depletion for many decades, even if the rate of energy use continues to increase exponentially as it has this century. We have examined the relative costs of electricity generated by coal and nuclear energy, particularly in those countries which are said to be critically dependent on Australian uranium. If coal is in the future made available to such countries at prices equivalent to recent prices, the cost of electricity generated from it is likely to be only marginally higher than the cost of electricity generated from nuclear energy. 
Figures prepared for me by the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library suggest that nuclear power does not have an outstanding economic advantage over coal in the case of a power station on which construction commenced in 1975. So only in the light of all the evidence that is available to laymen- that is all we are; not one of us is a scientist or an expertand on the basis of our philosophical position and the information that we can gather can we make a contribution to this debate. I might point out that according to the dictionary the word public' means: 'Concerning the public as a whole', which includes members of the community generally. The word 'debate' means to discuss whole argument, consider and ponder. That is precisely what the Fox inquiry seeks to do, namely, to have the Australian people consider and ponder the whole argument and discuss as a community the problems associated with the uranium industry. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do so because it has been suggested in some circles that he is one of the top decision-makers of his Government. I ask him in that capacity: Can he inform the Senate whether the  Government  has any information as to the amount of capital that has flowed into Australia since devaluation? Has the Government given any consideration to placing an embargo on the future outflow of capital that may arise as a consequence of the revaluation decision today, especially if that capital is speculative and came into Australia only in the last 10 days and someone now stands to make a profit of nearly 20 per cent without the capital having been of any benefit to this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the increase of $ 1 7 per week in net farm income projected for 1976-77 by the Minister for Primary Industry approximately a week ago as a result of recent currency devaluation. I ask by what amount this marginal gain is eroded by the Government's general decision to revalue upwards? What is the estimated loss to net farm income for the remainder of 1976-77 caused by raising the value? 
I think it is a matter of great regret that  Senator Harradine  should raise this matter in the manner in which he did when he could have obtained the facts in respect of the wreath laying ceremony yesterday. Of course,  Senator Harradine  is known as CMR- the chief muck raker. We have come to expect this sort of behaviour from him. I do not think the record will show that there was any endeavour to mislead the trustees of the Australian War Memorial, as  Senator Harradine  has endeavoured to mislead the Senate into thinking this evening. I am thankful for the approach to this matter that was taken by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  which could be summed up in the expression that groups of Australians who want to honour war dead should have the opportunity to do so. Of course there is no more fitting person in this Parliament to honour Australian war dead than the Honourable Thomas Uren, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party who, as has been pointed out, was captured in Timor and as a prisoner of the Japanese subsequently was on the Burma Road and was then taken to Japan. 
The brief hundred or so words that he uttered paid tribute to the Austraiian war dead who were killed in East Timor during World War II. The official record shows that 50 000 East Timorese people died during World War II. The people of East Timor received the gratitude of the Australian Government for nurturing and looking after Australian troops who were left behind in East Timor and were thought to be lost during the many years of the war. Therefore it is proper that some public recognition should be made of the sacrifices that the Timorese people made to assist Australian troops who managed to escape and with their help remained free from the clutches of the Japanese during World War II. According to reputable information Roger East, an Australian journalist who was representing an Austraiian news agency in Dili, was killed on the day that the Indonesians invaded Dili. This is the day on which we sought to commemorate his loss, the loss of the Australian journalists in East Timor and the loss of those Australians who died in East Timor in the war against Japan. 
I take the view that the Australian War Memorial is owned by the Austraiian people. It is true that the legislation under which the Memorial is administered provides that the trustees shall operate the Memorial on behalf of the Australian people. I specifically asked the question when I agreed to go to the ceremony whether official approval for it had been given. I was informed that it has been. I do not know what were the precise terms of the application, but I am told that the ceremony was designed to pay tribute to those who had fallen in World War II and to those who had fallen subsequently in Timor. 
Muck-raker, shut up. This man has maligned members of the Australian trade union movement - 
Which shower did you come down in, senator? 
In the 5 years that I have been in this Senate I have not engaged myself in personalities, but in the very brief time that  Senator Harradine  has been here he has engaged in personalities and has made slanderous statements against many members of the Australian Labor Party and trade unionists throughout this country. 
I withdraw,  Mr President,  but I assure you that since the Australian Labor Party has removed this man from its membership in Tasmania the Labor Party in that State has been healthier than it had been for more than a decade. What will happen in the Tasmanian elections on Saturday will show how much more healthy the Party is since it has removed him from its ranks. 
The elections on Saturday will show the value of the decision that was taken by the Labor Party in the matter. I am proud to have participated in the wreath-laying ceremony and to have been with eleven of my colleagues to do just that. I do not want to enter judgment on the decision of the Trustees so far as the Hungarian question is concerned, but  Senator Harradine  showed the contradictory position in which he placed himself because he drew attention to the fact that the trustees are obliged to have regard to fallen Australian dead.  Senator Harradine  was not present at the ceremony, and if journalists like to present half a dozen words from what  Mr Uren  said and leave out the other ninety or so words that he uttered,  Senator Harradine  is entitled to interpret what was said. I can assure this Senate that  Mr Uren  paid tribute to Australian troops who fell during World War II and to the loss on the day of the invasion of East Timor, as well as on 16 October, when Australian journalists died doing one thing, that is, carrying out an obligation to report to the world what was happening in East Timor. 
I think it is proper that members of this Parliament as well as members of the Australian community should commemorate such a sad occasion when men lost their lives trying to bring to the world the story of what was happening at that time in East Timor.  Senator Harradine  showed a lamentable lack of knowledge of the events of World War II. In point of fact, most of Indonesia, or the Dutch East Indies, as it was known in those days, collaborated, with the Japanese, as did sections of Timor. The incredible facts are that the section of Timor which is now known as being part of Indonesia was that section which collaborated with the Japanese against the interests of the defence of Australia. It was the area known as Portuguese East Timor, which was the subject of the invasion, which rendered great assistance to the Australian troops. The consequence was a conflict of opinion between the role of those people in East Timor and those who formed part of Indonesia. 

 Senator Harradine sought to compare the events in East Timor with an event that took place in 1956, to which he is entitled to make some reference- the invasion of Hungary. The Trustees could not possibly give approval for a wreath laying ceremony for that event because it would not be commemorating Australian dead. In consequence, the Trustees acted correctly then as they did on this occasion when negotiations took place between the Trustees and those who organised the event to commemorate the Australian dead. 
In all the circumstances, one must doubt the motive of  Senator Harradine  in attempting to raise this matter in the adjournment debate. It was designed not only to besmirch those who were involved in this incident but also to intimidate the Trustees so that on a future occasion the Memorial will not be available to Australians who want to exercise a democratic right to commemorate some aspect of a war in which Australian troops have died. I think that is a matter to be regretted. 
I have taken a consistent position on the matter of Timor. As honourable senators know, I condemned my Party for its lack of activity when we should have carried out our responsibilities to the people of Timor. I enjoyed some of the responses by members of the Government Parties on the matter of East Timor. We shared a common concern about the events there. I think it ill becomes any member of the Senate to suggest that what is done in respect of East Timor has some sinister connotation, represents a subversive approach or in any way ought to be condemned. In fact, the attitude of any members of this Parliament which supports the independence movement in Timor ought to have the endorsement of every member of this chamber. I make no apology on behalf of all members of the Labor Party who attended that wreath laying ceremony. I hope the Government will not be misled into taking any steps which would remove from the Trustees the right to make a decision in respect of any application by a  bona fide  group of Australians who want to pay a tribute to war dead. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall the question I raised as a matter of urgency on 30 November- 9 days ago-about the public concern being expressed about the burial of nuclear wastes at Maralinga in South Australia? Does the Minister know that since then citizens have come forward voluntarily with information that they participated in the burial of such waste in 197 1? As sufficient time has elapsed since I raised the question, can I be assured that the Government will provide me with an answer before the Senate  rises  so that public concern about the safety aspects of nuclear waste can be answered? 
We have before us a situation which was perhaps adequately debated last evening in the general context of the wreath laying ceremony and Timor.  Senator Georges  has drawn attention to the fact that a journalist recorded the speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and that steps are currently being taken to have transcribed the recording which will endorse the remarks that were made by a number of honourable senators last evening. I should imagine that  Senator Walters  would be the last person who would want to enter this debate today, considering what she had to say during the course of the debate last evening. 
I have looked at the Senate record of the debate,  Senator Withers,  and the statements that she made. Let us remember that she denied making certain statements which the  Hansard  record shows that she did in fact make. At page 2862 of  Hansard- I  am sure that we can take it as being a true record of the debate- I am reported as having said: 
 I am told that the ceremony was designed to pay tribute to those who had fallen in World War II and to those who had fallen subsequently in Timor. 
At a later part of my speech I said: 
I can assure this Senate that  Mr Uren  paid tribute to Australian troops who fell during World War II and to the loss on the day of the invasion of East Timor, as well as on 16 October, when Australian journalists died doing one thing, that is, carrying out an obligation to report to the world what was happening in East Timor. 
I can understand that  Senator Withers  may not have heard me say that because I can recall that at the time I was making that statement he was speaking to, I think,  Senator Chaney. 
Yes. I said: 
I can assure this Senate that  Mr Uren  paid tribute to Australian troops who fell during World War II and to the loss on the day of the invasion of East Timor, as well as on 16 October, when Australian journalists died doing one thing, that is, carrying out an obligation to report to the world what was happening in East Timor. 
-I am not admitting it at all. I am saying that we paid tribute to those Australians whose death took place on the day of the invasion.  Senator Walters,  who quite coincidentally had a copy of  Mr Uren's  speech in the chamber only a few moments after  Senator 
Harradine raised the matter, said- this is why I think she has to be nailed to the mast on this matter. 
This speech was made at the wreath laying ceremony and it will prove that  Senator Gietzelt  was not telling the truth when he said that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had said that it was in commemoration of the Australians who had fallen in the Second World War. 
I repeat that I had said: 
 I am told that the ceremony was designed to pay tribute to those who had fallen in World War II and to those who had fallen subsequently in Timor. 
I took exception to what  Senator Walters  said and raised a point of order in relation to which I said: 

 Mr Uren did have a prepared speech but he did not refer to it. 

 Senator Walters said: 
I am not accusing  Senator Gietzelt  of anything. 
If accusing me of not telling the truth is not accusing me of anything, I do not know what is the meaning of those words in the English language or what the dictionary defines as an accusation. After  Senator Georges  made some reference to this matter today  Senator Walters  was on her feet saying that she did not say that it was a speech. I refer her to the last few lines on page 2863 of  Hansard.  Senator Steele  Hall said: 
It was not given. It is a quite useless exercise. 

 Senator Walters then said: 
This is a speech by  Mr Tom  Uren,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, at a wreath laying ceremony. 

 - Senator Withers, of course, is trying to suggest that the speech, which it would appear was circulated in a limited fashion - 
After the ceremony, certainly. But on many occasions I have read - 

 - Mr President, am I to be permitted to speak or am I to be subjected to constant harassment by Government supporters? Every so often we read in the newspapers speeches which have been embargoed by the Leaders of the various Parties- in particular by the Leaders of the Government Parties. The Prime Minister has gone to a function with a prepared speech and not delivered that speech but spoken off the cuff and has been reported as such, as well as having reported the speech which he circulated prior to going to the function. It is a common practice in the parliamentary arena. I have seen references made to that on several occasions in the last few months in relation to  Mr Fraser  as well as in relation to  Mr Lynch, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair.  They have had prepared speeches circulated through the system to which  Senator Withers  referred and to the Press, and made different speeches on some occasions on which they have been invited to address a particular conference and so on. 
That is right. Of course,  Senator Walters  has made the imputation in her contribution to the debate not only that I misled the House but also that I was not telling the truth. I think that she ought to be asked to withdraw that imputation because at no stage did I mislead the Senate. I admitted that  Mr Uren  had made references to those who had fallen in Timor during World War II and to those who had been killed subsequently as well as to those East Timorese people who had died. When I was in East Timor the East Timorese people took me to a spot in the hills around Dili where the Australian Government has erected a memorial and constructed a swimming pool as a permanent record of the Australian people's recognition of and gratitude to those East Timorese- the 50 000 of them-who died during World War II in protecting the Australian troops during the period of the occupation of that area by the j apanese. Therefore I seek an assurance from  Senator Walters  that she is not accusing me of misleading the Senate and of not telling the truth. If she is not prepared to give it,  Sir, then  I seek your guidance. 
I did take a point of order,  Mr President,  and  Senator Walters  denied making the statement. She said: 
I am not accusing  Senator Gietzelt  of anything. He seems to be very sensitive about this and I am beginning to wonder why he is so sensitive. 
But the record shows that she did make the accusation that I was not telling the truth and, as she said that she did not say it, I had to wait until the Senate  Hansard  was available today before I could ask you,  Sir, to  have the record put straight. 

 Senator WALTERS (Tasmania)-Mr  President,  I seek leave to reply to  Senator Gietzelt  's remarks. 
The Senate is being asked to give its assent to the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill 1976. The Opposition is prepared to support this amending legislation. It is some 6 months since the Senate previously had an opportunity to discuss the dairy industry. Whilst there have been some changes in the industry we are still faced with a critical position due to the problems which are inherently part of the structural problems that face the Austraiian dairy industry. The Bill is designed to put beyond any reasonable doubt the power of the State milk authorities to impose a levy on whole milk or butterfat. I understand that the need for the legislation arises because of some doubts that were cast upon the ability of the Australian Government to request the States to impose the levy procedures. There was some delay in the implementation of the previous legislation as well as in the payment of the levy. In addition to the doubts that were cast upon the legislation by the dairy authority in New South Wales there has been a similar negative reaction from the authority in Queensland which refuses to have anything to do with the collection of the levy. We are unable to understand whether this reluctance is part of the general behavioural pattern in Queensland to say no to any Australian 
Government initiatives in whatever area of legislation. 
The levy is used to finance the research activities of the Dairy Research Committee and the promotional activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. The funds collected under the terms of the Act to which this Bill relates are expended on specific areas of scientific, technical and economic research and the publication of such information and activities. In 1975-76 income gained from the butter fat levy was over $774,000 each for the dairy produce fund and the sales promotion fund. The processed milk manufacturers and the Government export market development grants scheme also add to the funds available for research and promotion. When we consider the problems that exist in the dairy industry generally we can see how important it is for Australian Government initiative and for the support of the State milk authorities and State governments. It is vital that there be no hesitancy in the powers of the Commonwealth to vest State authorities with the power to collect the levies. It is in the interests of the industry, the Commonwealth and the States. However, the Bill 's presentation can be described only as inadequate for the general problems that face the dairy industry. I am obliged to say that in the circumstances of the problems facing the industry, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  makes Nero look a little like an amateur when it comes to fiddling. Nowhere in the legislation we dealt with in the autumn session or in this session of Parliament have we really come to grips with the basic problems of the industry. 
Apart from a cursory second reading speech prepared by his Department, the Minister made no comment in the other place on the Bill or the dairy industry. It was left to another Minister, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  to move the third reading of the Bill. This epitomises the Minister's lack of interest in the dairy industry. On many occasions the Minister has been rhetorical about a number of deficiencies in respect to the dairy industry which he laid at the door of the previous Government. It is fair to say that the Minister is pretty good at diverting people's attention from his own lack of activity. It might be recalled that he spent a fair bit of time attacking the Japanese and threatening them by suggesting that there would be some retaliatory action against them for cutting back on beef imports. I want to read a telegram that was sent to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who was good enough to pass it on to me. It was from the Vice  President  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council. It drew attention to the proposal by the Minister for Primary Industry to trade off Australia's fish resources in exchange for increased beef quotas to Japan. It states: 
This branch objects to the use of resources diplomacy in relation to the fishing industry and sees this action as being the thin end of the wedge, allowing in future, further 'trade offs ' of fish resources to protect other export industries. We hope that you will make known your objection to this blatant sacrifice of one industry to protect another. 
Having regard to answers to questions that have been given in this place and elsewhere about devaluation, it would appear that a number of farmers have been lulled into believing that there will be very great benefits as a result of the Government's decision on devaluation. Devaluation will now be sold as some sort of unlimited joy to Australia's primary industries and as a solution to the dairy industry's problems. If only it was true that devaluation would help the dairy industry. 
I wished to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Cotton)  a question this morning concerning the reference of the Minister for Primary Industry to the fact that in his view devaluation would have the effect of increasing farm incomes by some $150m. Unfortunately I was not able to do so. I am sure that  Senator Cotton  would agree with me that the concern of the dairy industry is access to markets. I wanted to find out whether the Minister's statement was a mathematical statement or whether it related to overseas markets. If that were so, then the revaluation decision would considerably reduce income to farmers as the devaluation decision was taken only several days ago. It must be asserted and it cannot be contradicted that the proportion of dairy produce in world trade has always meant a more than disproportionate effect in any changes in supply and demand. Devaluation will lift the prices for dairy products if contracts have been written in other currencies but the main problem for dairy exports is that markets are closed to us and will remain closed until there are shortages in the northern hemisphere. 
Devaluation has the capacity to add to farmers' costs in both the short and long term. The short term benefits for some industries may well be eaten into by freight rates. The 1975-76 report of the Industries Assistance Commission contains tables which deal with the invisibles of which freight charges play a significant part. These are matters which ought to be the concern of those interested in the problems facing the rural sector because there is no doubt that freight charges will rise as a result of the devaluation decision. The overall effect of devaluation on rural industries will be different for different industries. I concede that point but I do not believe that the dairy industry will benefit much from the decision. It is interesting that supporters of the Government in the other place who had the courage to speak on this legislation stressed the plight of this industry. Few of them spoke without attacking the Government. Any member or senator in this Parliament representing dairy farmers or having any knowledge of the problems facing the dairy industry, cannot feel happy with the Government or the Minister. 
The Minister puts forward a minor Bill on the dairy industry one year after his Government came to office. We are waiting for the Government to come forward with some substantial legislation that really will help the dairy industry. Reluctantly, the Government agreed to the underwriting of exports on a basis that would cost it little or nothing. Tardily, the Government agreed to about half of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations on rural reconstruction. The Minister rather cynically called for another IAC report on the dairy industry, despite the fact that he had in his possession a report by the IAC on the dairy industry which had been requested and which was delivered in October 1975. So, it was a stalling measure on the part of the Minister. It was a measure designed for no action at a time when we needed action to tackle the problems facing the industry. It can only mean that more and more dairy farmers, particularly those in disadvantaged sectors of the industry, will go on to the dole and will have to be restructured out of the industry. If the recommendations in the first IAC report are read carefully, one can see that an alert Minister could have asked his Department to come up with a plan for the industry without the time wasting involved in another report. The Minister and the Government have shown little leadership; in fact, one can readily assert that they have shrunk from their responsibilities. 
Let us look at problems in the dairy industry with which the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have failed to come to grips. For the first 2 months of the current dairying season -July and August- national butter production was down by 33.3 per cent and cheese production was down by 32.3 per cent. These figures are largely a result of the drought in southeastern Australia. It should be remembered that butter and cheese production was down in every State. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics expects the national milk production to decline by 12 per cent to 5560 million litres- the lowest level in 23 years. Yet we still have a problem with the distribution of our production quotas. Production of butter is expected to be down by 22.3 per cent on last year's figures and skim milk powder by 19.8 per cent. In the face of cost rises in excess of 30 per cent in the last 3 years and given the decline in production, the gross value of dairy products is projected by the BAE to fall dramatically. The value of butter will be down by $30m; cheese, by $3m; and processed milk products, by $3m. The only compensation for this will be an expected rise of $ 10m in the value of domestic milk used for human consumption and now some possible new short term benefit arising out of the devaluation decision. 
State governments are moving to share this revenue which had been so unfairly denied to some producers of milk- typically, in my State of New South Wales in Country Party areas where that Party sold out the dairy industry by using the carrot of a subsidy while its Liberal colleagues maximised profits under zoning legislation. Now even the Victorian Government, which was of the same political complexion as the New South Wales Government until 1 May, looks like spreading some of the revenue available on the domestic market to all of its producers so that there will be some possibility of the dairy producers receiving a more equitable return for their labour. 
Let us make no mistake about the dairy industry and the cause of its problems. As a result of production incentives in the post-war years, we have allowed resourses to flow into this industry. The result has been that too much production has taken place. A decision was made in the postwar years to expand agricultural production, first for humanitarian purposes and then to gain foreign exchange. Part of this problem relates to the subsidy situation which is synonymous with this Government's agricultural policies in the post-war years. The Labor Party is being painted as being opposed to subsidies, come hell or high water. AH we have said is that subsidies have distorted the allocation of resources between and within industries. They have done little to produce long term stability or efficiency within subsidised industries. Worse than that, subsidies on production inputs have done nothing for welfare problems in industries; they have simply benefited those who have needed them least. Poverty reports show that in the dairy industry we have some of the worst social problems of those who are living just above the poverty line. 
The subsidy to the dairy industry by way of the butter and cheese bounty was $29m in 1955-56, but it dropped to $27m in 1956-57. By the end of 1972- 73, that subsidy, plus devaluation compensation for the years 1969 to 1972, had amounted in the years 1955 to 1973 to the colossal sum of $563m. Between 60 per cent and 70 per cent of this money has gone to Victoria- the most efficient butter producing State. Other States were actually paying money to Victoria via equalisation schemes when the Labor Government decided- and correctly so- to phase out the subsidy. If the men now in Government were genuine about their protests at the Labor Government's action, let them now advocate subsidies or act to restore the former inequitable system. 
As well as subsidies and restrictive legislation preventing the free enterprise production of margarine, Australian dairy farmers have enjoyed some protection on the domestic market. I believe that much of this protection is deserved and unavoidable. But the facts need stating so that the same old myths are not perpetuated. Due to a decision of the Government, for years Australian taxpayers and farmers subsidised British housewives by the provision of cheaper butter than we could buy in Australia. In other words, the Australian consumer subsidised overseas buyers. In domestic terms, Australian consumers also have subsidised the dairy industry by paying a high price for all dairy products, given import parity prices. I emphasise that I am not opposing what has happened, what is happening and what will happen; but I point to the fact that the process I have described led the BAE, which was given the task of making an objective assessment, to make calculations on the effective rate of protection to the dairy industry in its submissions to the first LAC inquiry into the industry. 
As the Minister will well know, the industry is virtually 2 producing industries, with milk going either to a fluid milk market or to a manufacturing milk market. The effective rate of protection for the fluid milk sector in the years 1971-72 to 1973- 74, State by State, was as follows: New South Wales, 364 per cent; Victoria, 395 per cent; Queensland, 236 per cent; South Australia, 95 percent; Western Australia, 179 percent; and Tasmania, 328 per cent. The overall rate for Australia was 243 per cent. For the manufacturing sector in the same years, the effective rate of protection, State by State, was: New South Wales, 45 per cent; Victoria, 42 per cent; Queensland, 41 percent; South Australia, 28 per cent; Western Australia, 37 per cent; and Tasmania, 39 per cent. The overall rate for Australia was 41 per cent. If one allows for the proportion of milk going to the 2 main end users, the effective rate of protection for all milk in the years 1971-72 to 1973-74 was: New South Wales, 192 per cent; Victoria, 76 per cent; Queensland, 122 per cent; South Australia, 69 per cent; Western Australia, 1 14 per cent; and Tasmania, 48 per cent. There is a range in the figures to allow for various means of calculation. It can therefore be said that the dairy industry has been well and truly protected and has not lived in the environment of the wool and beef industries which have had to stagger from one difficult season to another. If one considers the level of protection given to fluid milk producers in New South Wales and the price disparity between fluid milk and manufacturing milk, one can see how wicked were the actions of the last LiberalNational Country Party Government, in the decade it was in office. 
In a survey of the dairy industry by the BAE for the years 1 967 to 1 970, the following regional prices for milk were quoted: Region 1, the north coast, 17c per gallon; region 2, the Hunter region, 3 1.7c per gallon; the metropolitan region, 40.7c per gallon; region 4, the far south coast, 23.5c per gallon; and region 5, the inland region, 20.6c per gallon. Surely the questions of equity and the allocation of resources must arise when we have such a vast difference in the price structure. The average price paid for fluid milk was 47.2c per gallon and for manufacturing milk 16.1c per gallon. Region 1 is the north coast, and we know which political party represents the people in that area in the State and Federal parliaments. The same disparity in milk prices has continued for many years. 
So we had a situation where Federal LiberalCountry Party governments were telling the dairy industry what good fellows they were, knowing that two-thirds of the subsidy was going to Victoria and little or nothing to the north coast, the far south coast and the inland butter producers in New South Wales and in Queensland. While State Liberal-Country Party governments denied access to the north coast, far south coast and inland milk producers, the richer metropolitan producers were getting the cream of the markets. That is why we say that inadequate attention has been given to the industry and that it has been betrayed by the inactivity of the Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The argument has been put that the higher price was needed to guarantee fluid milk supply all year round. Whilst this is true to some extent it is certainly not true to the extent that zoning and quotas were practised. The inequitable aspects of the practice of this policy were aided and abetted by former New South Wales Liberal and Country Party Ministers who themselves held quotas for considerable periods of time and were cutting the throats of dairy farmers in non-quota areas. It is no wonder that the milk issue in New South Wales became such a burning issue in the last New South Wales State elections. The dairy farmers in these areas were betrayed and are still being betrayed by the failure of the Federal Government to come up with a worthwhile plan to solve the problems facing the industry. I wonder how much longer it will be before dairy farmers wake up to what has happened. 
The Bill, which we support, relates to research and promotion. It is certain that in the past, and until recent times, the industry has been so structured that promotion was either not encouraged, positively discouraged or bungled to the detriment of the industry. The industry unfortunately has always resisted change. Any industry that is unable properly to look at itself, which allows itself to be fragmented and which has squabbling among its own leaders as well as being saddled with an impotent and irrelevant government and having an outdated industry structure would be in the mess that the dairy industry is in. Just as the Country Party failed to serve the interests of its own dairy farmer supporters, industry organisations over the years have failed to serve their industry and it is about time that those members in the industry, the rank and file of the organisation, realised it. We hear a great deal about the need for the rank and file to assert themselves in the trade union movement. It is equally important for the rank and file dairy farmer to start to assert in his own interests his objectives so that those who represent him politically and in his own organisations can tackle the task of reconstruction of the industry. I am not saying that there have not been men of goodwill in the industry. Of course there are men of good will in it and in the Government and in the organisations, but the dispute between the various organisations, particularly in Victoria over the years, and the dispute between the quota and non-quota holders in New South Wales, have done nothing to help the general interests of dairy farmers. I hope that honourable senators opposite will accept that as a fair comment. 
I was amazed to read the findings of the Victoria board of inquiry into the activities of various people and organisations who were elected supposedly to help the industry. At best from a reading of that evidence one is entitled to draw the conclusion that a lot of self-interest and even corruption has existed in the way the industry has kept itself divided and in the interests of those who gained from that division. We have farmer representatives on the Equalisation Committee saying that they were representing the Committee and not the farmers. Yet time and again representations are being made by farmers seeking to be represented on the boards and committees concerned with different sections of agriculture. I am sure they are there to represent the rank and file viewpoint and to represent the best interests of the industry. We had individuals on these various committees utilising the knowledge gained to further their own interests. In less polite circles this would be referred to as insider trading. We all have heard comments in this place over recent years about how detrimental that is to the general interests of the stock exchange. 
When the Labor Government was in office between 1972 and 1975 it moved to eliminate some of the impediments to sensible industry organisation by the establishment of the Australian Dairy Corporation comprising people of expertise. Unfortunately, the same conservative people, the same conservative forces who had impeded industry progress set about whiteanting that organisation and the individuals in it. It is a matter of great regret that that organisation which has the very important task of trying to get some understanding within the industry has had its efforts hamstrung by some of those individuals to whom I have referred. Unfortunately, the Queenslanders have been successful in hamstringing some of the most capable industry people who have been endeavouring to put the interests of the industry above self-interest. 
Despite all the promises in the election last year and all its huffing and puffing when in Opposition, the Government now must be described as procrastinating on the dairy industry. As I said 6 months ago, the plight of the industry arose out of the problems of the European Economic Community which were known. A report was presented to the Parliament in 1961. In the short time we were in Government we tried genuinely to put the industry into more order, to get a better understanding of what was facing the industry. We had an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into the industry and would have acted on the findings of that inquiry had we not been dismissed by the same conservative forces which have kept the industry divided and which place self-interest above the interests of the nation and the interests of the industry. I believe from discussions which I have been having with farm leaders in recent times that the farmers are beginning to wake up to the fact that they have been conned into supporting a Government that has not taken any basic structural initiatives to solve the difficulties that the industry is facing. The IAC report which was delivered in October 1975 would have been acted upon by a Labor Government and I cannot understand the reluctance of  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Fraser,  and those who make the decisions in this Government, to implement all the recommendations of that report. 
Another report was delivered some months ago- again it has not been acted upon- setting out the long term situation of the dairy industry. So the ball is in the Government's court and it is about time it kicked it into play and we got some legislation that will go some way towards introducing stability and prosperity in the industry. That is what the dairy farmers want and while they may be at one another's throats in the realisation of those objectives, it is up to governments, particularly the national Government, to take the initiatives which are necessary to put the industry on a firm and stable basis. 
By agreement with the Government, I shall move a number of amendments together so that we may debate them conjointly and save some of the time which seems to be taken in dealing with these matters. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is it the wish of the Committee to take all the amendments together? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I move: 
In the Schedule, clause (3), sub-clause (1), at end of sub-clause, add the following definition: " 'rural producers' means any person engaged in the pastoral, horticultural, agricultural or fishing industries, or any one or more of these industries. ". 
In the Schedule, Part 1- General Principles, para- graph (a), leave out 'and pastoral', insert '.pastoral and fishing'. 
In the Schedule, Pan 7- Household Support, clause (3), paragraph ( 1 ), leave out the words 'less any household support assistance paid to him prior to adjusting out of farming'. 
In the Schedule, at end of schedule, add the following new Pan: 'Part 8- 
The purpose of these Bills, which are concerned with the apple and pear industry, is to provide for the imposition and collection of levies on the production and sale in Australia of apples and pears and a charge on apples and pears exported from Australia. The need for these new measures arises because of the steep decline that has taken place in the export trade, particularly in respect of apples. The Senate has discussed this matter from time to time. The measures are necessary also because the Apple and Pear Corporation is lacking the necessary financial resources to carry out its functions adequately, particularly those functions related to the development and promotion of the Australian domestic market. 
The Opposition supports the legislation. It recognised the problems faced by the industry when the then Government brought about a reorganisation of the industry in 1974 and reformed the Apple and Pear Board into the Apple and Pear Corporation. Of course, more changes are necessary if we are to overcome the problems that have been referred to for many years in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, particularly by the Tasmanian representatives who have spoken about the problems of the industry. 
It would appear that nothing has happened to bring about any substantial change in the nature of the industry or in creating conditions of stability. It is a matter of regret that the Government has continued to fail to take the restructuring action essential for the industry. The need to restructure the industry and to create some stability cannot be denied as the present methods of marketing and promotion have proven to be unsuccessful. 
The record of the industry indicates its poor state of health over the past few years. This position is unlikely to improve in the future. An Industries Assistance Commission report has been unable to predict accurately the future of the apple and pear industry as it relates to the export market. With the permission of the Senate I would like to incorporate in  Hansard,  rather than read to the Senate, the comments of the IAC in this respect. 
-The States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill 1 976 now before the Parliament is probably the most significant piece of rural legislation considered this year. It sets the framework in which assistance for adjustment purposes will be provided by the Commonwealth and administered by the relevant States. To the degree that it measures some part of the problem and goes some way along the road, the Opposition is prepared to support the legislation. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech stated that the legislation seeks to rationalise the various forms of rural adjustment presently operating under separate legislation- the rural reconstruction scheme, the dairy assistance program and the beef carry-on finance scheme- into one comprehensive scheme which covers all rural producers. In supporting the amalgamation of these various forms of rural adjustment, the Opposition believes that there should be one comprehensive scheme. We support the additional provisions included in the legislation relating to farm improvement carryon finance, household support and an increase in the rehabilitation loan to selected applicants from $3,000 to $5,000. 
The Opposition wishes to state clearly, however, that it does not consider that the legislation goes far enough in establishing structural adjustment assistance as a future tool of agricultural policy. Hence the Opposition intends to move some amendments, but in particular an amendment to the schedule of the Bill at page 13 to set up a National Rural Adjustment Board to monitor the administration of the provisions of this very important form of assistance to the rural sector. The Opposition proposes also that this form of assistance should be made available to the fishing industry, which to date appears to be excluded from access to adjustment assistance. We will be moving amendments to have these producers brought within the ambit of the present scheme. 
Before examining the provisions of the Bill in detail, it would be appropriate to examine some of the quite significant structural changes which have occurred in agriculture in recent years, the factors which have produced these changes and how the rural sector has responded to changes in the economic environment. It is important to do this if we are to come to some understanding of the role that government can and should play in facilitating the process of structural adjustment. 

 Senator Wright from time to time has spoken at great length about what he believes are the problems of adjustment in the rural sector. But it has to be pointed out to him that in the decade 1965 to 1975, for example, Commonwealth funds to the degree of $2,258m were paid out in form of direct subsidies and bounties to the rural sector. Because they were across-the-board types of subsidies there came about an imbalance within various sectors of agriculture as resources flowed into those sectors in which assistance produced a higher than average rate of income. Even within the period of the Labor Government $843m was paid out in those 3 years for the purpose of assistance to the rural sector. So when resources flow incorrectly from one sector to another, we get an imbalance. Then, subsequently, we are faced with problems associated with export markets such as the access to markets which is now denied to Australian agricultural producers. Clearly structural difficulties are involved also. I have heard Ministers of this 
Government in recent dmes, not only in the Parliament but also in the media generally, referring to the strutural difficulties that exist in agriculture and in manufacturing industry in Australia. That is where we are at. That is why these sorts of Bills are essential. That is why it is necessary to have the Industries Assistance Commission carrying out an objective analysis of the situation, industry by industry, so that we may understand the changes that take place, sector by sector. 
Since the mid- 1930s the percentage of the population living in rural areas has declined significantly. According to the IAC, as well as to statistics generally, the male rural work force has declined from 26 per cent of the total employed males in 1921 to 8 per cent in 1971. The latest figures show an even more significant decline in the work force in rural sectors down to 6.3 per cent. I say to  Senator Wright,  who is trying to interject, that all that has taken place in the period in which the conservative governments were in office. It was not the result of a Whitlam Government, or a Curtin Government or a Chifley Government; it was part of the inevitable evolution that has been taking place in agriculture in all the developing countries in the West. We have seen a gradual reduction in the number of farms, an increase in their average size and in their productivity, and considerable diversification in production. As the crisis on the land had deepend we have seen the farmer and his family turn to off-farm sources of income in an endeavour to stay on their properties. Surely no honourable senator could disagree that that is the objective reality of today. 
The factors which have brought about these adjustments in the industry structure are numerous. They include the general level of economic activity at home and abroad which affects the demand for rural produce. I refer, for example, to the decline in consumption of beef in the United States and Japan after the oil crisis in 1973 as the domestic levels of inflation increased in those countries. Then there is the denial of access to our products to overseas markets. I refer also to the increasing availability and application of new farm technology, climatic conditions, assistance policies pursued often in different directions by governments, Commonwealth and State, and of course fluctuations in the exchange rate. All these things have tremendous influences on and implications to the farmer. 
It is on this last aspect that the Government's credibility has been destroyed. Quite apart from the untold damage brought to our international financial reputation by the Government's rather embarrassing inability to reach a decision on the value of the Australian dollar, the Government has carefully and quite deceitfully disguised the long term impact of this devaluation on the cost structure of primary production.  Senator Walters,  in making her contribution to the debate on the apple and pear legislation, showed how she fails to understand the effect devaluation will have ultimately on the whole rural scene. It may well be that farmer leaders believe that the decision will be beneficial to them, but I gather than very shortly they will have a different point of view. 
The Opposition is aware of the immediate cash benefit to certain rural producers as a result of devaluation. It is also acutely aware of the long term costs which the rural producer will be forced to face as a consequence of devaluation. I agree with the remarks of  Senator Wright  about freight costs.  Senator Cotton  will agree that the invisibles play a significant part in our balance of trade situation. That factor will be a minus in respect of devaluation. It will have a significant effect on both those rural producers who have shared in the short term gains of devaluation and those who have not shared at all. Many sectors of the economy rely on access to markets and therefore devaluation will be of very little assistance. 
The farmer faces a long term loss situation if the dollar is revalued significantly. He faces the prospect of a confirmed high rate of domestic inflation if the inflow of capital expected after this devaluation materialises, and that will take place for sure. He cannot be insulated forever against the economic realities of a rise in interest rates which apply to the community generally, no matter what action this Government may take to try to insulate the rural sector from interest rates. The farmer also faces the prospect of a long term squeeze on his income from a rising domestic cost structure and because of the high level of protection now afforded many of the manufactured inputs he consumes and the rising costs of inputs he imports. If considerable pressure had not been brought to bear on the Government it would have been prepared to let the sleeping dog lie in the tariff front. In the long term the rural producers would have been worse off. As it is many of the selective tariff cuts announced in the last few days do not apply to inputs consumed by the farmer. The Opposition can see only troubled waters ahead for the rural sector and a continuation of considerable pressure on this sector to adjust. I am not suggesting that every recommendation that comes out of the Industries Assistance Commission needs implementation or that the recommendations are necessarily correct, but they at least provide the basis for an active government to react and to legislate. 
The Government promised the rural sector producer domestic stability. All it has delivered is the prospect of long term domestic instability The Government promised sound economic management, and all the farmer has received is chaos in domestic economic policy. The Government 's failure in economic management- that is what is being said in all the newspapers today and by all the commentators- makes the establishment of an effective structural adjustment policy even now more imperative than in the past. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in its comments on the Australian farm situation in 1975-76 states: 
A feature of the rural sectors in Australia has been the speed and the magnitude of the changes in the economic environment affecting different rural industries and the capacity they have shown to adjust autonomously. 
Given these quite dramatic changes which have occurred in the structure of the rural sector in recent years, the challenge for government is to establish and maintain a constructive assistance policy aimed at improving the mobility and the productivity of resources employed in agriculture. By adopting such an approach government is not being intrusive. I disagree fundamentally with  Senator Wright  that government should stay out of agriculture as much as possible. The Government needs to move in. We need more government not less government in agriculture if agriculture is to have any future at all in the next 20 years. By adopting such a policy it acknowledges that it has an important role to play where the process of adjustment is impeded by certain factors. 
It is quite a feature of this Government that on the last day of every session of Parliament since this Government came to office we have dealt with rural matters. For example, at the end of the Autumn session in June last, I spoke 5 times on 5 rural Bills. The same process has been followed yesterday and today. That illustrates where priorities lie with this Government. 
Governments have an important role to play where the process of adjustment is impeded by certain factors, where considerable social and economic costs are involved, and for individuals and society in general because of the need to adjust. These impediments include the immobility of some rural capital, imperfections in the capital market, the limited off-farm occupational opportunities in rural areas and a natural reluctance and often inability for farmers to relocate. 
It is obvious from the advances which have been made under this legislation that the Government has based its consideration on the form of structural adjustment assistance appropriate to the rural sector on the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its rural report of 1 January 1976. The Opposition asks: Why has the Government chosen to implement only half of the recommendations in that report? We are prepared to give legislative support to a concerted effort which, we feel, should be made now to establish the necessary administrative machinery at the national level to cope with the continued need that will exist for rural adjustment measures as a natural consequence of this Government's ill-conceived economic policies. 
Broadly, the IAC has made 2 recommendations relating to the future direction and administration of government adjustment assistance policy. It has recommended the amalgamation of industry-oriented schemes into one rural adjustment scheme covering all farmers in the rural sector. How important and imperative that proposal is- if a farmer is to be encouraged to move from one sector, obviously he needs assistance to know to which other sector he should movewith the inclusion of certain new provisions relating to farm improvement in this legislation, carry on finance and household support in the scheme. This part of the Commission's recommendations has fortunately been incorporated in the new adjustment measures proposed by the Government and supported by the Opposition. 
In its report, the Commission has mounted some very persuasive considerations for the construction of a single adjustment scheme, many of which relate directly to the defects now evident in all of the previous schemes. The Commission has recommended the creation of the national rural adjustment scheme to co-ordinate, evaluate and plan rural adjustment assistance. It is the creation of such a board which is the substance of the main amendment proposed by the Opposition. The Opposition takes the view that there is little benefit in attempting to rectify the deficiencies existing in previous rural adjustment schemes and to amalgamate the various schemes into one scheme without providing adequate machinery at the national level to ensure that the administration of the scheme is equitable and effectively administered. 
It is no good leaving this to the nuances and the influences of one State against another. A national initiative is required. In these processes, no State should be disadvantaged. The desired policy objectives of Government should be achieved in this way. Therefore, in Une with the recommendations of the IAC, the Opposition proposes that a national rural adjustment board be created with a full executive  chairman,  2 part time members from rural industry and 2 members drawn from the various State rural reconstruction authorities and selected on a rotational basis for a term of not more than 2 years. This would give the essential co-ordination that is necessary to implement such a scheme. The important feature of the proposal is that it will give primary producers direct access to policy making machinery at the national level through the 2 rural representatives who will sit on the board. 
The IAC also outlined many constructive considerations in its report on the various functions that such a board could perform. The Opposition has included these considerations in its amendment as a guideline to the proposed method of operation for such a board. Among the functions proposed for the board are that it should consult with State reconstruction authorities and federal and State departments on the annual fund requirements of the national rural adjustment scheme and arrange consultation between State reconstruction authorities and the Australian Government concerning emergency short term credit requirements when farm incomes are substantially reduced by a sudden market collapse or other severe situation. As a producer,  Mr Deputy President,  you would know that this constantly happens. It should discuss and liaise with State reconstruction authorities and agencies concerned with monitoring market prospects, such as the various commodity boards and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, to ensure that viability assessments are based on the most up to date information available. 
What appals me is the lack of farm intelligence information. There is very little of it available to enable farmers to make an assessment based on market trends and influences. We also need to monitor the progress of reconstruction clients including those assessed not to have sound prospects of long-term commercial viability. We need to evaluate the rural adjustment schemes in terms of explicit policy objectives and guidelines. We need research into the relative effects of various assistance measures in anticipation of responding to continuing adjustment pressures. We need to conduct feasibility studies and to evaluate areas with specific problems in adjustment and redevelopment proposals suggested by interested parties and other government agencies, and to liaise at the national level with management of banks and other sources of farm credit. 
The Opposition calls upon the Government to demonstrate its sincerity with regard to this form of assistance to the rural sector and to accept the Opposition's amendments. Considering this legislation in detail, the Opposition supports the farm build-up, debt reconstruction and rehabilitation provisions which have been taken from previous reconstruction legislation, and supports the various additional provisions such as farm improvement, carry-on finance and, with one amendment, the household support scheme contained in the Bill. 
Having some regard to the time factor, I move on to that section of the Bill which seeks to look at the rehabilitation provisions. The Opposition supports the Government's proposals to increase the level of assistance from $3000 to $5000 but the Opposition is concerned that the Government in its haste to pass this legislation- and let us bear in mind that it is a hastily prepared piece of legislation which was introduced into the House of Representatives less than a week ago, not giving the Opposition adequate time to consider the implications, and introduced into this chamber several days ago to be passed todayhas ignored many important issues relating to the scope of adjustment assistance measures and the financial terms on which moneys will be made available to prospective farmer clients. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report was concerned that adequate counselling services be provided to inform farm families of the various provisions of the scheme, and that is an integral part of any readjustment scheme. The report also referred to the need to extend the counselling services available to applicants who receive assistance under the scheme to include management advice, and for those assessed as non-viable in agriculture, adequate counselling to alert those farm families to the options available to them outside the sector. As  Senator Wright  said in his speech on another Bill a few moments ago, there are farmers planting more fruit trees although we have a tree-pull scheme under which they are being pulled out elsewhere. This shows the absurdity of lack of direction by the national government. 
The Australian Labor Party supports this important part of the adjustment assistance with special purpose grants to improve the scope of state extension services to cater for the counselling needs of viable and non-viable farmers and the Opposition requests the Government to give similar consideration to this important aspect of adjustment assistance. With regard to the rate of interest at which loans will be made available to recipients under the various provisions of the legislation, the Opposition seeks clarification on whether the Government has or has not accepted the IAC recommendation that the long-term bond rate be the basic rate of interest for loans made for rural adjustment purposes. The Opposition is concerned that concessions may be built into the notion of longterm viability and that such a course of action may militate against the long-term effectiveness of the scheme. In seeking this clarification the Opposition notes that in the existing provisions of the legislation considerable discretion is given to the State administrative authority in dealing with individual farmers in that scope exists to schedule repayments and to defer repayments in accordance with the farmer's financial capacity to meet early commitments. The Opposition considers that procedures for review of this scheme are inadequate and, therefore, should be strengthened in the legislation. This would occur if the Opposition's amendment pertaining to the proposed national Rural Reconstruction Board were accepted. We regard regular reviews as being an essential part of the flexible operation of the scheme. 
The Opposition is concerned also that the legislation does not go far enough in its consideration of special assistance to selected industries and the need for area adjustment measures. The carry-on finance provisions in the Bill can be implemented when a particular industry faces a severe economic down-turn. The Opposition is concerned at the impact that such an event could have on the economics of a regional area predominantly dependent upon a rural industry. The Opposition sees the situation arising where adjustment assistance beyond the farm gate would be necessary. It believes that the proposed national rural readjustment board could play a valuable role in identifying such situations and advising the Government on appropriate policy measures. 
The options facing Government policy makers with regard to the more general question of assistance to the rural sector are perfectly clear to the Opposition. If we can see them, the Government, with all the economic advisers it has at its elbow, should be able to see them. We have the choice of continuing the protective forms of assistance which have been the hallmark of the present Government's assistance policy- a policy commonly referred to as a policy of subsidy and concession, regressive in its operation, inward-looking and not applying itself to the basic problems of readjustment- or of devising new assistance policies which are rational in their conception and dynamic in their operation and which afford the rural producer the prospect of long-term viability with a minimum of government assistance. 
The rural producers' attitude is clear. The rural sector wants to reduce its dependence on government assistance in the long term. It demands that the Government pursue rational assistance measures with regard to manufacturing industry and it demands that the Government pursue rational policies in relation to itself. That as been made abundantly clear to me in recent months. The Labor Party believes that the resources of a responsible government, through its assistance policy, should be employed in facilitating the process of structural adjustment where the costs to individuals and to society of those changes are deemed to be excessive. An important opportunity exists, therefore, for the Government to move away from its past assistance policies, which have encouraged farmers to move into areas of production which are now proven to be uneconomic, and to pursue more rational policies aimed at improving the mobility and productivity of resources employed in the rural sector. That is the Labor Party's approach and that is the only approach which will secure long-term growth and efficiency in the rural sector. 

 - Mr President, at this late stage in the session, it is extremely difficult to consider seriously some of the complexities and implications arising from the 4 Bills that the Senate is now debating, especially the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976 and the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1976, which deal with substantial changes relating to the write-off of certain mining investments and associated aspects. The Opposition has mixed reactions to the measures. We have no objection to the deductibility of expenditure on railway transport facilities, harbour surveys, additional dredging, navigational aids and breakwaters, but we do have reservations about the shortening of the write-off period from 25 years to 10 years for other assets. There is a series of policy aspects involved with this matter and they have been best covered by the Opposition's earlier statements on minerals and energy policies. The Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1976 which increases the retention allowance for undistributed income from 50 per cent to 60 per cent will have some advantages. It will allow some smaller businesses, particularly those which are privately owned and are in industries where cash is needed, to have stock accumulation on a short term basis. However, like all tax measures, it does leave the opportunity for abuse and I hope that the Taxation Office will closely scrutinise the operation of this measure and report to the Parliament if there are abuses. 
I specifically address myself more to the proposed new division of the Income Tax Amendment Bill (No. 3) which deals with the Government's income equalisation deposit scheme. The Loan (Drought Bonds) Amendment Bill permits the conversion of stock under the drought bounds scheme into an income equalisation deposit on application and is supported by the Opposition. The income equalisation deposit scheme, or perhaps more popularly known as the IED scheme, as legislated for in the 3 Bills before the Senate, is different in operation from that envisaged and described by the Minister at the time of the last Budget. Reductions under the scheme are to be limited to taxable income other than income from property and are not to exceed 40 per cent of gross primary production income for the particular year of income. Thus income from gross primary production only can be deposited, not non-farm income as previously announced. I am sure that it was the public comment which arose out of the proposals that were announced in the Budget and the reaction that came from that announcement which has caused the Government to reassess the scheme and to amend its earlier proposal. 
However, the Government has continued to refuse the advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in relation to the payment of interest. It has insisted that interest be paid on the full amount deposited. The IAC in its earlier consideration of these proposals, rather than just the legislation, was critical of this solution. In its report entitled  Rural Income Fluctuations- Certain Taxation Measures  published on 30 June 1 975, at page 9 it stated: 
The payment of interest on the full face value of the I.E.D. would be unsatisfactory. Depositors would thus receive interest on the deferred tax component of the deposit Taxpayers should not receive any benefit from the actual deferral of tax. Moreover, the payment of interest on the tax component gives greatest advantage to taxpayers with high incomes. The Commission considers it unsatisfactory that a scheme intended to allow all taxpayers to smooth their taxable incomes should unduly favour persons on high incomes. 
The Opposition believes that there is a need to alleviate the problems with which persons on fluctuating incomes are faced. The inequities of our present tax system are well known to the community, the Opposition, the Government and its advisers. There is a real need to research and fundamentally alter the tax system so that no undue burden falls on producers and the work force. 
The reason the Opposition is supporting the IED scheme in general principle, although we have some misgivings about the precise nature of this legislation, is that the Australian Labor Party in its updating of its rural policy decided to support this as a very desirable amendment to the existing taxation system. Schemes of this nature are to be applauded as they are directed to alleviating the tax burden falling on persons for no other reason than that they have large fluctuating incomes. The real concern of the Opposition is that the scheme does not achieve in full what it should be designed to achieve and the Government seems to be adopting the attitude that once legislation for income equalisation is passed it will relieve the Government of its responsibilities to rural producers, particularly those producers suffering a drastic drop in real farm income from last year's low level, a drop which has not been substantially improved by the Government's manipulation of the exchange rate. In fact, this scheme does not give any short term relief to producers in genuine need and we believe, therefore, that those farmers who have little or no income- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has referred to this himself on many occasions- will not be interested in placing money in the IED scheme because they do not have the money to do so. The long term implications of the scheme are to be applauded to the extent that it mitigates against the detrimental tax burden falling on farmers with fluctuating incomes. If, as I think, it purports to be a scheme to achieve equity between taxpayers it is only fair that the operation of the scheme is placed under close scrutiny to determine to what extent it is equitable. 
The IAC, as I have indicated, has criticised inequitable situations which the payment of interest on full term deposits would achieve. If such a scheme is put into operation to do equity it should not have this inbuilt inequitable provision which unduly favours persons on higher incomes. The Government has not answered this charge in the other place or generally. Nor has it indicated in the second reading speech the reasons it ignored the recommendations of the IAC. I am not suggesting that the IAC is necessarily correct in all of its conclusions or recommendations, but I think that when it does make recommendations in matters of this nature, the Government should indicate why it sets them aside. No one denies the right of the Government to go against the IAC recommendations. But as a Parliament we are surely entitled, as the Australian people are also entitled, to know what the reasons are for ignoring the advice. 
In introducing a worthwhile scheme such as this, the Government is spoiling it in order to obtain an additional benefit for that minority of wealthy farmers- I stress a minority- which may consider it worthwhile to place large sums into the scheme. In my discussions with farm leaders, they indicated that they can see some advantages to them but if they are able to have a levelling out of their income, from a tax point of view, they may be able to ride out the bumps that are encountered in rural production and in market changes. In those circumstances, of course, the scheme has some validity and needs some support. The primary producer members of the Cabinet, for example, who do not rely on farm incomes to survive and who, because of their other activities have a high tax liability, can place up to 40 per cent of gross primary production income of any year into the scheme and receive the 5 per cent interest on the full sum lodged. As I had indicated in my speech on the Budget, people on high incomes gain quite considerably under the scheme and are not the sort of people who need assistance. A taxpayer with income above $28,250, who pays 65 cents tax on every dollar, will be able to deposit the excess for 12 months, provided it is derived from primary production, and does not exceed 40 per cent of the income from that production, and receive an effective interest rate on it of 14.3 per cent, and that is inequitable. 
I feel sure no more encouragement need be given to those sorts of persons. The Government has to be condemned for not accepting the criticism and removing this inequity. By contrast, most genuine farmers will not be receiving such benefits under the scheme. The thrifty smallscale farmer, for example, who is able in a good year to save a couple of thousand dollars and has a much smaller tax liability because, for example, his income is from $6,000 to $ 10,000 a year, does not have a large deferred tax component on the sum deposited under the scheme. It is true that he is also obtaining5 per cent on the full sum deposited, but he would be doing much better if he paid the tax, and invested the balance of the sum at a much higher commercial rate of interest. At lease he would keep ahead of inflation. 
It would have been more equitable for small farmers if the Government had followed the IAC report and had decided to raise the rate of interest payable closer to a commercial rate of interest on that sum deposited which was not a deferred tax component. In a sense, by not accepting this recommendation, the Government is playing a cynical confidence trick on genuine farmers, who are hoping that the scheme will assist them, when in fact, it will only have a limited effect. It would appear that if the Government had not decided to pay interest on the full sum deposited there would have been no need to restrict the scheme to primary producers, and income derived from primary production. Surely it is not beyond the capabilities of our draftsmen to formulate a non-exploitable scheme which would cover all persons who have undue tax burdens placed on them because they have large fluctuations in their incomes from year to year. 
I believe rural producers do not want to be singled out for special treatment. I believe they would have no objection if the scheme was made available to all taxpayers whether they are artists, architects or rural producers. This view is supported by the IAC which, in its recommendations, indicated that it could see no reason why the IED scheme should not be made available to all taxpayers. Of course, that is an equitable position and one which should have been reached by the Government. Instead, the scheme is confined to rural producers and to rural incomes, primarily because the Government- 
I am reading from notes; I am not reading a speech. I am reading from notes which have been prepared. After all, 

 Senator Cotton avails himself of second reading speeches. 
Yes. I believe that consideration of taxation legislation, which is highly technical, requires the use of a considerable amount of notes. It is the Opposition's concern that these benefits, which should be available to all taxpayers, in fact are benefiting one particular section of the community. That arises from the complicated and clumsy way in which the legislation has been drafted. I seek the Minister's advice as to whether a person who has deposited a sum under the scheme can use that deposit, whether directly or indirectly, as security for obtaining on the open market a sum of money equivalent to the sum deposited. The Opposition would like some assurance as to whether in fact there will be restrictions on those who deposit their money in the IED scheme then being able to take it on to the money market and seek certain advantages there. There is ambiguity in the legislation in respect of that matter. The legislation provides that sums cannot be transferred from persons to persons, but can they be transferred from persons to companies? That is the sort of complexity in the legislation which we would like answered by the Government. In his second reading speech  Senator Cotton  stated: 
The total accumulated deductions at any one time, allowable to a depositor in respect of amounts lodged under the scheme or as drought bonds, will be subject to an upper limit of $100,000. 
That upper limit of $100,000, however, can be easily sidestepped- implicit recognition of that fact is found in the legislation- by a depositor who creates partnerships, nominal or otherwise, in companies in order to split his or her income. By doing so, each partner or company created is entitled to deductions up to $100,000, even though only one enterprise is involved. It is those sorts of anomalies which we believe ought to be answered by the Government. 
A number of members of the Opposition wanted to discuss this legislation, but in the interests of trying to complete the session they have surrendered their rights to rise and discuss these matters and have sought the opportunity for me to raise them with the Government. We are concerned with the income averaging scheme, which is not provided for in any legislation. It seems to me that there ought to be some explanation from the Minister as to why the Government has not implemented the IAC recommendation to abolish the $16,000 limit on incomes eligible for averaging and so institute a transition provision comparable with those provided in 1966 for the removal of the $16,000 limit. There are a number of matters which need to be raised, but the Government knows that the Bills have the support of the Opposition. It knows that even if the Opposition had moved any amendments which might have sought to iron out some of the difficulties and anomalies that we believe exist in this legislation, there would be little chance of the Senate agreeing to them. While the Opposition does not oppose the legislation, it rebukes the Government for not providing Australians with a fluctuating income, a non-discriminatory, non-exploitable tax planning system which would be of benefit to all Australians. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the then Minister for Supply,  Mr Garland,  state on 14 September 1972 'All radio-active waste buried at three places in Australia, Monte Bello, Emu and Maralinga resulted from experiments conducted at those places'. 
What radio-active material is buried there and what is the life span of such material and ofthe containers in which this material was buried. 
Has the maintenance of this area been brought to the attention of the Government. 
What precautions have been taken in the past, or are proposed to be taken in the future to ensure that the radioactive waste is not interfered with or exposed to the atmosphere. 
What measures have been taken to ensure that the full knowledge of the existence of the material is passed from Government to Government and from generation to generation. 
In view of the Government's decision on the Fox Inquiry and the potential danger to the Australian people from the lethal legacy of the past, will the Minister treat these matters as urgent. 
-My question is directed to  Senator Withers  in his capacity as Minister for Administrative Services as well as in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister, and to some extent it relates to his answer to the opening question by  Senator Wriedt  today. Will the Minister indicate why the consumer price index figures for the December 1976 quarter have not been announced? Does the Minister acknowledge that the rates of inflation in the previous 3 quarters of 1976- September, June and March- were 2.2 per cent, 2.5 per cent and 3 per cent respectively, and that if the December quarter rate exceeds 5 per cent, as has been suggested, this means that the rise in the consumer price index during 1976 was 1 per cent higher than in 1975 or that it is running now at the rate of 12.7 per cent? Does this indicate that the Government's economic policy is not working? How can the Government therefore claim that it is not losing the fight against inflation? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the estimated increase of $17 per week in net farm income projected for 1976-77 by the Minister for Primary Industry as a result of the recent devaluation, by what amount is this marginal gain eroded by the Government's decision to revalue. 
What is the estimated loss to net farm income in the remainder of the 1976-77 financial year caused by revaluation. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that we are deeply concerned at the threat to the continuation of symphony orchestras throughout Australia posed by the I.A.C. and Green reports. 
We believe that the Government should not allow the symphony orchestras of Australia to be reduced in any way at all. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that your honourable House will take steps to ensure the continuation and growth of our symphony orchestras, thereby ensuring that the quality of life of the people of this country shall be maintained. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation met the Minister for Primary Industry yesterday afternoon and that the Government was requested to agree to the Corporation 's 1973 wool marketing plan? Is it a fact that the Minister indicated to the  Chairman  of the AWC that the Australian Government would not agree to implement the plan? Is the Minister able to indicate the reasons for the Government's rejection of this important plan which has the support of many of the producer organisations? 
The Senate, in debating the state of the national economy, is endeavouring to bring before the Australian people the serious plight that faces so many sections of the Australian community and seeks to express a point of view in respect to the economic management policies pursued by this Government since it came to office some 15 months ago. Of course, we will recall that the conservatives of this Government used the state of the economy as the basis for a great deal of the strategy and tactics to take office. This was because of the problems that beset the Whitlam Government during its 3 years of office. It is interesting that all of the Government speakers on this subject and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have stressed the need for a total 3-year period in order to carry out a policy of economic management. That courtesy was not extended to the Labor Government. Therefore, one has to take issue with the document which was put down on Tuesday in the other place and here in the Senate. On closer examination it can be shown to be a document of deceit and deception, a document which must be regarded as something of a joke. I do not think anyone in his right mind can really defend a statement that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  made in the Senate on Tuesday. He said: 
. 1976 was a year of considerable progress towards the 3 year goals we have set ourselves in bringing Australia 's economic problems under control. 
Nobody in the Australian community can accept that we have made any progress in overcoming the economic difficulties which are part of a world-wide trend and which, of course, found their reflection at their highest point in the years in which we were in government. I do not know from where  Senator Cotton  or the other Government spokesmen get their information or in what way they form their conclusions. One has only to read the newspapers to know the position. I am not talking necessarily about the editorials but about statements by business leaders, bank officers,, trade union leaders, community leaders generally as well as State government leaders to appreciate that nobody accepts that we have made any appreciable progress in this direction. I would say that the document is somewhat of a joke. It is to gull the gullible and to fool the fools. It is clearly a sop to the Government back benchers who have correctly been described as oncers and who have been beguiled into believing that somehow the figures which have been produced in the statement and in the contributions made in the Parliament are pointing to some form of economic recovery. 
Australia today has the highest unemployment since the Great Depression. It has the highest public debt and the highest deficit. One only has to look at the deficit anticipated in the last Budget to realise the position. It has a serious decline in agriculture and in manufacturing industry. Yet we are led to believe that we are on the way to some form of economic recovery. Australia is no exception in respect to the problems that beset other Western countries. These industrialised countries where capital plays the dominant role have growing unemployment, stagnation and over-production. They have problems of distribution and acute problems of growth and private investment. For example, this document sets out to quote the Prime Minister of England who made a certain statement in respect to the problems facing the economy of that country. He is taking a course of action which is being pursued by this Government But it is quite contrary to the course of action being taken by the  President  of the United States of America where similar problems of inflation and unemployment exist. Therefore, one finds it difficult to understand the logic or the reasoning of the Minister when he seeks to say that there ought to be a public debate. But then he says that all of those people who talk and write about the economy do a great deal to undermine public confidence. 
There has been a dramatic change in the world's economic order in recent times. Huge amounts of capital funds have shifted from the developing countries to the former colonial regimes.  Senator Cotton  referred to the Australian capital which we accumulated in the boom years. Is it seriously suggested that if there were some downturn which could be apportioned to the action of the Government over a 2 or 3-year period, it is any different to what has happened in other countries or that that represents the basic problem with which we are confronted today? This shift in investment funds to what capital estimates are growth areas and regions of higher profitability is causing immense difficulties, structural problems and uncertainty in the domestic economies of the developed countries. Unemployment, therefore, has become a permanent feature of all of those economies and, in particular, in our economy. In many ways Australia is now at one of its most dangerous stages in its history. The basis upon which we have developed over the last 100 years is in jeopardy. The country is not in jeopardy because of 3 years under a national Labor Government We have become a pawn in the new international economic pattern which is masterminded by those who control capital on a world scene. We are being forced into a subordinate role by this international capital. International capital now dominates our domestic economy and the real decisions affecting the economy are now being made by people in this area. Even  Senator Cotton  said that this Government had found it necessary and essential to control the inflow and outflow of capital in regard to this country. Therefore, one has to question whether in fact governments must exercise even more control over the way in which capital is placed. 
I believe that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser takes a somewhat passive position in respect to the movement of capital even though I concede that there are members on the government side who are concerned about the movement of capital into and out of this country and about the fact that we now have hundreds of Australian firms associated with multi-national concepts which have in recent times shifted large portions of their capital into off-shore production outside Australia. The invaluable Jackson Committee report highlights the economic problems on the domestic scene. It pointed out that in manufacturing industry the 200 largest enterprises that account for half of the output equalise the output of the 30 000 smaller companies. But eightyseven of these 200 enterprises are foreign owned and their decisions about production, capital placement, imports and so on do not necessarily always correspond to the interests of this country. Contrary to the stated policy of the Fraser Government, this Government does not aim for a consumer led recovery. 
We will recall that in the Budget documents which we debated only a few short months ago the Government's general strategy was to aim for a consumer led recovery and for an investment led recovery. Surely no honourable senator can suggest that those objectives have been reached. They cannot be achieved in respect to a consumer led recovery because this government since it has come to office has followed a very simple principle, namely, that we should reduce the real wages of the consumers- the workers of this country. Of course, the purpose of that would be to prevent a consumer led recovery. If purchasing power and real wages are reduced, how can the people buy the consumer goods that abound in the warehouses and the retail marketplace? I believe that this Government wants the people to unlock their savings from the savings banks. I think that  Senator Cotton  referred to that. He referred to reducing living standards so that international capital can get its hands on the meagre savings of the Australian people and so that capital intensive industries can develop the remaining natural resources of the world. We are talking here of the thousands of millions of dollars that are necessary to develop the energy requirements of the Western world. This Government seems to form part of these pressure groups operating in a country- the technocrats in Treasury who helped to compile the document to which I have referred and the technocrats in the Industries Assistance Commission. I make criticism only of the fact that that organisation has not carried out its full charter. I believe it has an objective role to play in analysing the trends that are taking place within our country. But I believe that in its conclusions it seeks to ignore the most important resource of all, and that is the human being. 
The people to whom I have just referred and important sections of the media, in the so-called interests of consumerism and efficiency, seek to further integrate the Australian economy into the developing world economic pattern, to make Australia serve the interests of foreign capital and to make the ordinary people of Australia pay the piper. Clearly these interests are against the indigenous local manufacturing industries and the unions associated with them. They are disinterested in the various sectors of agriculture and are prepared to reconstruct out of agriculture whole sectors affected by inter-sectoral changes now apparent in this country. These forces want Australia to accept blandly a permanent unemployment rate of up to 7 per cent. They want to maintain a policy of exchange rate manipulation to suit some more profitable areas of our export industries. 
The changes in the Australian domestic economy in recent years have created grave structural problems in agriculture and manufacturing. In a recent Bureau of Agricultural Economics paper,  Dr Miller  has pointed out that the dramatic growth in the mining and tertiary sectors in Australia in the last decade or so has very severely distorted the Australian economy and the economic base of this country. Agriculture, for example, has declined in your active political lifetime,  Mr President,  from something like 25 per cent to 7 per cent. Similiarly, manufacturing is declining. The tertiary sector which now controls 65 per cent of the work force is also declining. In the tertiary sector we have public and private sections. In the public section this Government is carrying out a deliberate policy of making cutbacks in government spending. Of course as a result unemployment is developing within that section. The private section of that tertiary sector is being reduced because of the growth of computerisation and because of the general problems and malaise that affect manufacturing industry. If this Government claims it wants an investment-led recovery, it is not taking the essential steps to which our motion seeks to draw attention. Statistics show that the private section which employs a large part of the work force and entails private capital investment- that is what the Government said it wanted when it talked about investment-led recovery- has been in a decline since 1967. 
The Government's own publication from  Senator Cotton's  Department has pointed out that public investment has declined in five of the last 6 quarters of 1 975-76. The tertiary sector has passed its peak. Like agriculture and manufacturing, it is on the decline. So from an employment point of view, there is no growth potential in agriculture. The tertiary sector is, at best, stagnant and the much vaunted mining sector has minimal employment prospects in the long or short run. Yet the Government's strategy is to develop that sector of the Australian economy. This leaves manufacturing as the only sector where employment opportunities can be either maintained or developed. A government worthy of running this country must place restrictions on Australian industries and Australian capital moving to Asian cheap labour areas. There is a need to monitor closely manufactured goods from Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. Hundreds of Australian companies have closed down their businesses, stopped output here and moved to these cheap labour areas. So apart from the serious domestic implications, we cannot condone the intensive exploitation of the work forces in those countries any more than we can accept this trend that is taking place. 
There are 2 regions in Australia- Queensland and Western Australia- where foreign capital investment now is the major influence. These States have more in common with international capital than Australian capital. Perhaps it is this factor that accounts for the continual conflict between those States and the central government, whether that government be Labor or Liberal. These States want to go even further than  Mr Fraser  who is pragmatic enough to want to hasten slowly to achieve the aims of international capital. However, despite the preponderance of overseas capital in those 2 States, there is no evidence to suggest that the people there are any better off than those in the rest of Australia. We want to place it on the public record that the Australian Labor Party is a full employment party; the Australian Labor Party is for a proper utilisation of the resources of this country, whether they be men, material or funds. We want to place it on record that the sort of problems that exist in this country are structural problems associated with a society in which capital is the predominant force. It is capitalism itself that is failing to produce the sort of stability that is essential in Australia. I conclude my remarks on the basis of the report of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia. It has drawn attention to the problems facing manufacturing industry. The report which was put out at the end of the year states:   it is essential for industry to know the Government's policies and plans, by virtue of the fact that it is a mixed economy, in which the Government exerts a major influence. 
It goes on to say: 
In the past, however, industry's decisions concerning investment and expansion were made against a background of confidence- confidence that despite economic fluctuations there was consensus that for Australia to meet its national objectives, a stable and diversified manufacturing sector was a basic requirement. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and relates to the healthy state of our coal export industry. I ask the Minister: What benefits to the Australian people have flowed from the Government 's decision in the last Budget to phase out the coal export duty at a cost of more than $37m? Will the Government consider reimposing the levy in order to create job opportunities as well as to allocate the funds saved to assist industries such as the ship building industry? I ask also: Is it a fact that the foreign owned and controlled Utah Company Ltd has profited considerably by the levy abolition and that the company's donation of $100,000 to Australian opera is small compensation to the Australian people for the large capital gain given to the foreign shareholders? 
I present the following petition from 6 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress to pensioners. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in age and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the consumer price index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the consumer price index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the very informative report from the Australian Industries Development Association which details the result of a recent business survey? Is the Minister aware that the survey shows that employers are having considerable difficulty in obtaining categories of skilled workers as well as noting deficiencies in existing apprenticeship schemes? As the report says these 'difficulties are not likely to be improved simply by the preservation of high levels of unemployment', can the Minister say what steps, if any, the Government is taking to retrain workers and to train apprentices so that the needs of industry in this period can be met? 
I wish to join with  Senator Bonner  in expressing concern at the events in Uganda in recent years and, in particular, the matter that he dealt with in his contribution to the adjournment debate this evening. I do not think there is any doubt that most people in the world who are aware of the tragic events in Uganda deplore them and would like to see actions taken by the people of Uganda to topple the cruel tyrant which Idi Amin is. The honourable senator was correct in drawing this matter to the attention of the Senate and suggesting that there ought to be a lot of indignation and protest about those events. 
I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of my colleagues on this side of the House when I say that I join with him in deploring the turn of events and the brutal, cold blooded murder of those whose only crime seems to have been that they have simply questioned the regime of Idi Amin or suggested the establishment of a more democratic government than that which prevails in that country. Be that as it may, it is the democratic right of the citizens of any country to determine their own affairs, and if they are guilty of any crime there are processes which may be brought to bear. But we know that the dictatorship that exists in that country is a very brutal one and that since that government came to power 6 years ago many people have suffered at the hands of the tyrant who heads it. 
One is becoming used to this sort of thing. I suppose that to some extent that is the reason the protesters are perhaps not as vocal about this matter as one might normally have expected. There is an increasing tendency in certain parts of the world towards terrorism, brutality, the committing of atrocities, murder and assassination. People have come to expect this sort of thing as part of the process, instead of raising their voices against it every time it takes place. I believe that  Senator Bonner  acted properly and correctly in drawing attention to the failure of people to be more vocal on this matter. After all, the Government of this country has spoken out on it and the newspapers also have been very vocal on it. I do not think it can be said that public opinion has not been very critical of the turn of events there, where highly placed people have been brutally murdered. 
However, the principal reason I have risen to my feet in the adjournment debate tonight is to mention a matter that was raised this morning by  Senator Knight,  that is, alleged atrocities relating to tragic events in our part of the world- East Timor. This morning  Senator Knight  directed a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in which he spoke about allegations of atrocities in East Timor and asked the Minister whether he was aware of such reports and whether he had any information concerning allegations of atrocities by Fretilin forces in East Timor. It was clearly a prepared question because the Minister was able to quote in his reply from documents that were available to him. I can only say that I deplore the attempt to suggest that any activities by the forces of the people of Timor- the forces that were endeavouring to establish the democratic rights of their own form of government- can be equated in any way with the terrible atrocities that have been committed by the Indonesian authorities. I wonder how much the murky finger of the Department of Foreign Affairs was involved in the preparation of that question and the answer to it. The Minister referred in his reply to 2 documents. One related to the massacre in East Timor that I dealt with in this place almost a year ago. At that time I drew attention to the deficiencies, inaccuracies, distortions and exaggerations which appeared on that document and which have been confirmed subsequently in several ways. 
Firstly, honourable senators will be aware that the former Australian consul in Dili,  Mr Dunn-  a person who represented this country there for some years, who has a love for the people and the country, and who is now employed in this Parliament- recently travelled to Portugal and that he has been able to show in a confidential report which I have been privileged to see and which has been made available to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  that persons who are listed as having been massacred by Fretilin forces in Timor are in fact officials of the UDT movement and the Apodeti movement, the 2 other independence movements in East Timor which, with the Fretilin movement, form the three main political groupings in that country. They now find themselves as political refugees in Portugal, which is their sovereign country. He was able to speak to those people and to establish clearly and without any equivocation that they were all alive, and to indicate that the document which was put out by the Indonesian authorities and which was circulated amongst the members of this Parliament was a fraudulent document. 
It is interesting to note that on the very day on which  Mr Dunn  made his statements from Portugal they were reported by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in its 7 o'clock news program. That very evening in the 9 p.m. news program there was a report- I suggest to honourable senators that it was again from unimpeachable sources- from an official of the Captive Nations Organisation in Taiwan who said that he had spoken to Chinese who were present in Dili the day of the Indonesian invasion, and had confirmed that Indonesian regular troops and parachutists had landed in Dili and had in fact carried out a considerable degree of atrocities and massacres in that part. As I have pointed out to the Senate on several occasion, the members of the Chinese community in Timor had direct affiliations with and the support of the families of the Taiwanese sections of China. That has been confirmed now by an official of the Captive Nations Organisation. 
Today the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the temerity to quote from this document. The United Nations,  Mr Peacock  himself and those members of this Parliament who were at the United Nations when this matter was being discussed last year know that the whole of the civilised world regards that document as a fraudulent and exaggerated document. Of course, the other document which was referred to by the Minister in his reply- he said that it was a document entitled 'The Process of Decolonisation in East Timor'- is a document which the Minister himself said is a publication issued by the Indonesian Department of Information. So the documents to which the Minister referred in his reply as having been given to him by the Department of Foreign Affairs are, as I have indicated, documents that were supplied by the Indonesian authorities. 
I am not able to make any comment about the second document because it is clearly not a document that is available to members of this Parliament and I am not able to comment in any way upon its veracity or otherwise. Suffice it to say that we recall that  Senator Withers,  when replying to a question from me in this House last year when the Melbourne  Herald  carried an article in which  Mr Malik,  the Indonesian Foreign Affairs Minister, claimed in an interview with a Melbourne  Herald  correspondent that the Australian Government had given certain assurances in respect of East Timor, claimed that  Mr Peacock  had denied that any such assurance had been given. I think there is sufficient evidence to show that the views of Indonesia cannot be accepted with any credence. The Government of Indonesia must stand condemned on the basis of the mounting evidence available to us in this country and in the United Nations organisation. 
A copy of that second confidential report has been made available to  Mr Peacock  and it is one of the most damning documents that one could ever see. That document would turn the stomach of any civilised person. It contains accounts of what happened in Timor. Those accounts were given by people now in Portugal who were supporters of Apodeti and the UDT movement- the Timorese Democratic Union- the 2 movements opposed to the Fretilin movement. I suggest that all honourable senators, on both the Government side and the Opposition side, read that document. It is in the hands of the Government. It was written by a person who represented this country in Dili. At his own expense and in a somewhat courageous way he sought to indicate the real position in that country. When I raised these matters in this House on previous occasions I was chided and even derided by Government supporters because I wanted the Government to investigate some of them. 
I accept that there are Government supporters who share my view about East Timor, just as I share the view of  Senator Bonner  about the tragic events in Uganda. But the fact is that Australia has done nothing about the atrocities that have taken lace in East Timor. Even a respectable journal ke the Melbourne  Herald  referred to this in its editorial today which was headed 'Uganda murder'. It stated: 
Australia finds it politically easier to be strongly critical of deaths in Uganda, 12 000 kilometres away, than it does to question alleged atrocities in East Timor 600 kilometres off our coast . . . Thus the Australian Foreign Minister,  Mr Peacock,  has remained silent so far on the latest allegations of atrocities by Indonesian troops in East Timor, while speaking out with justifiable concern over the latest murderous antics of the bizarre Ugandan dictator, Idi Amin. 
Even our newspapers which normally do not take a critical position on this Government's policies in foreign affairs- newspapers which normally take a fairly benevolent attitude to them- have seen fit to draw comparisons. I share the comparisons of the action this Government has taken at a government level about Uganda and the silence that has existed about East Timor. If I look at these matters properly and compassionately I view the loss of the lives of 3 villagers in East Timor with the same concern as I have about the 3 people who were murdered in Uganda. I do not think we can say that the lives of the 2 Cabinet Ministers and a Bishop which were lost in Uganda were of any more importance than those of 3 ordinary villagers in East Timor or 3 young girls living in the town of Dili. 
Or the lives of the half dozen Australians who were killed. The latest report by  Mr Dunn  clearly establishes further evidence which confirms what Jose Martins said when he was brought here by the Australian Journalists Association in the middle of last year. Abundant evidence is available. I do not think we can put ourselves in the position of according a greater degree of importance in the scheme of things to the lives of a group of people in one country as against another. I think we all ought to deplore the turn of events throughout the world where terrorism, murder and assassination are becoming the order of the day; where political dissidents are being persecuted, tortured and murdered because they hold different point of view. Such people have been gaoled because they disagree with policies pursued by particular countries or particular parties which might be ruling in those countries. 
When I last spoke on this matter, on 17 November 1976, I said that we were receiving private documents and eye witness accounts of the situation in East Timor. I said that they came from courageous people whose liberty, as well as that of their friends, could be jeopardised if we were to reveal to the Senate and the Australian people the source of that information. I would be somewhat concerned about making that sort of information available to the Department of Foreign Affairs unless I had an assurance that in no way would it be conveyed to the Indonesian authorities. I agree with the comment by the Melbourne  Herald  that there is a need for us to concern ourselves about loss of life, brutality and atrocities wherever they take place in the world, but particularly in countries closest to us. 
I urge members of the Government parties who have a genuine concern about East Timor to read the confidential report which is available to their Government. I hope in the weeks to come after the next break in the parliamentary sittings that the Senate will be prepared to do something about the turn of events that now have been more clearly revealed than they were when weboth Government supporters and members of the Opposition- first raised these matters in the Senate a year or two ago. I hope that the Government, particularly its spokesmen in this place, will re-examine the answer given to that question and re-examine the motivation of the questioner who sought to suggest that the Fretilin sources were using people in the villages to protect the lives of the Fretilin soldiers. The situation is that a country of the size of Indonesia, with 130 million people, has occupied a country of 600 000 people and in doing so has used modern weapons and sophisticated means of warfare. It is ridiculous to suggest that about 16 months afterwards Fretilin could survive only by adopting that sort of behaviour. On the contrary, anybody who is aware of movements that have grown up in the world in recent times involving people who have struggled for liberty and the right to determine their own affairs, must realise that such movements cannot be sustained unless they enjoy the overwhelming support of the indigenous people. That is the position in East Timor. I suggest the Government ought to reexamine that question and put the record straight in respect of the tragic events that have taken place and are continuing to take place in East T imor. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the Government's policy on political refugees and political asylum and ask whether a universal policy or a policy variant is applied to these matters, depending upon our relations with the country of origin of the applicant. I refer specifically to the application of Hisham Rais, a Malaysian student whose activities and political views offend the Malaysian Government. Will his application receive the same sort of consideration as is given to applications by students from Vietnam and Cambodia who seek political asylum in Australia because of their attitude to their countries' present governments? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  in which he called on cattle producers to withhold stock from the market, constitute Government policy? Would not such a proposal seriously raise domestic meat prices and affect the fight against inflation? Would not the threat to withhold supplies constitute a strike by capital? Does this mean that the Government now supports strike action by labour and capital to get higher prices for their commodities? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would- 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
Require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
Petition received and read. 
Parklands in the A.C.T. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Did the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs recommend to the Prime Minister a year ago the amalgamation of certain areas of the Industries Assistance Commission with the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs? Has the Prime Minister been informed that the Prime Minister's decision of November last approving this change will strip the Industries Assistance Commission of a great deal of its autonomy and value to both rural and manufacturing industry? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the purpose of this drastic change? Will the amalgamation destroy or harm the independence of the Industries Assistance Commission? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government received a submission from the Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers, whose plan asks the Government to legislate to compulsorily and selectively acquire 46 per cent of the wool clip? Is this plan diametrically opposed to the scheme put forward by the Australian Wool Corporation? Does the Minister acknowledge grower resistance to the wool brokers ' plan? 
My question probably falls within the area of responsibility of  Senator Durack  as the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the Attorney-General. Has the Minister seen the statement attributed to the National Country Party member,  Mr R.  Katter, Junior, calling on cattlemen to strike, to picket and to tear up railway lines in an effort to force higher beef prices? Can the Minister say whether these views have the support of the Government and whether the Minister condones direct action by citizens to alleviate their grievances? If the answer to these questions is in the negative, can the Minister say whether any legislative action is proposed by the Government to assist in stabilising incomes of meat producers. 
I should like to join with my colleagues in expressing my commendation of the  speaker  on the Government side who made his maiden speech in this debate. I express the hope that he will continue to contribute towards some understanding of the problems encompassed in the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty on the opening of the Second Session of the Thirtieth Parliament. I think that  Senator Baume  would find a measure of agreement on this side of the House to the sensible way in which he indicated the work load of members of Parliament and the lack of resources generally available to them. I remind the honourable senator that there was a 100 per cent increase in the resources made available to members of Parliament during the period of the Whitlam Government from 1 972 to 1975. In fact,  Senator McAuIiffe  and I were negotiating with  Mr Daly  during the very week of the dismissal of the Whitlam Government to improve the resources and the facilities available to members of Parliament. I hope therefore that there will be some joint activity by members of the Parliament to make sufficient facilities and resources available so that members can more adequately carry out their parliamentary duties. 
I believe that we are at a stage in our society where it is essential for us to comprehend and understand the forces that operate within our society, to propagate whatever ideas we may have in the community generally, and to engage in much more public debate about the crucial  issues  which face western civilisation today. It is in that spirit that I wish to make some comments about the Speech of Her Majesty just a week and one day ago. When one contrasts that Speech with the Speech delivered by her on the previous occasion, one can say only how disappointing this Speech was. What a dismal Speech it was, what a disreputable document representing the views of the Government of the day. Of course, I make no disrespectful comments about the Queen herself because she was delivering a Speech given to her and prepared for her by the Government. But let us compare that document with the document of hope and expectation prepared on the previous occasion. It set out a program, it set out some reasons why people in Australia should believe that there was a future for this country, a future under a Labor government. 
I sat and watched  Her  Majesty a week ago and she seemed to me to falter, to be somewhat fearful of the document. Of course, it was a very sparse document. It dealt inadequately with the great problems which face us in this country and which face most of the countries of the western world. The document took 8 minutes to read and was 4 pages long, and I think it can probably be described as a narcissistic document, a document of self praise and self adulation. It was concerned with defending this Government's political position. While I share the concern for the welfare of members of Parliament expressed a short while ago by  Senator Baume  in a very adequate speech, I think we should be concerning ourselves with the welfare of our fellow Australians, and this document fails to do that. 
Over the last few years political interest in this country has heightened and a lot more interest has been shown in political life. Let me go back and deal with the very brief period in 1975 when we were being regaled with the problems of the deficit and of overseas borrowings, the problems of inflation and unemployment. They were the dominant issues upon which  Her  Majesty's representative in this country dismissed a lawfully and properly elected Government. What is the present situation in relation to overseas borrowings? In the 15 months this Government has been in office it has borrowed more money on the overseas loan market than did the Labor Government. 
Let us look at the deficit in the period under consideration, that is, from 1974 to 1977. This was the issue upon which the previous Government was destroyed. I shall refer then to the issue of Her Majesty and to the emergence of ideas of republicanism that are developing in this country. The deficit in the first Labor Budget in 1974 was only $292m. It is true that in the following year- 1975- it went up to $2,566m. The following year it went up to $3,585m. But what is it today? What is the amount shown in the document that was delivered to our boxes within the past 24 hours? The deficit is now $5,532m. In February 1977 it was $ 1,000m more than it was in February 1976. Yet Her Majesty's representative in this country used the deficit as one of the reasons to dismiss an elected Labor Government from office. Of course, unemployment figures have risen considerably in the same comparable period. 
I believe the Speech of  Her  Majesty is a sham. It does not attempt to deal with the issues that are facing either the Parliament or the Australian people. Because of its very lack of content, because it does not meet the requirements of adequate public debate or of adequate parliamentary debate, it will exacerbate the movement towards republicanism in this country. In the graffiti in Taylor Square in Sydney there is a slogan which this Government ought to take into consideration. It says: 'Long live Elizabeth the last'. The events of 1975 brought a republican movement into being- it gave it life and strength. Of course, documents like this Speech fail to grapple with the very serious problems that exist in the Australian economy and will further strengthen that movement. It is a shame that  Her  Majesty was brought in to the Parliament to deliver such a disreputable document. 
It was a slogan; I was not necessarily associating myself with it,  Mr President.  The Speech sets out the Government 's attitude towards the economy and what the Government stands for. The Speech goes on to say- I think in a hypocritical way- that this Government is committed to a policy of full employment. In the period under review, that is, in the life of this Government, unemployment has reached very dangerous proportions. No initiatives undertaken by this Government will rectify those grave deficiencies within the Australian economy. For example, 65 per cent of the work force is now involved in tertiary industries; the rural work force has dropped to between 6 per cent and 7 per cent of the total work force; and the percentage of the work force in manufacturing industry has declined from 25 per cent to 23 per cent. Yet if we examine that sector which has grown most remarkably in the postwar years a period in which we have had conservative Federal governments- that is, the tertiary sector- we see that growth has taken place largely in the distributive, commercial and public sector. When we examine the number of persons employed in public sector activity and the deliberate policy of this Government to cut back on growth and expenditure in the public sector we can see how false is the Government's statement in this Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty that the Government is concerned to maintain a policy of full employment. The Speech goes on to say: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie . . . concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 

 Mr Malcolm Fraser is on public record as having said that life was not meant to be easy. Millions of people in Australia today are beginning to appreciate that that is their fate- that life is not easy any more, life is difficult. An increasing number of people find themselves unable to live on the meagre resources that are available to them. This fact has to be recognised by the Government. Something like half of the work force earns less than $150 a week; two-thirds of the work force earns less than the average weekly earnings of $180 odd; and on average rural incomes have fallen to less than $ 1 60 a week. 
An examination of what has happened on the incomes front in the period 1953-54 to 1975-76 shows that rural incomes rose by only 62 per cent, whereas urban incomes rose by something like 400 per cent. That is a tribute to the capacity of the trade union movement to hold the living standards of its members. Yet this Government is hell-bent on attacking the trade unions and on attacking the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In the Government's submission before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case it is seeking to bring about a decrease in real living standards. It is doing that in the face of its philosophy that the only way to get this economy going again is for people to spend more- to increase consumer spending. Yet that objective cannot be realised to the extent that real wages are reduced. Already this Government is applying pressure to all the pressure points that make the wage earners shoulder the main burden of the economic decline. If real wages are not adjusted for increases in prices the real value of wages declines and there can be no consumer spending revival. 
In 1 976 real wages dropped by 2 per cent as a result of the decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In a recent submission by this Government to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- the submission was not debated in this Parliament but was prepared behind closed doors and submitted by the Government's legal representative- the Government had the audacity and the temerity to suggest that only $2.90 should be added to the national wage in the present national wage case. It made this recommendation despite the fact that inflation has been maintained at the same level in 1976 as applied in 1975. In other words, it was at a rate in excess of 14 per cent. If the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission accepts the submission of the Government the net result will be a further decrease in real living standards of the Australian work force by another 4 per cent. This means that within a year real wages will have been depressed by 6 per cent.  Her  Majesty's Speech goes on to say.   my Government has given first priority to restoring the economy and will use all the resources at its disposal to achieve this goal. 
It is not using all the resources at its disposal; rather, it seems to be hell-bent on disposing of its resources. For example, is it not a fact that this Government is seeking to sell the MoombaSydney gas pipe line to the Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney? This pipe line is a great national enterprise that will benefit millions of Australians over the years to come. It provides a basis for a possible extended network in the future to assist regional centres, such as BathurstOrange and other such growth centres. This great concept, just because it was a concept of a Labor Government apparently is to be sacrificed to the dogma of private enterprise. I have referred already to the Budget deficit figures. One can also see how insincere this Government is when it endeavours to place its philosophy at the altar of private enterprise. 
This Fraser Government has said there is no scope whatsoever for immediate tax cuts, but in the last Budget the coal export levy was cut by $2 a tonne and the Government announced its intention in that Budget to phase out the levy altogether. This act and the devaluation in November 1976- hiding behind the smoke screen of encouraging overseas investment in this country, which this Government believes is needed- has merely given a large windfall to overseas investors in ownership of our resources, with little or no benefit accruing to the Australian community. Yet the very company that profited to the tune of some $30m felt that it could salve its conscience by giving $100,000 to the Australian Opera House- a grateful acknowledgement no doubt for the $30m it received as a result of the decrease in that levy. Everyone knows and accepts, although it was vehemently denied when Labor was in office, that the impediment to foreign investment and the development of our raw iron ore and coal projects was the state of the world economy at largethe worst recession since the 1930s. The entire strategy of the Fraser Government has been directed not at trying to overcome the problems of unemployment in our country but at trying to turn the clock back and trying to improve the lot of a very small number of powerful overseas companies to make it easier for them to exploit and develop our natural resources. 
Two weeks ago, John Byrne pointed out in article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 2 March that Alcoa, the Aluminium Company of America, managed to acquire 35 years ' supply of Australian bauxite for less than $6m. It was a gift to one of the largest American companies. This is the sort of deal that one expects from a LiberalNational Country Party Government. A further interesting fact on this matter of overseas investmentI refer to this fact because this Government said that the only way we can get our economy moving is to increase the rate of profits so that companies will expend their capital in developing Australian industry- emerges in an examination by Syntex on 7 February 1977 of foreign investment in Australia. It is a very reputable company. I do not think anyone would disagree with my quoting of its summation. It showed that foreign investment in the late 1 960s went most notably into the most dynamic, profitable and capital intensive areas of the Australian economy and that, as a result, in 1975-76, 55 per cent of company income is payable overseas. Syntex interpreted this information as follows: 
Thus the most dramatic message of these tables looked at together is this: the fate of a large part of private enterprise productive investment in Australia now rests in board-rooms in New York, Tokyo, London and elsewhere. Thus too, the question of whether the Australian economy resumes growth or shrinks into a smaller entity, with less opportunity for employment and living standard growth, rests in these overseas board-rooms. 
Yet this Government, in the Queen's Speech delivered in this Parliament, said: 
My Government is providing incentives and encouragement to the private sector, and is reducing its own  relative  demands on national resources so that private industry may  have room to grow, provide employment and increase the well-being of all Australians. 
The Government has painted itself into a corner. What did the Jackson Committee have to say about Australian industry? In its report on manufacturing industry it said: 
The Australian manufacturing industry is in an acute financial crisis. Unemployment is high. Factories are running below capacity. Many firms have borrowed to the hilt  . . Manufacturing's problems are manifestations of the world economic crisis in which all countries, including Australia, are enmeshed. But in Australian manufacturing there is a deep-seated and long-standing malaise. That malaise has sharpened the impact on the industry of the current economic crisis. When it passes, the malaise of manufacturing will still be there. 
Two years after the Jackson report when there has not been a revival in the world economy the problems in Australian industry are still acute. This Government in its own documents on the economy, debated in the Parliament a short time ago, pointed to the fact that profits had risen in Australia from $12.2 billion to $14.2 billion in the space of the previous year. There was a 14 per cent increase. However, according to the Syntex analysis 55 per cent of those profits are going to overseas companies and will not be applied to the structural problems facing manufacturing industry in this country. 
There are a number of reasons for the basic sickness of Australian manufacturing. It is sick because of the nature of the industry itself and because of the changes taking place in the world around it. One thing is certain. It is not sick because of the activities of the unions or the wages of the workers because if they do not earn the wages they cannot buy the goods they produce. Despite all the rhetoric of the present Government that happens to be one of the facts of economic life. Companies have been reducing their investment in manufacturing industry for almost 10 years. In a report to the standing committee of which you,  Mr President,  and I were members, the Australian Industry Development Association indicated that there had been a fall in capital investment in the private sector for 10 years. It has not picked up and there is no possibility that it will pick up. Existing companies are not renewing their machinery or expanding and new firms are not entering the sector. The only exceptions are one or two companies which are bringing in capital extensive machines and reducing the number of workers in the particular area of manufacturing. 
The sickness also stems from the fact that a large number of Australian industries are controlled by monopolies. The Jackson Committee pointed out that 30 000 medium and small firms carry out 50 per cent of all manufacturing, while a mere 200 large firms have captured the other 50 per cent. More significantly, 87 large foreign firms have taken over one quarter of all Australian manufacturing output. This concentration of ownership and control is higher in Australia than in almost any other industrialised part of the world. The profits made in Australia by foreign companies are taken out of Australia. The companies put back very little in the way of new investments that would improve manufacturing industry. My authority for that statement came from a very important conference held in Perth last year which was attended by an industry leader,  Mr Johnson,  the Managing Director of the Australian National Line, Austral Steel and Steel Mark Ltd. I am sure that he does not belong to the 'infamous Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or any other such organisation '. I am sure that he has little in common with them. When he spoke about the problems facing the economy in this country he said: 
An analysis of new manufacturing ventures supplying Australia snowed that growth was occurring not in Australia but in Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and other countries where there existed low wages or high productivity. Job prospects for young people will be reduced to those of the 1930s, fishing, farming, mining or the dole- if the trend continues. 
Yet there is not one word in the Queen's Speech which indicates that this Government is grappling with the structural problems that beset manufacturing industry. 
There is no legislation of any consequence before the Parliament. We know that the Parliament has been turned into a useless adjunct of the Executive Government. The only piece of legislation which is likely to have any particular significance in the next week or two will be the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill. That legislation occupied the attention of my Party room for about an hour this morning. I understand that it occupied a similar time in the Government Party room. The same sort of structural difficulties and deficiencies are affecting the rural sector. It is being affected by world market changes, denial of access to markets and the tremendous growth of output by the United States of America. In the totality of this problem the Industries Assistance Commission has made a number of reports to the previous Government and to this Government which mean cutting back considerably on the number of farmers engaged in agriculture. 'Get big or get out' is the philosophy of this Government. 'Get rid of the small farmer.' That is what is implied in the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. It takes the view that there is very little future left in the efficiency of our rural industries. Therefore, in these circumstances we believe that the Queen's Speech falls short of making a contribution towards a meaningful public debate about the state ofthe economy. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-I move: 
That- 
1 ) A Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon the following matters: 
the form of Australian aid to the residents of East Timor; 
b) the plight of refugees from East Timor; 
the fate of six (6) Australian journalists in East Timor; 
d ) communications between Australia and East Timor; 
the position in Timor, including the conflict between Timorese forces and Indonesian forces and the position of the Timorese civilian population, the origins of the conflict and its impact on the Timorese people; and 
other matters related to the foregoing. 
The Committee consist of seven Senators, four to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
The Committee may proceed to the despatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
The quorum of the Committee be three. 
The  Chairman  of the Committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be the Deputy-Chairman, and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
The Committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the Committee is empowered to consider, and that the quorum of a sub-committee be two. 
The Committee or any sub-committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, to sit in public or in private, notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament, and have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such interim recommendations as it may deem fit. 
8 ) Members of the public and representatives of the news media may attend and report any public session of the Committee unless the Committee otherwise orders. 
The Committee be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily  Hansard  shall be published of such proceedings of the Committee as take place in public. 
The Committee be provided with all necessary staff, facilities and resources and be empowered to appoint persons with specialist knowledge for the purposes of the Committee, with the approval of the  President. 
The foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
My Party is moving for the establishment of a Select Committee on East Timor because we believe that the Timor issue requires the consideration of the Senate. I think it has to be agreed that the select committees which the Senate has established over many years have done a great deal to examine and to concern themselves with issues that have required detailed investigation. Such select committees have dealt with securities and exchange, drug trafficking and drug abuse, containerisation and the metric system of weights and measures. There was also the Vincent Committee whose purpose was to encourage the Australian production of television. These select committees which the Senate, in its wisdom, has established have contributed a great deal towards the working and the value of the Parliament. It is in the light of that experience that we believe a Select Committee on East Timor should be established. We believe that this committee should be established because of the tragedy that continues in East Timor which is some 400 miles from our shore. We believe that the problem there has resurrected itself and requires the consideration of the Senate. 
It is clear that the Timor issue will not die, it will not fade away. As the months have elapsed it has been proven time and again that it will remain an issue in the minds of the Australian people. Unfortunately over the last 1 8 months or so some Australians have attempted to cover up the stark realities of the brutal aggression against a people whose sense of determination has prevailed and continues to prevail against 30 000 Indonesian troops. We can feel only a sense of horror and admiration for the Timorese people; horror because of the murder, destruction and pillage visited upon the unfortunate civilians of East Timor. We can also admire the courage and tenacity of the East Timorese people in their struggle for that basic of all human rights- the right of self-determination. This issue received the endorsement of this Parliament when we endorsed the principles of the United Nations charter. 
Tonight we in the Senate have an opportunity in a small yet tangible way to assist the embattled East Timorese people, to repay the debt that we owe the people in Timor for assisting the Second AIF during World War II which tied down for several years a division of Japanese troops. We also have the opportunity to recover some of the principle and morality which has been so lacking in some Government decisions relating to East Timor. Tonight we have the chance to move a little closer to a truly humanitarian and sensitive policy in East Timor. Tonight we must put right some of the wrong for which all of us share the blame. I say 'all of us' because we share some of the guilt. We all share some blame for those most tragic circumstances in East Timor. By this I mean that both governments which have had responsibility for determining foreign policy have failed on several occasions. It is not our intention to try to apportion blame to this Government or to the previous Government or to this Minister for Foreign Affairs or to the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, but rather to examine the tragic circumstances because the governments have failed the East Timorese. They have failed the sense of fair play of the Australian people. They have failed to respond to the duties and the responsibilities incumbent upon a government so close to this event in the international community. Both governments have failed to show to the Indonesian people that we, the Australians, care a great deal about human rights, particularly human rights in our region. The question with which the Senate must concern itself is whether it will rise above party politics? Will it rise above prejudice and partisanship and set in motion the machinery for an important and proper review of the tragedy of East Timor? 
More than anything else, successive policy decisions on East Timor have failed to meet the demands of morality and principle which should, I believe, be inherent in any Australian foreign policy. In this regard, I believe that we have lost our self respect. The demise of Australian foreign policy is not confined to the present Government. I remember several Labor senators and members in 1975 fighting desperately to alter the direction of the Labor Government's attitude to East Timor. During the formative days of a growing self awareness of independence in East Timor, I remember clearly the struggles that we waged to get some recognition of the right of the people to determine their own affair. I remember clearly visiting that small yet vital and beautiful country on 2 occasions. I came back convinced of the need for the Australian government to support a policy of self determination there. My belief was based upon the overwhelming support given to the Fretilin Party by the East Timorese. I am sure that one of my companions on the latter journey,  Senator Bonner,  felt a similar overwhelming sense of desire for self determination amongst the East Timorese throughout the territory. 
In the intervening 2 years, however, a series of Australian Government decisions has disappointed all of us from all parties who were concerned with this basic fundamental human right. The list of policy decisions which I and many other senators on both sides of this chamber have felt extremely disturbed by is long. Australia should have made it perfectly clear in a public way that we would strenuously oppose any Indonesian intervention in East Timor. We, I believe, failed to do this. In 1976, the Australian Government complied with Indonesian attempts to stifle information coming from East Timor. In January 1976, the radio link between Australia and East Timor at Darwin was closed. Late last year the receipt and transferral of messages from East Timor by Telecom were terminated. These decisions were designed to strangle the East Timorese resistance movement. 
These actions were made even more cruel and inhumane when one remembers that Indonesia has a  cordon sanitaire  around the island and has allowed only selected foreign journalists and observers in for a very brief and supervised period. The Indonesians have even banned the International Red Cross from proceeding with its humanitarian assistance in East Timor. Yet the decision to close the radio link is even more callous when one notes that 6 Australian journalists who were pursuing their fine ideals to provide the international community with information on the developing war were murdered. That was some months before the intervention by Indonesia which occurred in December 1975. What irony! On the available evidence 6 Australian journalists were murdered purely and simply because they were Australians. They also were presenting the facts. In doing this, they were a threat to the secretive Indonesian military intervention in East Timor. Do we insult their memory by closing off East Timor even further? This amounts to a policy of appeasement. We all know the tragedy of the appeasement policies of the 1930s in Europe. Shamefully, there can be no escape from the conclusion that appeasement does not pay. 

 Mr President, the Indonesian Government has much to hide. Unfortunately some of its brutal activities in occupied East Timor are now surfacing. But before I look at recent events there, I wish to elucidate what I regard as the connivance and trickery engaged in by Indonesia in its dealings with successive Australian governments in recent years. For example, on 17 April 1976 the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  said that he hoped that the International Red Cross would be allowed back into Timor within 2 weeks.  Mr Peacock  said that he had assurances that this was possible. Apparently these assurances given by Indonesia were meaningless. We still have no International Red Cross presence in East Timor, 1 1 months later. Yet it has consistantly been the lying of the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  which leads me to the conclusion that he is utterly unprincipled and untrustworthy. These are harsh words. They are strong words. But if one compiles the list of actions by this man,  Mr Malik,  in relation to East Timor, that is a conclusion which is difficult to ignore. 
It was  Mr Malik  who said in an interview with  Mr Ian  Mathews- honourable senators will recall that  Mr Mathews  was a senior journalist who operated in Canberra some years ago- which took place on 1 9 May: 
From our side, we never were afraid and we never expected the threat from Timor, even if Fretilin or other parties succeeded in getting the support of the people not to integrate with Indonesia. 
Yet, in reality,  Mr Malik  has done everything possible to threaten or deceive the Australian Government to ignore or forget the East Timorese. I refer next to a document from the Department of Foreign Affairs which is headed Inward Cablegram'. The Indonesian spokesman,  Mr Malik,  in a reply to the Committee of Twenty Four of the United Nations concerned with decolonisation said on 12 June 1975: 
My delegation hopes that the process of decolonisation in Portuguese Timor will be carried out with the broadest participation of all segments of the indigenous population on a non-discriminatory basis. All political groupings must be given full and equal opportunity to rally support for their views amongst the population, without threat or coercion, and to participate without restrictions in activities in preparation of the exercise of the right of self determination through a referendum. It is the responsibility of the administering power to prepare the population in a democratic manner for the act of self determination in order that they will be able to exercise that right with full awareness of the implications of their decision for their own future. 
Honourable senators will be aware that that commitment was not carried out by Indonesia. 
In an interview with  Mr David  Jenkins and published on 2 1 September last year,  Mr Malik  said in answer to a question whether any damage in relations between Indonesia and Australia had been repaired: 
I did not say damage but misunderstanding. We must clear that. I am sure, after  Mr Fraser's  visit, it will be clear. You will remember during the second visit of Peacock, even Peacock explained the difficulty there. 'My position in the Parliament is like this and maybe  Mr Malik,  you feel unhappy but I must wait. But in the long run we understand that this is the only way for Indonesia'. That is why, I am sure (we should ) give them time. 
That article was published in the Melbourne  Herald.  Well might  Mr Malik  smile as this article reports when once more he indulged in deception. I am inclined to believe  Mr Peacock's  statement on his discussions with  Mr Malik  in April 1976, that is, that he pressed the Indonesians to withdraw and enable a process of self determination to be commenced. 
In a letter to me from the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  this becomes perfectly clear. I accept what  Mr Peacock, Mr Fraser  and  Senator Withers  said. The letter from the Prime Minister, conveyed to me by  Senator Withers,  was in response to a question without notice.  Senator Withers  stated: 
On 21 September 1976  (Hansard,  page 782)  Senator Gietzelt  asked me about a report in the Melbourne  Herald  that the Indonesian Foreign Minister had claimed that in April this year  Mr Peacock  has assured him that the Australian Government understood that Indonesia had to annex 
East Timor. The article also reportedly stated that the Prime Minister's then impending visit to Indonesia had led the Indonesian Government to believe that the Australian Government had accepted Indonesia's position on East Timor. The Prime Minister has supplied the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not assure the Indonesian Foreign Minister in April this year that the Australian Government understood that Indonesia had to annex East Timor. 
The Australian Government's position on East Timor was expressed in the communique issued at the end of the Prime Minister's visit to Indonesia. 
In recent days exposure of Indonesian activities in East Timor has livened up the threatening characteristics of  Mr Malik.  Yesterday he threatened that demonstrations would be allowed to occur against the Australian Embassy if agitation relating to East Timor did not cease in Australia. What gross impertinence, what gross interference, what improper tactics run through these threats. We must not yield to them. We have to understand that the reasons for these threats, these outbursts and this intimidation stem from one essential source. The reports of massive atrocities in East Timor are just beginning to filter through. The activities of the Indonesian armed forces in East Timor are just beginning to reach the international community. 
Unfortunately no observation has been permitted by the Indonesian Government. Rather, the reports of atrocities have come from Indonesian Christian Aid sources and refugees who are now living in squalor in Portugal. On 17 November last I referred at length to a report by the Christian church. I now wish to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of that report, which is entitled 'Notes on East Timor'. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many farmers have availed themselves of unemployment benefits since the work test criteria for farmers was relaxed by the Government. 
My question is directed to Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of evidence given before the Prices Justification Tribunal on spare parts which confirms the complaints made by farmer organisations that farmers are being ripped off by companies selling spare parts for farm machinery? I ask the Minister: What action does the Government propose to take to prevent excessive exploitation by such companies which has raised their profits by over $2m merely by raising the price of spare parts? 
I do not wish to delay the Senate for more than one or two minutes. Honourable senators may recall that last Thursday evening on behalf of the Opposition I moved that the Senate appoint a select committee to look into the problems and the situation existing in East Timor. I intended to have incorporated in  Hansard  two of the reports which were available. The Senate agreed that I incorporate one of the reports. Unfortunately, when I was speaking about the second report, that is the report of  Mr Dunn,  I inadvertently asked to have it tabled. Leave was granted by the Senate for that to happen. I have discussed this with the  President  and he has suggested that during the adjournment debate this evening I might seek the permission of the Senate to have  Mr Dunn's  report incorporated in  Hansard.  I do this because a number of Government senators have borrowed a copy of  Mr Dunn's  report. It has some interest for members of the Senate. I now seek leave to incorporate the report in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) Senator Gietzelt,  I suggest that later you show the report to the Minister who is in charge of the Senate. Is leave granted for the  incorporation? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The report read as follows- 

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Government considering relaxing the merino ram export embargo? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Government will abide by the decisions of the wool growers, as expressed in the referendum in 1973, until such time as the wool growers of Australia are able to express a contrary viewpoint? 
I wanted to make some short comments a moment ago on the statement that you,  Mr President,  have put before the Senate. Whilst the statement does not reach conclusions it nevertheless makes a number of assumptions which I believe you are entitled to make. I think we are entitled to make some comments upon those assumptions. Either we are dealing with a private and confidential report or we are not. If it is a private and confidential report those who are associated with the preparation and distribution of it should deal with it as such, taking account of their own experiences and their own understanding of the issue involved. I think it has to be said that your statement, in which you draw conclusions based upon what  Senator Sim  said to you and his assumption that the document had in some way been removed or could have been removed from his office, establishes in my mind and I am sure in the minds of those who will publish this document that the journalists concerned may have been in some way associated with the loss of the document or the removal of it. In the circumstances I think it ought to be made clear that that is purely an assumption at this time. 
I do not know the 2 journalists concerned particularly well. I accept the fact that they are first-class senior journalists who have been associated with this place for a considerable time. They are acting under instructions of their employer in this matter. I think it ought to be put on the record that the Senate does not at this stage accept that the journalists were in any way involved in getting a copy of the private and confidential document other than through some other channel or some other agency. In reading the document in the short time it has been before us I certainly draw the conclusion that the journalists may have been involved in the possession of the document. I think it ought to be established that it is not your intention,  Mr President,  to suggest that they were involved in some breach of security in this building. I think that is a very serious charge. Let us face it, your statement,  Mr President,  will receive considerable publicity. It should not be suggested therefore that the Senate, without any investigation and without any inquiry, agrees with your estimation. It may well be, of course, that your estimation is correct. I am not in a position to know. I accept completely your integrity in the matter. 
I do not think the Senate should be put in the position where it can, on the basis of a very short report, establish that in some way or other the journalists have acted improperly in this place with the document. Many documents which I prepare are typed in the typing pool and then delivered to my office. I do not know whether  Senator Sim  avails himself of that service. In point of fact I often have had documents delivered to me in my office that belong to Government senators and I have had to call back the attendant to take them to another office. There are many ways in which a document can be misplaced or wrongly delivered. In the circumstances I think we are entitled to say that this is an interim report. It is a report which does not necessarily implicate the journalists concerned and in no way should they be regarded as being censured or criticised by the Senate. 
We are discussing cognately 3 Bills which deal with the stabilisation of the apple and pear industry. Honourable senators will recall that every year since 1971 the Senate has had a number of long winded debates about this industry. On every occasion honourable senators from Tasmania in particular have concerned themselves with the state of the industry and supported or opposed the proposals that have been put forward by the government of the day. Having considered the slanging match that has gone on from year to year, the Opposition has decided to move an amendment to the 3 Bills with which we are dealing. It is my intention to move that the Bills be withdrawn with a view to bringing forward Bills which increase the rate of stabilisation payments of $3 per box of apples and $ 1 .20 per box of pears and /or provide supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and to provide assistance directly to individual fruit growers till such times as a coherent planned policy, by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined. The Opposition believes that the Senate should give serious consideration to this amendment. We believe that the reasons for the amendment, which I shall now outline, ought to be seriously considered by the Government. We recognise that the apple and pear industry requires tangible assistance if it is to survive. We have come to this conclusion following the years of debate in this place. This applies particularly if the industry is to survive in States and regions where it is orientated for export markets. 
I do not think that any honourable senator needs to be convinced that the collapse of export markets has had a disastrous effect in a number of fruitgrowing regions throughout Australia. We therefore request the Government to reconsider in dollar terms the extent of the assistance to be given to the export orientated industry with a view to raising the level of that assistance. The amendment also asks the Government to reconsider giving additional or alternative assistance direct to growers while a policy by which the apple and pear industry will prosper is determined and implemented. The amendment does not seek to pre-empt the Government's decision making. It does not tie the Government's hands. It impliedly rejects the Government's specific assistance measures to apple and pear growers as being insufficient. It questions the criteria by which the Government considers that the assistance can best be given to the desparate fruitgrowers of Tasmania, Queensland and Western Australia and this beseiged export industry. It rejects the Government's cavalier attitude to the hardship of fruitgrowers in the Stanthorpe region in Queensland, the Goulburn Valley in Victoria, the Huon Valley in Tasmania and the south-west region of Western Australia. 
I recall that on the last occasion when similar measures were debated we tried to represent the various regions of Australia and the interests of the domestic market where States had access to their own market and where States which had lost their overseas markets were endeavouring to obtain access to such domestic markets. In previous debates in the Senate, I and other Opposition senators have indicated our preference for people-based assistance programs rather than commodity-based assistance programs. Of course, Government supporters have disagreed with that suggestion. They have questioned whether that is the best way in which assistance can be given to the industry. By moving this amendment the Opposition challenges the Government to increase the assistance on a commodity basis if it believes that this is the sole and best way to assist fruitgrowers in the fruitgrowing industry. We are saying that if the Government believes that the extension of support provided under the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Amendment Bill 1976 is the best way of assisting the industry, the least it should do is to increase the extent of that assistance to take into account inflation, extra costs and charges. If the Government refuses to consider our amendment it can be condemned for, in effect, implementing by stealth one aspect of the Industries Assistance Commission report, namely the reduction of the stabilisation scheme, and ignoring all the other recommendations. 
Several recommendations in the IAC report are relevant to the problem of the fruitgrowing industry. For example, one recommendation is the establishment of area development authorities to determine specific problems in specific areas. If any State would come within the jurisdiction of that recommendation it is certainly Tasmania. Another recommendation was the implementation of adjusted assistance measures to assist people who wish to leave the industry. When we consider that the tree-pull scheme has been phased out, it is clear that some additional attention has to be given to the industry. Of course, the Government has every right to reject the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. However, it has no right to sit back and continue insufficient interim measures which have the effect of forcing more and more fruitgrowers out of the industry without even providing any substantial form of compensation. I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is in dereliction of his duty. Government senators concerned with the plight of fruitgrowers will also be in dereliction of" their duty, both as supporters of the industry and as honourable senators in this House of review, if they permit the Government to steamroll these 3 Bills through this chamber. I believe that the Opposition will have the support of Tasmanian senators opposite, particularly  Senator Wright.  I shall quote his assertion last year. He said: 
We want the maximum support under the scheme to be $3 a case and we want it to be indexed. If defence forces retirement benefits payments for superannuants from defence forces can be indexed in full, the cost to a producer can be indexed in full for 1978 and 1979 to take account of inflation. 
When  Senator Wright  was commenting on this matter last year, he tried to persuade me that I should look at this matter in a more tolerant and sympathetic fashion. 
I read  Senator Wright's  speech. During the last parliamentary recess I did a lot of research and I visited a number of fruit growing areas in order to determine whether  Senator Wright  was correct in endeavouring to persuade me that we needed to do more than what had been done in the past. The importance of the apple and pear industry to Tasmania and to regions of Victoria, Western Australia and Queensland is well known to members of this Parliament. Every year for the last 6 years, as I said when I opened my remarks, apple and pear legislation has been brought before the Parliament and, notwithstanding that, notwithstanding the occasions when those Bills have been passed from year to year and assistance has been given, can honourable senators seriously sit here and say that the problem has been resolved? I think it has to be admitted without doubt that the problems are still with us. 

 Senator Wright is one person who has been quite vocal on this issue in this chamber. I draw his attention to what happened. One of his House of Representatives colleagues who claimed to be concerned about the state of the industry,  Mr Goodluck,  in his attempt to move an amendment in the other place, sought to suggest that when we were in Government from 1972 to 1975- the Whitlam Government- we were not concerned with this problem. I draw the attention of honourable  senators to some of  the facts. In 1 974 the Labor Government provided support under the stabilisation and special assistance schemes which amounted to a maximum of $2.80 a box for apples. It is true that in the following year the support was reduced to $1.60 a box. That was done in the belief that a lower level of support in 1975 was justified in anticipation of a higher return expected for apples in Europe. That did not take place. We know that in 1976 the Industries Assistance Commission suggested the complete phasing out of the stabilisation scheme. The fact is that there have been movements up and down but because there has not been an improvement in the industry, I think, we are completely justified in moving precisely what  Senator Wright  suggested should have been done on the last occasion. If the amendment proposed by the Opposition is carried, it will permit a fundamental re-think of the best ways of assisting the industry to survive. Apple and pear growers no longer survive the seeds of attrition which will continue to germinate if the inadequate interim measures proposed by this Government in the 3 Bills that we are considering are accepted without amendment. 
The Minister shows his continued ignorance of the needs of the industry by maintaining last year's interim measures at last year's level of support at a time when fruit growers are confronted with the challenges of this year and the increased costs of this year. I have before me a document sent to me by Brian J. Newman, the manager of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association, in which he indicates the increase in cost involved in this industry. He establishes without any shadow of doubt that if indexation were applied- and that was the cornerstone, I suggest, of  Senator Wright's  approach to this issue- there would be a justifiable increase not from $2 to $3 a box but from $2 to $3.58 a box because the increase in costs has been sufficient to take up the slack of $1.58. So the Minister, in just continuing the low level support which he has suggested, ignores the fundamental problem. Nobody will be given the sort of assistance needed to enable them to carry on in the affected regions. 
This further exposes the fact that the Minister lacks the basic nous to try something new, vital and different instead of the worn out and time eroded proposals that on their own have not materially placed the industry on the road to prosperity. As far as I am concerned, as shadow Minister, while I hold this position I am going to be concerned about the fate of people in rural areas. I am going to be concerned about the fate of those who live not only from agriculture but also in a relationship with the canning industry and the whole rural infrastructure. 
I will deal with that shortly. The proposed arrangements stand only as a crutch upon which this geriatric government supports itself while claiming to be the saviour of rural Australia. Time and time again in this House I have pointed to the fact that this Government is only continuing initiatives begun 5, 6, 7 and 8 years ago in respect of agriculture in this country. There is no fundamental rethink, no attempt to come to grips with the basic problem that is facing agriculture in so many sectors today. This Government cannot justifiably claim to be the saviour of rural Australia. That is one of the tenets upon which the National Country Party for many years has attempted to fool all of the country people all of the time. It is extremely difficult to take this Government seriously when it rejects the proposals of an independent inquiry as unacceptable but fails to implement alternate solutions to grapple with the problems that such an inquiry has revealed. 
I applaud the fact that the Government has rejected the Industries Assistance Commission's inquiry. As I have stated several times in debates on these matters, I do not think that the IAC takes into consideration the human and compassionate factors in respect of many sectors of agriculture in Australia. It is too much concerned with the economic and rationalist argument. As far as I am concerned, that is not a starting point to enable people to live according to and to enjoy their own lifestyle. The record and prospects of the industry indicate that it has suffered a period of decline and that there is very little likelihood of improvement in the near or even distant future. Notwithstanding this mountain of evidence the Government claims, by the very introduction of this legislation, that the needs of the industry can be satisfied by the continuation of the 1976 level of assistance. I am sure honourable senators from Tasmania do not accept the Government's prime contention that the needs of the industry can be maintained by continuing last year's level of assistance, because nothing can be further from the truth. The Industries Assistance Commission had this to say in its final report on the prospects of the industry: 
While it is not possible to predict accurately the long term competitive position or trends in freight and exchange rates, it does not seem likely that the adverse circumstances of the recent past will be reversed. Average returns from apple exports to Europe will continue to be subject to considerable marketing pressure and marketing disadvantages and the Commission does not see any prospect for their improvement. Although the situation facing pear exports to Europe is somewhat better than for apples they too face the same freight and exchange rate problems. There is no evidence to suggest that over the longer term returns from pear exports to Europe will increase in real terms. A somewhat similar situation exists in respect of the North American market. 
The effects of these pressures were summed up by the IAC and I found an echo of them in the Outlook Conference I attended a few weeks ago. The Outlook paper for apples and pears began with this assertion- and I am quoting from one of the papers delivered because it seems to me to be relevant to this debate: 
Australia's 1977 apple production is expected to be substantially larger than the small 1976 crop. However, the value of the crop is forecast to be only some 7 per cent greater in money terms. Further, input cost rises and the increased volume of inputs necessary to produce and market the larger crop are likely to result in reduced income for growers. 
Apple growers are going to have to look very hard and long in an endeavour to find a message of hope in the Government's offer on this occasion. They are going to be Very, very concerned about those who are projecting the future of the industry. In the opinion of the Opposition the Government is simply telling the apple and pear growers to grin and bear it. It is an admission of a complete bankruptcy of ideas, a statement that the Government does not have an answer to the desperate plight of growers. I believe there is an answer to the desperate plight of growers. This Government which has the legislative responsibility for the industry has failed to meet that challenge. A measure of the dishonesty of this Government is that deep down in its heart it knows that it offers only a sop to growers. Christ on the cross cried 'I thirst', and those who saw his plight offered him vinegar. That is the situation with this piece of legislation. It puts off for another year the fundamental look which is necessary to save the industry. 
The depths to which this Minister will stoop in order to cover up the gross inadequacies of his Government are no better illustrated than by his reference to those States which have declined to participate in the supplementary assistance measures. The Minister knows only too well that there is no export industry in the States to which he has referred in his second reading speech in the other place as having declined to participate in the scheme. Why would they wish to contribute from their limited funds when the benefits will flow to growers in other States? The Minister referred to 2 States which refused to contribute to his scheme on the basis of a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy. It is rank hypocrisy for a Minister in a Government which offers the elixir of new federalism as the panacea for Australia's economic ills to complain when States exercise their rights which that policy confers upon them. Time and time again in this place we have heard  Senator Carrick  talk about the new federalism policy and the rights of the States. Yet, when the States say that in no way should they be called upon to make a contribution to the export sector of the apple and pear industry, the Minister has the temerity to attack them, that is New South Wales and South Australia. Perhaps the Minister is suggesting that the people of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory should contribute funds to a supplementary scheme to subsidise exporters in other States. This matter is just as irrelevant to them as it is to the Government of New South Wales and South Australia. There is no export industry in those places. 
The Minister knows how ludicrous he would appear if he dared to suggest that the Territories should come into the scheme on a financial basis. The reason the Minister has mentioned the nonexport States is to attempt to make cheap political capital. It is about time that aspect was put aside. We are concerned with the fate of the industry: We are concerned with the fate of groups of people in various parts of our country. This is not an issue from which to make cheap political capital. 
I think it is important to indicate to the Senate and to the Australian public the reasons why some States have rejected the concept of providing State funds for export schemes of this nature. The New South Wales Minister, in a letter of 6 January 1977, quite rightly pointed out that the New South Wales Government would not now, or in the future, be involved in such support schemes. In point of fact, the South Australian Government pointed out that it would not be involved in the $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy scheme and that it would write off $270,000 which it had made available to some sectors of the industry. The consequence of that action is that the South Australian Government has made a greater contribution than it would have made if it had participated in the $ 1 for $ 1 scheme. It must be added,  Senator Walters,  and those other honourable senators who are trying to interject, that this attitude is consistent with the attitude expressed by the previous New South Wales Liberal and National Country Party Government in 1975 and early 1976. There- is no reason why those States should be called upon to make any contribution to the rationalisation plans to put the industry on a permanently viable basis. 
What has the Fraser Government done? It has not converted loans for canneries to grants. It has merely deferred payment. It has done nothing for the apple and pear growers. It refuses to become involved with industry rationalisation and stable marketing for the whole fruit canning industry. I ask: Where is the survey to show the defects which are in the marketing of our apples and pears in Australia? Where is the inquiry being held to show the great loss that is taking place in this industry? Something like less than 40c in every consumer dollar goes to the grower. The rest of the amount is spent in the distribution and retailing of the product. The Tasmanian Government is aware of the existing stabilisation proposals and has accepted them. But it has gone a step further. It has offered a supplementary assistance scheme on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. This scheme was put forward and accepted by Tasmania last year. The Tasmanian Government is currently legislating for an interim export marketing authority in its own right, as distinct from the responsibilities of the Australian Government, to give much needed assistance to fruit growers in that State. It is hoped that the Minister will not refuse the State's application for a licence. To do so would be a dereliction of duty. 
Having taken up the applications from some fruit growers in Western Australia with the Department and the Minister I know how difficult it is to get a licence to export apples and pears. It was only with the greatest amount of pressure that finally we were able to get the Apple and Pear Corporation to accede to the request from the fruit growers in Western Australia to get access to international markets. From the evidence I have presented I believe it is clear that it is  Mr Sinclair  and the Fraser Government which lack sensitivity in relation to the economic plight of fruit growers, not the States. There is a sensitivity in the Opposition about this problem. We trust that there will be a sensitivity from the Government. The Federal Government has constitutional responsibility over marketing and exports. It should use its powers in the national interest to provide a plan for the recovery of the fruit growing industry. To make cheap political capital out of the plight of a section of the Australian community- the apple and pear growers -is to treat it with contempt. We in Opposition say that we are prepared to consider an increase in the commodity based propositions but we do not believe that is sufficient. That is why we have suggested that the apple and pear growers throughout Australia, associated with the export industry, should be given direct assistance to maintain the growers in a viable industry on the farm. 
The Opposition was once amazed at the manner in which primary producers were prepared to accept what this Government doled out to them in the name of assistance. But this is no longer the case. It is evident that there has been widespread dissatisfaction throughout rural Australia. Primary producers are beginning to realise that their hopes were dashed in December when they returned a coalition Government. In all its policy programs the Government suggested it wanted to make agriculture viable, buoyant, and prosperous. Yet what Government senator can seriously suggest that there has been any tangible improvement in agriculture in the last 1 5 or 16 months? This coalition is bankrupt of ideas and possessed only of a policy which is continuing to send apple and pear growers, and other primary producers, to the wall. It is this sector of agriculture which is hardest hit in Australia today. It is true that the dairying industry is in a very similar position. Dairying and fruit growing are 2 grave problem areas in agriculture today. 
What of this Government's hopes for the future of the industry? The Minister again exhibits his complete and utter lack of ideas. He paints a very dark picture but offers no hope to producers. He offers only the maintenance of an existing scheme. The Minister states quite emphatically that the assistance cannot continue indefinitely. That is what he states in his second reading speech. What then are his plans for the future? They are not to be found in his second reading speech. Is there some other plan? Surely we are entitled to know what that plan is because it cannot be found in the policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties. The best the Minister can offer is a vague hope that things will improve. In 1975 we were condemned when we suggested that conditions would improve because we reduced the subsidy from $2.80 to $1.60. That was the basis upon which we made our economic judgment. We were proved to be wrong. For the sake of apple and pear growers the Opposition hopes that the Government will grasp the nettle and accept the amendment. If it does not do so growers will be in an even more pathetic state. 
But what of next season? The Minister is expecting a phasing down of assistance measures. He is hoping that the economic circumstances of the industry will make this possible. He fails to describe the basis upon which this theory is based. I have referred to the estimates of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and of the Industries Assistance Commission. Those estimates must surely cause some concern to the industry. The facts of the case are such that the now infamous Blind Freddie and his dog can see that there will be no economic recovery for this industry in the foreseeable future. Without Government direction and participation we cannot hope to see any tangible benefits to the apple and pear growers. At a time when the industry and fruit growers require direction and assistance to improve marketing methods and quality control for apples and pears sold domestically and overseas, this Government continues the interim measures at last year's level of assistance. 

 Mr English, the general manager of the Committee of Direction of Fruit Marketing, at the Outlook Conference emphasised the need to establish a sole export marketing authority to prevent the ludicrous situation of Australia virtually competing against itself with a multiplicity of brands and a great variety in packs. There is no suggestion in this legislation that the Government is grappling with that idea, and who is better able to give that sort of advice to the Government than that gentleman? What better organisation could there be from which to get advice? There is nothing to suggest that its proposals have received even the consideration of the Government.  Mr English  pessimistically has the feeling that it might be too late to move in this direction because of the extent to which our export market has dwindled. 
If the Government refuses to accept the Opposition 's amendment it is putting the last nail in the coffin of this industry because the income of apple and pear growers is at the bottom of the list and some of them are earning considerably less than the lowest paid manual worker. It is an industry which has over 3000 growers and employs a substantial amount of labour. We are concerned not only with agriculture but also with the canning industry, with those who profit from the activities of a particular fruit growing region and with the whole infrastructure that must be, will be and is affected by the failure to effect a substantial improvement in the living standards of those people who operate in this industry. 
On the last occasion that this matter was debated, as is customary for the Government parties, the endeavour was to sheet the blame in some other direction, usually in the direction of those associated with the working section of the industry or those associated with the distribution of the industry's products. I am sorry that  Senator Wright  has left the chamber but I refer him to reports which have appeared in recent times in the financial columns of our newspapers. He has made a great endeavour to suggest that if freight costs could be reduced, if wharf labourers and others associated with the industry could be persuaded to accept lower wages there would be some chance for the industry to revive. I refer him to the statement of the Prices Justification Tribunal about James Patrick and Co. Pty Ltd which was ordered as a result of the discussions before that tribunal to reduce its charges. I also draw his attention to what the Prices Justification Tribunal had to say to Seatainer Terminals Ltd which was ordered to cut its charges by 10 per cent and what it had to say about the rip-off by  Sir Reginald  Reed who received in 1976 in excess of $700,000 in directors fees and more than $l.lm in commission between 1972 and 1975. 
If there are to be any savings in the cost of distribution of those products we should not expect those who have to perform the duties to carry the burden. It should be borne by those in management who are using their privileged, position to get the maximum return for their management skills. I suggest that there are a lot of rip-offs taking place in the whole distribution process of our agricultural products and that the Government ought to be examining how best it will overcome the disparity between what the consumer pays whether on the domestic or overseas market and the very poor return to growers. So I formally move: 
Leave out all words after "That", insert the Bill be withdrawn with a view to bringing forward a Bill which 
Increases the rate of stabilisation payments to $3 per box of apples and $ 1 .20 per box of pears and /or 
Provides supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and provides assistance directly to individual fruit growers till such times as a coherent planned policy, by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined. 
If there is any understanding of the attitude which the Opposition is taking on this legislation we can expect from at least  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators from Tasmania who have spoken from time to time on this subjectand we should bear in mind those honourable senators who were axed following the stand they took on 1 1 November 1975 when these matters were debated- a more sympathetic approach to the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Melzer)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of reports that the rice mills in the Riverina area have been placed under quarantine? If the reports are correct, will the Minister indicate what insect has infected the rice crops? Will the wheat crop in the region be similarly threatened? Finally, will the Minister indicate when the Government intends to proceed with the much needed national quarantine station which could put Australian crops and livestock beyond risk? 
The Opposition agrees to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wright,  not because we believe it goes far enough in determining the vexatious problem of the apple and pear industry but because, from my own experience in the 6 years I have been a member of the Senate, I think if one piece of legislation stands aside from all other pieces of legislation, it is the annual debate that takes place about the apple and pear industry. In the thousands of words which have been uttered in this place I think we have narrowed to a great degree the differences that might otherwise have existed about the steps that ought to be taken to alleviate the very serious problem that faces the industry. Over the last year or two that the Senate has debated the apple and pear industry we have reached a point where the Government has to be clearly shown that the Senate does not accept the  ad hoc  and piecemeal type of legislation which has been put before it. It is true that when we discussed this matter last year various points of view were expressed which indicated that the Labor Party was prepared to look at this matter in a nonpolitical way. 
The original legislation was put before the Senate for its consideration in 1970. When we review the passage of time since then we have to come to the  conclusion  that the industry has not made any significant progress and, in point of fact, in 1 977 when we are considering this piece of legislation, the industry has continued to decline. 
The industry has not made progress. It is in a grave state. If there is to be any meaning in parliamentary debate I suggest that the amendment that has been put forward by  Senator Wright  be supported by the Senate. I think it is a matter of regret that the Senate did not give serious consideration to the amendment which I moved a week ago. That amendment took into account 2 points of view. If we could have a little order from the drunken honourable senators on the other side - 
One of the difficulties in trying to debate a matter of some consequence in the Senate after 8 o'clock in the evening is having the sort of audible conversation which does not take into account an endeavour - 
Without any hesitation I withdraw my remarks, but I am sick of one or two honourable senators on the other side who, when I am endeavouring to discuss a matter of some consequence and seriousness, carry on audible conversation which has no relevance to the debate. We are concerned with the plight of the apple and pear industry. In all seriousness the Opposition put forward an amendment which took into account the general views of the Senate. I want that to penetrate the consciousness of the Senate. We were prepared to consider the view that was expressed on the last occasion we debated this matter that there should be some account of the increase in costs in the industry. I indicated during the second reading debate that the costs involved in the industry required an increase of some 50 per cent in the assistance from $2 to $3 a case. With the assistance of my colleagues from Tasmania I was able to persuade my Party to go beyond that and take into account the views that  Senator Thomas  raised in his contribution to the debate. I think he was one of the few honourable senators, other than those from Tasmania, who contributed to the debate. He pointed out the absurdity of commodity based subsidies. He drew attention to the fact that the Industries Assistance Commission had correctly shown that approximately $ 14,000 was being paid out to every producer in the form of direct subsidies and that this was an anomaly that ought to be taken into consideration. He also pointed out the reason why the Government is pursuing its present policy in respect of this piece of legislation 
We took it that we ought to give the Government an option either to consider the viewpoint so ably expressed by all the Tasmanian senators who spoke in the debate last year and this year, that is to increase the subsidy from $2 to $3 a case, or take into account the view that was so strongly held by the majority of Government senators in this place, that is, that that sort of subsidy is not a satisfactory form of subsidy and that some other avenue ought to be explored. That is what the Industries Assistance Commission has recommended. In our amendment we proposed that the Bill be withdrawn for the purpose of giving the government of the day the opportunity to take into account the views of the Senate. As an 
Opposition, we did not believe that it was our responsibility to amend the Bill. It is not the Opposition's responsibility to do this. The responsibility rests with the Government in bringing forward its legislation. Of course,  Senator Wright's  amendment expresses only a point of view as distinct from the amendment we moved which called for the withdrawal of the legislation and consideration of the 2 principles expressed in the amendment. If there is to be any sense of the Senate existing as a House of review, a parliamentary debate on this legislation should produce a result which will have some accountability to the fruitgrowing industry. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland and others who have spoken in the debate have drawn attention to the very difficult conditions which face the industry.  Senator Douglas  McClelland spoke of the inefficiency of marketing. I am pleased that the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Cotton)  referred to this in his contribution. But I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that when I spoke on this matter almost a year ago and again in December of last year I drew attention to the deficiency that exists in the marketing of agricultural products in Australia and the need, therefore, for the Government to carry out some investigation into marketing. That survey has not taken place.  Senator Wright  is correct in drawing attention to the fact that we cannot afford this time lag or to leave in an area of indecision and hesitancy the future of this industry. 
If one examines the debates held in 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976 together with this debate one sees that they were the same in content dealing with the same issue. Even though  Senator Wright  referred to the problems associated with the industry and the costs involved, the fact is that it would not matter if the cost of apples and pears to the domestic market or overseas was half the present price because it is the denial of access to world markets which is the problem that the Government must face up to. Apples could be given away but still there would be the problems of the denial of access to many of the markets that hitherto were available to Australia. 
A matter of some consequence and importance is the degree of unanimity amongst the Tasmanian representatives in this place and their concern about the fate of the industry.  Senator Wright's  amendment expresses a point of view only. It expresses the point of view that we have failed to take into account the necessity to assist the industry to develop non-European markets. That matter was raised in the debate in 
December last year. No initiatives have been taken by this Government to improve access to non-European markets. It seems to me that those concerned about the industry together with those engaged in it do not want to allow this debate to develop into a slanging match between the Opposition and the Government. What we wish to see happen is an understanding of the problem and a narrowing of the differences in order to be able to express a common point of view to the government of the day. 
As an Opposition we are concerned about the parlous state of those engaged in this industry many of whom are earning less than $3,000 per annum. In fact, they are the 'Aunt Sallies' of agriculture. They are the lowest paid section of those engaged in agriculture today. Yet, that is what was said in the speeches in 1970 and 1971. It is about time that governments- and I do not care what their political views are- grappled with the problem. 
I wish to put on record that  Senator Walters  has completely misrepresented my point of view in her contribution to this debate. I refer her to the debates of 2 and 10 December of last year in which I drew attention to the fact that the fate of the apple and the pear industry in Australia was deserving of compassionate treatment. I reject completely any suggestion that the Opposition has not a feeling for those in the industry or has not a feeling for those sectors of agriculture in Australia to which export markets have been denied. It is about time that this matter was moved out of the area of suspicion and of party politics and was moved into the area where this Senate expresses a point of view which will make a tangible advance in the solution of the problems facing the apple and pear industry. In the light of that desire, we are prepared to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wright. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wright's  amendment) be added. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Since the inception of the Incomes Equalisation Deposit scheme 
how many farmers have availed themselves of the scheme; 
what sums of money have been deposited under the scheme; and 
what sums of money have been withdrawn. 
On behalf of  Senator Mulvihill  I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress to pensioners. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in age and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to- 
.  Require each quarterly percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the Consumer Price Index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Is it a fact tha the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manifacturers has appealed to major Sydney retail firms, including Grace Bros Pty Ltd, voluntarily to reduce their imports of apparel to assist local manufacturing industry and unemployment? Did ACAM tell the Minister that it was concerned at the attitude of some retailers who believed tariff protection and devaluation should be of sufficient help to local firms? In the circumstances, can the Minister indicate what action the Government proposes to take to protect industry and employment, and to counter the uncooperative attitude of major retailers? 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would: 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement of the Prime Minister that the price of perishables will be included in the current proposal for a wage-price freeze- a statement which repudiated the pronouncement previously made by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair.  In view of the conflict, which I now accept has been resolved, I ask the Minister: What steps has the Government taken or is it proposing to take to seek discussions and agreement with farm leaders, producers, wholesalers and retailers to achieve that objective of stabilising basic food prices? 
That is what the amendment says. 
Secondly, it is not for a committee to examine the matters that have been analysed in an emotive way, I suggest, and an honourable way by  Senator Wriedt.  The function of this motion is for the Parliament to try to exert its function in foreign affairs and defence and to make the Parliament the judge either one way or the other. I suggest that if this motion is carried and the matter goes to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence- I hope the motion is not carried- it is inevitable and almost mandatory that that Committee will then have to investigate the cause of the situation with which we are now confronted. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to acknowledge and to recognise that for long after every man here has ceased to sit in the Senate or in another place the relationship between Indonesia and Australia will go on and on. We have to establish a stability in this area in the context, whether we like it or not, of that great nation of 120, 130 or 140 million people- how many people is not important- which lies to our immediate north. We have problems in relation to this country that relate, for example, to the economic zone which is now emerging as the law of the sea- the ability to understand what is going to be the boundary between Indonesian Timor and Australia. Whether we like it or not, we have to obtain friendly relations with this country. Enough has been done- in a most tragic sense, I admit- to exacerbate the relations between this empire or great nation that lies to our north without further exacerbating it at the present moment. Endless opportunities lie at the hands of the Australian Government to repair in a manifest way what may be the wrongdoings that have occurred as a result of indecisions by the Australian Government or, perhaps, improper decisions by the Australian Government over the past five or six years. 
It is a harsh and hard thing for me to say, but the fate of future generations of Australians, Timorese and Indonesians is of far greater importance than the brutalities that may or may not have occurred in that area. When I put these things in the balance of human affairs as between nations, however harsh it may sound, it is far more important that the relationship between the 160 or 170 million people who lie to our north and the 14 million people who live in Australia is maintained. It is far more important that the reparations that we as a reasonably wealthy nation can sustain and proffer should be exerted now under the influence of the Government and the Foreign Minister of the Day to exercise the greatest capacity that lies within the Austraiian electorate and the Australian Government to repair the omissions and commissions that have been caused in part because of foolishness on the part of the Australian Government over the past 3 years. It fills me with alarm that we may irreparably damage the relations that will be of manifest importance to a rising generation in Australia- a generation which we cannot see. We should not try to take this matter out of the hands of the present Government which, it seems to me, is making an effort of enormous consequence to establish a relationship between the Indonesian Government and the Australian Government that will allow the Australian Government to intervene, to its maximum capacity, to restore civility, comity and compatibility. 
We should try to repair the relationship that has almost been destroyed between the Republic of Indonesia and Australia. Once that relationship can be re-established there exists in the Australian Government and the Australian people a capacity to ameliorate the conditions that have caused so much distress. For the Parliament to attempt to interfere at this time of enormous sensitivity- it is a matter of enormous sensitivity to the Indonesians- would exacerbate that situation and would condemn the East Timorese to a further degree of suffering which I cannot sustain. I say to honourable senators: For heaven's sake, allow this Government to repair the damage in the relationship between Australia and Indonesia. The reparation of that relationship will enable the Australian Government and the Australian people to mitigate and to obtain satisfaction in the matters that are distressing the Senate and which the Senate is debating tonight. Therefore, I earnestly beseech my Senate colleagues to reject both the motion and the amendment. 
On 17 March and each Thursday night since on which the Senate has sat it has debated my motion for the establishment of a Senate select committee to examine a number of features of the tragedy- as it has been described by every senator in this debate- of East Timor. I think it is interesting to note that in the debate this evening and on other evenings no senator, whether Government, Independent or Opposition, has endeavoured to defend the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia on 7 December 1975. As the debate has unfolded it has become apparent that every honourable senator who has spoken has, in retrospect, accepted some measure of responsibility for the events which have occurred over the last 1 8 months or so. Just 3 years ago on 25 April, that is on Anzac Day 1974, the Portuguese armed forces movement overthrew the oldest dictatorship in the world. As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said in his contribution, there then began a process of decolonisation or decay of an old colonial empire. While there may be some merit in what the honourable senator said about the inability of the Senate, the Parliament or the citizens of this country to concern themselves with the events which have taken place in Africa, the fact is that senators and members of the national Parliament have concerned themselves with the events of Portuguese East Timor in the almost 3 years since the dictatorship collapsed in Portugal. The right of self-determination of the people of East Timor which had been occupied by Portugal for centuries was placed on the agenda. Suddenly they were confronted with the possibility of determining their own affairs, of establishing their own form of government. 
In one way or another a considerable number of members of the national Parliament, perhaps more particularly honourable senators, have shown some interest in the turn of events in subsequent years. I think it would be wrong for the Senate and, for that matter, for the Parliament to suggest that the interest which we are expressing about Timor has some party political objective. It was suggested by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers-  I regret the use of his words- that I was seeking a witch hunt in what has happened in the past, a witch hunt into the misdemeanours of my current leader. I think that sort of approach to the problems of self-determination and of human suffering in Timor is to be regretted. Nothing is gained by involving ourselves, either as individuals or as a collective will of the Senate, into a witch hunt or into determining who was right or who was wrong in the tragedy which every honourable senator acknowledges has taken place in Timor. 
We have the spirit of this motion. The motivation of my Party has been not to apportion blame, although each and every one of us would have a point of view about the matter, but to give to the Parliament the right to call whatever evidence is available to study the facts as we are able to assemble them and to make a recommendation to the Senate. Of course, the committee which we seek to set up gives the majority vote to the Government. Inbuilt into the committee which we proposed should be appointed we give the Government the majority of the membership. I do not suggest that the committee would, at any stage, do other than carry out an objective analysis of what is able to be established in fact and what were the circumstances relating to the events in Timor. For the record and for Government senators who may have been influenced by the intemperate language of  Senator Withers,  let me state clearly that a motion was placed under general business for my Party by  Senator Georges.  It was referred to my Party's Foreign 
Affairs Committee. Arising out of that Committee's deliberations and considerations of the issue of Timor, a motion was forwarded back to the executive of my Party. 
Arising out of that, the federal parliamentary Labor Party unanimously established the motion which is placed before the Senate for its consideration. I was honoured to be selected by the Leader of my Party in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  to move the motion because of my consistent interest in the problems of East Timor. I think suggestions that there is some other motivation, some other purpose or something unnecessary to be considered by the Senate can be shown to be untrue. I assert most decidedly that it is not the intention that we should use the Senate for this purpose. I believe that when  Senator Withers  was debating another question involving the rights of individuals in the Senate in September 1974, he stated in relation to  Senator Willesee  when we were talking about the problems of Timor: 
I believe he has no sensitivity on human rights. 
What has to be stressed is that there is in this chamber, in the Parliament, a sensitivity on human rights which transcends party politics, factions and political attitudes. There is a concern for the rights of people and a concern for the rights of the people of East Timor. It is a concern about the fundamental principle of the right of people to determine their own affairs. I do not know what a Senate select committee could find. But I do not think we should shirk our responsibilities and not give the committee the opportunity to examine the issues on Timor. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack in his contribution tonight, which I think I can say was measured with a certain degree of moderation, suggested that there was some attitude in this place- obviously he was referring not only to the Opposition but also to members of his own Party- of selective morality. I do not think there is any credence in that assertion, nor in his view that because of the way events have unfolded in South Africa we are inconsistent in our concern as we have not taken up the issues which have developed in that part of the world. The fact is of course, that at the end of the Second World War some 64 nations established the United Nations. That number has now grown to 140. In a variety of ways those seventy-six or more countries have established their own form of government and self-determination. None of us can ever suggest that we have approved of every way in which those countries have won nationhood. No one would ever suggest that we approve of the course of action which every country took as it established its independence and was admitted to the United Nations organisation. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack, in relation to South Africa, has failed to understand that the United Nations, by an overwhelming majority and in many cases by votes in excess of ninety with a small number of countries abstaining and with one or two countries in opposition- often countries like Spain- called upon the rest of the United Nations organisation to assist in decolonisation and in the movement for independence in Africa. The United Nations similarly has dealt with the issue of East Timor. It would not be proper for me to say that some members of the Government might have had a selective attitude in respect of other events in South East Asia but we are not now trying to apportion blame or to establish who was right on the question of Vietnam or in regard to our relationships with China or whether Angola, Mozambique or Chile acted in this and that sort of a way. What we are concerned about is an activity or tragedy that took place in our nearest neighbour. It is something that happened within our own region. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack has said that if he has to weigh up- I think they were the words that he used- the question of whether he should be concerned about the few people in Timor or about the future generations of Australians and Indonesians he would have to concern himself with the future and not with the present. I am afraid that is a logic and a morality that I cannot accept and I hope that it is a logic and a morality that the majority of members of the national Parliament will not accept. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that on 2 occasions a considerable number of members of all political parties in the national Parliament have publicly expressed an attitude about the rights of people in East Timor. After all, that view about the future generations was one of the views that was expressed in 1938 and 1939 by the then Prime Minister of England,  Mr Chamberlain,  when he talked of peace in our time and said that he was saving the future generations from war. That was to be proved to be so illogically and so immorally wrong in the short space of a few months after that. What has to be clearly drawn from the lessons of history is that aggression begets aggression and that is what is taking place in our region. It took place in West Irian, it is taking place in Timor and we cannot be sure that it will not take place again in our region. 
What honourable senators on the Government side have to do, because clearly the Government has the majority support in the Senate, is to weigh up the questions of whether Indonesia can be trusted now and in the future, whether Indonesia's behaviour is satisfactory from the point of view of our relationship with that country and our relationship with a small country like Timor and whether Indonesia is prepared to carry out the behest of the United Nations. I put it to the Senate that there is abundant  evidence to  indicate that we cannot regard Indonesia as being a monolith, that we cannot regard Indonesia as having one point of view, that there are not forces within Indonesia, within the Indonesian Parliament and within the Indonesian leadership whose views do not accord with the views expressed by a number of us in this place. Just as there are serious doubts about Indonesia's attitude to Australia, and I say that from an all party point of view, so there are serious doubts within the Indonesian Government itself, and there is evidence to show that we should be aiding the forces of moderation that exist in Indonesia. We should not be aiding those forces that have succeeded in imposing their will upon the Indonesian Government. 
I want to refer the Senate to an Indonesian newspaper printed in English and distributed weekly called  The Asian-  this copy was published in the week from 17 to 23 September 1972- so that we can appreciate the views that were expressed at that stage about the relationship between Indonesia and Timor and what happened in the subsequent years. The article states: 
The Portuguese Governor of Timor, Colonel Fernando Alves  Alderia  is known on both sides . . . 
Here we are talking of the Timorese side as well as the Indonesian side- 
As a 'good man', anxious not only to develop his pan of the island, but also to develop good relations with the Indonesians. Colonel El Tari, the Governor of Indonesian Timor, told me that he 'gets along nicely' with Governor Alderia 

 Mr Rosihan Anwar of the Asian News Service who wrote the article in this publication which is freely published in Jakarta said: 
I was present at a very significant encounter that took place between General Ali Murtopo and a student of the  Undana  University of Kupang. The student fired the first shot. 
I want to remind the Senate of who General Ali Murtopo is. He was the general who masterminded the invasion of Dili and the other parts of Timor on 7 December 1975. In this article the student in his interview with the General is quoted as saying: 
We want Portuguese Timor back in the Indonesian fold. What is your opinion? 
The article continues: 
Why do you want Portuguese Timor? Have you any knowledge of a legal foundation for this? the General retorted. 
Yes' responded the student. 'In ancient times we had a Rajah here who could boldly say 'My kingdom knows no bounds ' '. 
General Ali Murtopo explained, very thoughtfully: 'West Irian was our last national territorial claim. That was the part of the former Dutch East Indies territory which did not revert to us when sovereignty was transferred to us on December 27, 1 949. Portuguese Timor was never part of the Dutch East Indies. Therefore we have no claim on it. We have got back West Irian now. And I had my share of the fighting there'. 
He went on to describe some of the conflict and experiences in the West Irian invasion. So the Indonesians themselves have acknowledged that they had no territorial ambitions and no legal foundation for wanting to incorporate that part of Portuguese Timor into Indonesia. Of the various spokesmen to whom I have repeatedly referred in my contributions in the Senate,  Mr Malik,  the Indonesian Foreign Minister, has gone on public record as saying that Indonesia had no territorial ambitions in Timor. Time and again he has been associated with those sentiments. So we are entitled to say that whilst we appreciate that relationships with Indonesia have a special place, Indonesia's record in this respect leaves very much to be desired. I am unable to accept the very specious argument- I find it to be ill-conceived- that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack put before the Senate this evening that the Parliament should not interfere in a matter of foreign affairs. That is what he put before us. He said that it was one of the prerogatives of 
Government. It was not the role of the Parliament to concern itself with foreign affairs. He said that baldly and boldly in the face of the fact that we have not only a Senate Select Committee dealing with foreign affairs and defence but also a Joint Parliamentary Committee. Surely it is within our province as members of this Parliament, as elected representatives of the Australian people, as citizens as well as humanitarians, as those concerned with the rights of others, to make a determination and, I suggest, a favourable determination on this motion. 
I suggest to the Senate that some of the arguments that have been used- that we should not concern ourselves with evidence; that we should not concern ourselves with history; that we should not concern ourselves with past events- have been dealt with very adequately by honourable senators opposite as well as by honourable senators from my own Party. This evening  Senator Harradine  suggested that we should do what  Senator Withers  suggested should not be done, and that is to engage ourselves in a party political exercise, in some sort of witch hunt; that we should discount the very strong feeling that exists in so many non-political quarters in Australia for a public airing of the issues of Timor. He suggested that we should examine the moguls of the Press, to use his words, in respect to the 6 Australian journalists who went there simply for the purpose of establishing objective facts.  Mr President,  I understand that I am obliged to seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 10.3 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  calling on cattle producers to withhold stock from market, constitute Government policy. 
Would such a proposal seriously raise domestic meat prices and affect the fight against inflation. 
Would the threat to withhold stock constitute a strike by capital; if so, does this mean that the Government now supports strike action by labour and capital to get a higher price for their commodity. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate the state of negotiations with Japanese representatives regarding the sale of Australian beef to Japan? Is it a fact that at best the Japanese will maintain existing quotas or at worst will succumb to domestic pressures of their own cattlemen and reduce the quota of beef imports from Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government decided to continue to fund non-government agencies concerned with community aid overseas? Further, is it a fact that the Government simultaneously decided to reduce substantially government financial assistance to underdeveloped countries? 
The Australian Labor Party in suggesting that there ought to be a debate in the Senate on the manufacturing industry has acted properly and responsibly. It is long overdue that the Senate and the Parliament should concern itself with the malaise that exists in manufacturing industry in this country. Whatever may be the reasons for the failure of the Government to act on this issue, the longer it fails to produce such a document, so that the Parliament can debate the issues contained therein, the longer will manufacturing industry remain in a state of uncertainty and confusion. After all, the Government seems rather loath from time to time to debate economic matters in the Parliament. For example, as yet the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  has not put down the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the wage and price freeze which supposedly was important enough to be debated in the House of Representatives last week. So far, the document has not even been presented in this place. It would appear that there is a reluctance on the part of the Government to debate economic issues. In the light of the views of industry itself I think it has to be said that the longer a White Paper is delayed the longer will any economic recovery similarly be delayed. 
I shall refer to the comments made by one of the Government speakers in this debate. He said that if we debate these matters we contribute to the uncertainty and confusion in manufacturing industry. I refer him to a report which was submitted to the Government by the Metal Trades Industry Association in October 1976. 1 want to refer to some of the comments made in the final chapter of that submission. The Association said: 
The Australian economy is not functioning well- the Government is still trying to bring it out of its most serious post-war recession. 
Unemployment has risen to a level unheard of since the 1 930 's depression, and it is still rising. 
There is tremendous waste of resources represented by people out of work, idle plant, buildings unoccupied. 
Inflation has reduced the value of the dollar and contrary to established economic theory, has influenced consumers to save rather than spend. 
Our competitive ability against the rest of the world has deteriorated by 17 per cent since 1971, as the latest annual report of the IAC has pointed out . . . 
Real growth in the economy is so low, if present at all, that it can no longer be considered the springboard for sustained economic activity. 
In this context manufacturing industry finds itself operating under very difficult conditions and unusual uncertainty. 
The report goes on to say: 
In fact it is essential for industry to know the Government's policies and plans, by virtue of the fact that it is a mixed economy, in which the Government exerts a major influence. 
Those concerned with industry must necessarily look ahead. It is not being suggested that industry should or will stay rigidly the same. Indeed, even without intervention by others, industry is changing in one way or another all the time, in reacting to the market place, technological developments and international trading conditions. 
In the past, however, industry's decisions concerning investment and expansion were made against a background of confidence- confidence that despite economic fluctuations there was consensus that for Australia to meet its national objectives, a stable and diversified manufacturing sector was a basic requirement. 
Much of this confidence is now eroded, and hence manufacturers are not responding to the Government's call for an investment led recovery. 
Of course, the investment-led and consumer-led recovery was the very strategy on which this Government operated its 1976-77 Budget. Yet, in some 17 or 18 months since this Government came to office it has not produced one report dealing with the subjects which have been referred to by Opposition speakers today. In the same period of time the Labor Government produced a very worthwhile and objective Green Paper on Rural Problems and a voluminous report which dealt objectively and properly with the problems facing manufacturing industry in Australia. We have to say that this Government is not carrying out the sort of fundamental review that is necessary for business confidence to be reestablished. 
Of course, I know that this Government is faced with the same sorts of problems that exist elsewhere. No government anywhere in the world where inflation, economic downturn and unemployment exist can claim success in its efforts. Surely it is now apparent that the flimsy, superficial and illegal methods used in 1975 to destroy a constitutionally elected government had no substance and, in point of fact, contributed to this lack of business confidence we hear so much about. Clearly the Fraser Administration which used the state of the economy as the excuse to develop its campaign to destroy the Whitlam Government is having no success in its endeavours to develop a healthy economy. Its failure to produce a report on manufacturing industry, and its failure to achieve any worthwhile success on the state of the economy in relation to wages and prices is an indication of its inability to develop properly an alternative strategy. It is having no more success than the governments of France, Germany, Japan or the United States. Even those countries whose manufacturing industries- I am referring particularly to West Germany and Japan- at the end of World War II were given a massive input of American dollars, expertise and sophisticated new and modern machinery after the destruction of their internal economies following their defeat in the war, are now in difficulty. They, like the rest of the industrialised world, cannot find the answers to the current economic dilemma. 
I suggest that the inability of this Government to make any fundamental review of the nature of the economy and the problems besetting manufacturing industry and the divisions that therefore exist within the Government are the reasons why the report on manufacturing industry has not yet been dealt with and placed before the Australian Parliament and the Australian community for a public debate. It is clear that we are not dealing just with an Australian phenomenon, as we were told in 1975. The problems are much more manifold and much more fundamental. Manufacturing industry in Australia has been in difficulty for more than 10 years. It was pointed out in evidence before a parliamentary committee that there had been a downturn in private investment in manufacturing industry since 1967. That was 5 years before a Federal Labor government came to power. 
Nothing this Government has done since it come to power and nothing it has contemplated in its legislative program will improve the health of manufacturing industry. It is almost a century old. It has the support of tariffs and of government intervention from the first day of its inception. Firstly, it was a means of revenue support. Subsequently, it was a means of developing an alternative industry, as it emerged after Federation. The Federal Government took initiatives to place manufacturing industry on a firm and financial basis. For the last 70 years there have been protective tariffs designed principally to encourage local manufacture. By the time World War II was finished manufacturing was contributing something like 25 per cent of our gross domestic product. Now 25 per cent of the Australian work force is involved in manufacturing. There has been a decline, not very discernible but discernible, since 1967. It is that 25 per cent of the work force which is beginning to be unemployed in manufacturing industry. 
Let us have a breakdown of where that 25 per cent of the Australian work force is placed. Of this 25 per cent, 72 per cent are located in the 5 main urban centres on the east coast of Australia. In New South Wales they are located at Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. In Victoria they are located at Melbourne and Geelong. Yet a month after the Wran Government was elected in New South Wales, the Prime Minister- ignoring the fact that there was a report on manufacturing industry known as the Jackson report and ignoring the structural difficulties that manufacturing industry had in Australia- in his typical, inane and inept way, had the temerity to suggest that the decline in the work force in New South Wales arose primarily as a result of  Mr Wran's  election. The Prime Minister ignored the basic facts encompassed in the report on manufacturing industry. Australia's rapid industrialisation took place in the post-war years. There was tremendous accumulation of capital as a result in the boom years of the 1950s and 1960s. It is a question of trying to work out what has happened to that capital, why it has not been applied to modernisation of manufacturing industry and why it is now leaving Australia in great quantities and finding its place in the cheap labour centres of Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, the Philippines and Singapore. The fact that any Australian dollars in the form of capital go out of this country to cheap labour content countries which produce goods which are imported into this country must contribute to further structural difficulties of manufacturing industry in this country. 
The structural problem that faces manufacturing industry is similar to the structural problems in agriculture. I do not think any honourable senator would disagree with me about the difficulties that face the Australian economy, as distinct from the general malady that faces countries in which capital is the predominant force on the world scale. In addition to those things which are affected by world trade changes and by changes in the pattern of trade, we have problems of structural difficulties in manufacturing and secondary industries. Yet we still hear Government members suggesting that those factors should be set aside and that we should have a development of our mineral resources, as if that would provide us with the wherewithal to bring about some resurgence in the national economy.  Senator Messner  obviously has not read the Industries Assistance Commission report dealing with the problems associated with the change in the structure of the Australian economy. That report drew attention to the unbridled and excessive acceleration of use of our mineral deposits in the late 1 960s that forced the Whitlam Government in 1973 and 1974 to revalue. It would not have mattered which Party was in power. There was such a massive outflow of profits as a result of the exploitation of our resources and the sale of those goods overseas, coming in the quantities that it did, that the Government was forced to revalue. 
In the process of the revaluation and in the process of" the structural changes arising out of the unplanned and very rapid development of our mining resources we imposed extra stresses and strains upon our manufacturing and agricultural industries. The Government sits back and allows its  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  to go on a world tour and suggest the way forward as far as the Australian economy is concerned is to stimulate income. The Prime Minister suggested that all we have to do is reduce the cost of production in the form of wages. He ignored the influence that the market place plays in the processes of determining prices and the cost of goods. He suggested that all we have to do is reduce real wages and, when we have done that, there will be no further problems within the economy. He ignored the clear facts that last year there was an increase of about 33 per cent in profitability, that real wages fell by 3.3 per cent and that in the same period the unemployment rate rose by 17 per cent. If we cut back wages to reduce costs, we reduce the capacity of the community to buy the goods that we are producing in an over-produced situation in the domestic scene. There would be an inability on the part of the community to absorb the imports from overseas. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.47 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. To some extent it relates to a question asked earlier to which I listened with some interest. What is the purpose of the Government's proposal to establish the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation? Further, will the Corporation have the power to acquire, classify and distribute meat so that the return to the producers can be stabilised and increased? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Are overseas visitors or personnel arriving by direct flight at Pine Gap and other foreign bases in Australia exempted from customary immigration, health or customs checks, or subjected to different immigration, health or customs checks from other overseas visitors? If so, how can this fact be reconciled with the statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that the same provisions and checks would apply? If not, can the Minister explain the reported fact that direct flights from overseas to Pine Gap with no clearance through Richmond Royal Australian Air Force base near Sydney have occurred? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existence of a system of double taxation of personal incomes whereby both the Australian Government and State Governments had the power to vary personal income taxes would mean that taxpayers who worked in more than one State in any one year would: 
be faced with complicated variations in his or her personal income taxes between States; and 
b ) find that real after-tax wages for the same job would vary from State to State even when gross wages were advertised as being the same; and 
Require citizens to maintain records of income earned in each State. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a system of double income tax on personal incomes be not introduced. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in that capacity and also in his capacity as representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware of the grave problems facing the foundry industry, arising from the recent high volume of imports? Has the Government any evidence of the uncompetitive practices of overseas corporations and countries which constitute dumping of products in Australia? What measures does the Government suggest can be taken to eliminate these unfair trading practices? Will the Minister give consideration to tabling all documents dealing with this problem? 
I rise in this debate because I am concerned not only with the present issue of a week 's stand-down of" workers by the management of General Motors-Holden 's Pty Ltd but also with the practices of the multi-national companies throughout the Australian economy. Therefore, I find myself very much in conflict with some of the remarks of  Senator Jessop.  It might be regarded as unusual that I, as shadow Minister for Agriculture, should in 2 weeks running be involved in a debate about the problems facing manufacturing industry. I find myself in complete agreement with an increasing number of spokesmen of farm organisations who believe that the future of agriculture in Australia depends upon a prosperous domestic market, recognising as they do that about 50 per cent of all that we produce is consumed on the domestic market and that any downturn in any sector of the economy therefore affects the prosperity not only of the whole economy but the rural sector in particular. Therefore there is a need for full employment and a prosperous economy. I believe that the greater part of the present economic ills facing this country arose from the unrestricted, unsupervised and unknown activities of the multi-national corporations in our economy. 
In my contribution today I intend to look at both the immediate issue at hand and the role of one of those multi-nationals- GM-H- in our economy. The announcement of the management of GM-H that was splashed across the newspapers on 30 April stunned most people. It read: 
The sudden drop in the market has left the company with uneconomically high stocks, finished vehicles and components in hand. As a result, the company is seeking through union officials the co-operation of production employees and production-related employees at all plants to take one week of their 1977 annual leave entitlement in advance '. 
If  Senator Jessop  has any illusions about community concern, I suggest he look at the various editorials as well as comments by leaders of his own party because there is genuine concern in the Australian community about what is happening to the motor industry and to GM-H in particular. In effect, the 16 000 blue collar workers have been asked to take leave coinciding with the May school vacation. They have been given just a brief fortnight's notice. As in most similar situations the management has seen fit to apply this policy only to the blue collar workers. The 8000 white collar workers employed by GM-H have not been requested or directed to take enforced leave. Thus, immediately upon reading this announcement I was struck by the elitist bias. Again, as in 1961 when the credit squeeze had its effects on car sales GM-H has concentrated its cost saving measures upon the blue collar workers. As an example of GM-H tactics, in 1961 a large number of blue collar workers were retrenched bringing the numbers employed back to the 1958 level of approximately 1 8 500 employees. Once again we see the management of GM-H, when faced with an adverse economic situation, which may or may not be of a temporary nature, immediately rushing to relieve an economic burden at the expense of its work force- the blue collar workers. 
Understandably, the unions involved rejected the proposals. Although the GM-H management has said that the proposal was necessary to avoid retrenchments, during discussions with the unions on 2 May it would not give any assurance to the unions that if the stand-down was agreed to by the unions there would be no retrenchments. In other words, the management is prepared to enter into a public relations exercise about avoiding retrenchments but will make no agreements to refrain from retrenchment action. Again, the management has taken a biased and anti-employee stance. Fortunately, this roughshod and elitist proposal has met uniform opposition. Several Premiers and the Government have expressed regret and consternation at this proposal. One Premier made what I believe to be a telling point when he suggested that a compulsory holiday was a common practice in the United States of America to meet overproduction problems, but was a most unusual measure to adopt in Australia. I shall return to this later in my remarks. 
At this point I should like to review the background to this latest proposal by the GM-H management. We must see this decision against a background of GM-H stability and ownership. As honourable senators no doubt are aware, GM-H was established through the merger of 2 companies in 1931. The original paid up capital was split between $1,120,000 Australian-owned capital and $1,930,000 United States-owned capital. In 1959 and 1960 all Australian-owned equity was purchased by the parent company, General Motors, for a total of $1,960,000. Since that date GM-H has been a totally-owned subsidiary of the giant United States multi-national corporation. It is very interesting to note a report in today's newspaper to the effect that in the first quarter of this year, 1977, General Motors in the United States returned a profit of $903m. 
If the company has been aggressive to its work force in times of trouble, it has been no less aggressive in its maintenance of being fully owned by the United States parent company. In fact, in 1945 during the discussions with the Government concerning a Holden car project  Mr Laurence  Hartnett, the Managing Director of GM-H, made it clear that the United States parent company was not going to spend a cent of United States finance on this project. The General Motors finance committee told  Mr Hartnett: 
We 're not going to spend one cent of United States money on this. If GM-H wants a car, it will have to find all the cash for it in Australia. 
As is well known, the Chifley Government, in response to this attitude, raised $6m from the Commonwealth Bank and the Bank of Adelaide. If the parent company, General Motors, was most unenthusiastic in providing initial development capital, it has received considerable dividends from its Australian operation. It must have been received with some enthusiasm because from 1 948 to 1 976 the parent company received in dividends from GM-H in Australia $373,216,000. I should like the approval of the Senate to table a document which shows the net profit after tax of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd in Australia. In the years 1948 to 1976 it accumulated profits of $592,495,000 and in the same period paid to the parent company the sum of $373,2 1 6,000, to which I just referred. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT Senator Devitt)-  Are you seeking leave,  Senator, to  incorporate that document in  Hansard ? 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="073232197705041_27_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073232197705041_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

Whilst this is a considerable amount of money to be paid to the parent company- in real terms it is far greater than $373m- the parent company also has received other payments. The Prices Justification Tribunal report on General Motors-Holden's dated 21 December 1973 referred to other payments to the United States parent company. The report stated: 
Certain payments have been made for specialised sources and the like and in addition considerable transactions have taken place between General Motors-Holden's Pty. Ltd. and  the American company and overseas subsidiaries by way of export and import trade. 
Just how much these extra payments to the parent company have been worth is not publicly known. In the 23 August Prices Justification Tribunal report on GM-H the Australian Council of Trade Unions advocate,  Mr Jolly,  is reported to have made the following clear statement: 
Much of the information furnished to the Tribunal in a confidential exhibit should be made available for public examination. 
The ACTU representative later made reference to the fact that many companies, including GM-H, failed to produce consistent technical data over a considerable period of time. I raise this point because I believe these transfer pricing arrangements to be widely practised not only by GM-H but also by many other multi-nationals in Australia. In an extensive work in support of American investment in Australia, Donald T. Brash referred to these devices to avoid taxation and stated: 
The writer is aware of at least two companies which commenced payment of a substantial service fee in 1 962 after the Australian Uniform Companies Act compelled many foreign companies to disclose their profits for the first time, and payment of large service fees is certainly one reason why American-owned companies can sometimes appear to pursue conservative dividend policies. One firm, for example, with an admittedly conservative dividend policy, pays 'engineering fees' equal to  Vh  per cent on the sale of all American-designed products, and these fees are 'annually more than five times the size of the biggest dividend ever remitted by us to the U.S.'. Another firm refrained from declaring any dividend for more than a decade after it commenced manufacture in Australia, but has paid a service fee, now equivalent to about 7 per cent of sales revenue, since establishment. In 1962 the American parent of this company received substantially more from this fee than it did from the dividend of the Australian firm. 
There is no other way to describe it: A great amount of fiddling with the books by accountants employed by multi-national corporations is taking place in this country. It is certain that we must consider measures to terminate this type of tax avoidance which, in effect, is a rip-off of all Australians. As I said, in the case of GM-H we have little knowledge of exactly how much Australians have lost in taxes. That is shrouded in secrecy and hidden in often meaningless compilations of the company's public relations exercises, such as the GM-H advertisement on 18 January 1975. The GM-H company is not alone in adopting this strategy of tax avoidance and in adopting the following philosophy outlined by the authors of the book  Global Reach: 
Minimising local profits is often an essential public relations strategy. 
One could discuss these points in considerable detail. However, 2 points in relation to GM-H are perfectly clear: Firstly, its tendency to make the work force bear the brunt of economic problems and, secondly, it has paid a massive dividend to the overseas parent- a dividend which, if one took into account special payments and applied a current value analysis, must exceed $ 1,000m. Yet the company attempts to put the current economic burdens on those workers who produce the value of the goods in its factories in this country. 
In recent times GM-H has claimed that it has come upon severe economic times. Its market share has dropped from 39.3 per cent in 1956 to 25.9 per cent in 1976. This has occurred due to a number of factors, including the rise of Japanese investment and sales in the market. Other factors have included increasingly out of date design and over-production. Further, the rapid escalation of the purchase price of automobiles has tended to reduce the number of people prepared to make such large outlays. 
In the current circumstances a cut in sales tax has been advocated by both the unions concerned and the GM-H management. There is little doubt that the 27.5 per cent sales tax on vehicles is excessive. It must be remembered that high levels of sales tax were introduced as a means to limit demand inflation. It certainly was not intended as a long term measure. It compares most unfavourably with the 6 per cent sales tax applicable in the United States, for example. The Government should consider a cut in sales tax to stimulate sales. The statement by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  to the effect that sales cuts are 'not on ' is again an example of intransigence and a failure to initiate action to improve the economy and to prevent loss of jobs. Whilst there is a good case for such a stimulatory move, I am of the belief also that there is evidence of misjudgment by the GM-H management. The current shortfall of 9000 vehicles unsold compared with the figures for the same period last year appears to have been due to a miscalculation on projected sales. GM-H production appears to have been based on the record car sales in the industry during 1976 in which 602 000 vehicles were sold. 
Finally I turn to some of the more long term problems of the industry. In recent months several companies have announced plans for major expansions. The Toyota organisation, the Nissen Motor Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd, the Ford Motor Co. of Australia and even GM-H have announced expansion plans. We have to keep in mind that these companies have little or no Australian equity. In the case of the Toyota expansion, Australians will have only a 5 per cent share. This expansion of foreign ownership increases the now generally recognised trend for more and more decisions affecting the Australian economy to be made in the boardrooms of New York, Tokyo, London and other capitals. Economic journals such as  Syntec  have raised this problem. This must have effects on the ability of any Australian government to make necessary long term plans and structural adjustments in this industry. 
Secondly, 2 major interrelated problems will have to be met in the industry and by the Government in making long term policy decisions. These are, firstly, the question of import competition and, secondly, the move by Australian consumers towards smaller less polluting and less energy using vehicles. Both these points relate to quotas, expansion and Australian content decisions which must be made by the Government. The decisions will not be made in response to panic moves by companies such as GM-H. The decisions will have to be made taking into account structural problems such as unemployment and the increasing world trend towards greater trade between nations. Yet I stress that, if structural adjustments need to be made in the near future, they must be made in the full awareness of the necessity to institute full Government programs to avoid and to avert social problems that almost certainly will arise. If a decision means less jobs in an industry, the workers must be provided with full retraining and placement in new jobs. I support the motion moved so ably by  Senator Wriedt. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the announcement by  Mr Harders,  Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, concerning the transfer of an officer who gave advice in his own free time to a member of Parliament. Did the Attorney-General authorise  Mr Harders  to make this statement? On what grounds is it considered that the officer placed himself in conflict with his departmental duties? Does the Minister consider that  Mr Harders'  action infringes the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111? Will the Minister clarify the ambit of duty of departmental officers as it relates to their own time and will he indicate the guidelines which exist for public servants? Does  Mr Harders'  decision mean that public servants cannot engage in political activities outside their normal working hours? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What percentage of unemployed persons receiving social security unemployment benefits have had their benefits withdrawn on the ground that they were not entitled to the benefit, in the last year. 
) Since 1 3 December 1975, how many people have been prosecuted for receiving unemployment benefits to which they were not entitled. 
3 ) What percentage was acquitted. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
1 ) Are there immigration program targets set each year on a country by country basis, or on a regional basis. 
For the year 1976-77 what are the projected numbers of migrants sought to be obtained from India, Great Britain and Ireland, Italy, Greece, France, Chile, Malta, Argentina, South Africa, Lebanon, Brazil, United States  of  America, New Zealand and Indonesia. 
How many migrants have arrived to date under the abovementioned program for the countries referred to above. 
What sums of money have been spent on migration advertising by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in the countries referred to above. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, is related to the question just answered by the Minister. Has the Indonesian Government or the United States oil company Oceanic Exploration made any approach to the Australian Government regarding the right to explore 15 million acres off the south coast of Timor extending to the mid-point of the sea between Timor and Australia? Further, is it not a fact that the Federal Government and the Western Australian Government in the 1960s granted franchises to explore that region to other oil companies, including one Australian consortium? In view of the clear conflict existing on these leases, what action does the Australian Government contemplate taking to resolve the dispute? 
Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen reports by the New  Zealand Manufacturers  Federation that New Zealand faces a severe recession unless there is a significant change in the country's balance of payments and that therefore access to the Australian market is imperative to the survival of the New Zealand economy? Is it a fact that in recent times the New Zealand Government has made fresh approaches to the Australian Government to extend the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement? Can the Minister indicate the consideration the Government is giving to these propositions and how they fit into the White Paper on manufacturing which was presented to the Parliament this week? 
I would like to draw a matter to the attention of the Committee. On the days on which Senate Estimates Committee A was meeting-that is, on 26 April and 3 May- matters relating to intelligence activities in this country were not receiving as much prominence as they have received subsequently. Looking through the original estimates, the estimates which we are asked to consider now, I find it hard to understand why there is no allocation shown for the service known as the Australian Security Intelligence Service, which is one of the adjuncts of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I beg your pardon? 
I did not say 'ASIO'. I said the 'Australian Security Intelligence Service', as distinct from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I remind honourable senators that on previous occasions during Senate Estimates Committee hearings questions have been asked about funding for ASIO, which for a number of years appeared at the same level of $4m, and then, as a result of some questions or perhaps just because of inflation, that allocation was increased to $5m. If it is proper for that organisation to be subjected at least to questions in the Senate with respect to the allocation of funding, I find it difficult to understand why ASIS is not dealt with in the same way. Of course, I am not concerned about its activities; I am concerned only about its accountability to the Parliament. 
I think we have to recognise that in recent years the United States Congress and the United States Senate have involved themselves more and more in the control, the auditing of the funding and the day to day activities of intelligence organisations, without involving themselves in what the intelligence organisations are doing. Obviously they have a task to do in their country or in other countries, depending upon the point of view of the person speaking on the matter. It seems to me to be rather recreant of the Department of Foreign Affairs that such itemisation of this particular organisation has not taken place. One could come to the conclusion that this represents concealment of information from the Parliament. If that takes place, honourable senators who wanted to question the activities of the service or to monitor it would be prevented from doing so because no expenditure is allocated for the officers concerned. It is clear that there is such an organisation operating, as there is in the Department of Defence. 
My plea is that these allocations of funds for the organisation be listed. It is up to the Senate or the Parliament, as it has in the United States, if it wants to go further and examine the activities of the organisation in much more detail. I do not believe that it is the prerogative of the Department not to make some reference either in the original estimates or in the estimates for review when they come before this chamber. In the half a dozen years that I have been a member of the Senate I have been interested to note that honourable senators of all shades of opinion have stressed the importance of the role of the Senate in exercising some jurisdiction and some surveillance over the role of the Executive, the role of the Parliament itself, and reviewing activities of the Parliament generally. It seems to me therefore that we have some responsibility to have an examination and an explanation from the Department about the funding of this organisation. 
It so happened that when  Mr Fry, Senator Bonner  and I went on a trip to Timor in September 1975 we were subsequently hosted by a person who has finally been revealed as being a member of the Australian Security Intelligence Service. I refer to  Mr Frank  Favaro. I do not think that  Senator Bonner  had the opportunity of meeting that agent but he was placed at our disposal, interestingly enough, by the Administration at that time. In fact he flew the light aircraft in which  Mr Fry  and I travelled around during our visit to East Timor on the second occasion. He happened to be an Australian who had commercial interests in Dili. Because he knew that we were supporters of the Government he actually put to  Mr Fry  and to me that he ought to be appointed consul to represent Australia in East Timor. On our return,  Senator Poyser,  who was then the Government Whip, asked  Senator Willesee  a question about  Mr Favaro  because it had been suggested in a Melbourne newspaper that he was working for an intelligence organisation in Australia.  Senator Willesee,  who was the Minister for Foreign Affairs, replied to that question and denied that  Mr Favaro  was employed by the agency. 
It was subsequently revealed to both  Senator Willesee  and the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  that  Mr Favaro  was an agent for that organisation, but that information had not been conveyed to the Government or to the Minister. That seems to me to represent something of a departure from the way in which these organisations should be operating. They should be operating at the direction of the Government or the Minister, depending on which organisation they belong to, and should not be acting outside the control of the Executive or of the Prime Minister of the day. This brings into relief these sorts of activities about which there has been some public discussion. I refer to the intelligence agency in the United States commonly known as the CIA, the Central Intelligence Agency. Because the gentleman concerned,  Mr Favaro,  had been recruited to that organisation and because that information was withheld from the Minister, the officer concerned in recruiting  Mr Favaro  to that job was removed from the Service. The Minister took the view that the officer concerned exercised an authority that did not reside in him but resided in the Department. 
Similarly, I think we are entitled to have some explanation about the funds that have been allocated. Are they pan of salaries and allowances or is there some padding in the Estimates? Do they appear in the section dealing with overseas service, or the section dealing with the International Labour Organisation, or the section dealing with the United Nations, or the section dealing with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development? I do not imagine they would be covered in those sections and I am not suggesting they are. But I do think we are entitled to some explanation as to where in the Estimates this Organisation has funding allocated that is approved by the Parliament. Obviously in this debate I do not want to enter into a discussion on the public statements that have been made by  Mr Osborn, Mr Marchetti  or Philip Agee, but having read some of the books that have been written by these gentlemen, it does seem to me that there is a case to be made out for the Parliament to exercise some supervision of the activities of these organisations. If the Parliament in its wisdom decides not to do that I do not think it should abdicate its responsibility in respect of the allocation of funds for the effective functioning of the Organisation. 
The Senate is concluding the debate on the motion I moved some months ago to establish a select committee to inquire into a number of circumstances involving the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia and a number of associated factors including the deaths of 5 Australian journalists and the problems with humanitarian aid. I have spoken on the issue on many occasions. The position of the Australian Labor Party with regard to Australia's obligations to East Timor following the tragic events that unfolded in December 1975 is reasonably clear. In concluding my contribution there are just a few matters that I would like to put to the Senate for its final consideration. Ever since the issue of Timor became relevant to Australia, that is, since the colonial administration began to break down following the revolution that took place in Portugal, there has been a growing interest in this issue and in the right of the Timorese people to self-determination. Even though it would appear that in the subsequent 3 years not a great deal was done at the official level by Australian governments- I speak here in the plural sense- to recognise any obligations in what was happening in Timor, a number of incidents from time to time have shown that the lid cannot be kept on what occurred there. 
So often those people who had an interest in the issue felt that public interest was waning; that there was not much more that they could do; that they had exhausted all the avenues available to them. But from time to time something happens that revives public interest, giving us hope that somewhere in the cold heart of officialdom the issue of Timor might be put under public scrutiny. Jim Dunn's visit to Portugal produced some evidence as did the subsequent inquiry by the United States Congress. This week a Liberal member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly,  Mr Dowd,  appears to have confirmed all that has been said in this place by members of the Government parties and the Opposition. 
I do not think that we can look at this issue now in the way that we looked at it on the last occasion it was debated. I would like particularly to refer the issue back to  Senator Knight, Senator Baume, Senator Scott, Senator Kilgariff  and other honourable senators who have spoken in the debate and who in their own way have expressed concern about the events but have found in their own consciences and their own approaches different ways of looking at the issue. I want them to consider what  Mr Dowd  has said. I want to point out to them who he is and who he represents and to say that surely he is an authority who can be regarded as unimpeachable, one who hitherto has not concerned himself with the issue and one who now has made a fresh plea for public scrutiny of the tragic events of Timor. 

 Mr Dowd has said that acting in his capacity as  President  of the Australian section of the International Commission of Jurists, an organisation that is concerned with the rule of law and human rights, he had occasion on an overseas visit to go to Portugal. In his investigations in pursuance of the truth as he saw it he met a whole variety of people. They confirmed the very impressions and conclusions that he had reached on a previous occasion. He has called for an independent international public inquiry into the alleged atrocities and the circumstances surrounding the Indonesian invasion of East Timor in 1975. He said: 
The world has a right to know what happened in East Timor. If what I have been told is true, and I believe it is then there has been a terrible crime against humanity committed on that island. 
Australia should be especially concerned because Timor is our neighbour, and I am sure the Indonesian Government would want to know if these crimes have been committed so they could bring the perpetrators to justice. 

 Mr Dowd said that his information had come from people who had been direct witnesses or who knew people who had been witnesses. In some quarters doubt has been cast upon the veracity and integrity of  Mr Dunn.  Those of us who know him and have worked with him know that that can be denied.  Mr Dowd  said of the witnesses in his Press statement: 
I cross-examined them, 1 double checked their claims and I am satisfied that what they told me is accurate and there is a prima facie case to be answered in an international inquiry. 
Of course as members of the Parliament we have done all within our power to urge the setting up of an international inquiry. We have placed a case before  President  Carter. Some of us have even written to the United States congressional inquiry. We have appealed to the United Nations in the form of telegrams and joint submissions from all political parties. We have done all that is within our power to bring about such an independent inquiry. We all know that for a variety of reasons which I do not think I should traverse but of which I am sure all honourable senators would be aware, the United Nations cannot and did not take up this issue in the course of its responsibilities. But honourable senators must recognise that there is a responsibility on us as members of the Parliament. We should not be shedding our responsibilities by suggesting that there should be an international inquiry, which we have tried to get. We should not expect the United States Congress or the United States Senate to investigate this matter because, as has been said by so many people on so many occasions, the responsibilities rest within our own region.  Mr John  Dowd has pointed out that Australia has an obligation because Timor is in our region. Every day we read about the need for Australia to have regard to the developments within our region- the developing economic trends in Indonesia, Singapore, the Philippines and so on. 
We cannot escape our obligations by suggesting that somebody else should do the job when an opportunity is afforded us within our own Parliament, within our own chamber, and to each of us, to conduct a select inquiry which will clearly be dominated, in terms of numbers, by the Government. The form which the inquiry takes will be under the control of the majority section of the Senate. If the Senate is able to exercise its independence, as we have heard on so many occasions that it is- we have seen a great deal of evidence of that in respect of funeral benefits, pension rights, apple and pear stabilisation schemes, and even in respect of the recent referendums- in respect of mundane and parochial questions, if I may call them that, with which some of us feel we may want to be associated in the performance of our public duties, surely in the interests of humanity and in the interests of understanding our responsibilities as citizens to the people of Timor we can exercise that same independence. 
I have alluded on a previous occasion to the contribution made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. In my view, he elevated to the position of a major principle the proposition that we should be more concerned with our future relations with Indonesia than with the tragic events of East Timor. I suggested to him then, and I suggest to the Senate now, that that view was immoral and illogical in the light of the political experiences that have occurred in this century with respect to international crisis and so on. 
Of course, honourable senators know that from time to time I have pushed a fairly determined line on the Timor question. But I make no charges with respect to the establishment of this Committee. I indict no-one. I believe that everyone has acted in some way or other with the best of intentions with regard to this issue but perhaps they have acted wrongly. I suggest that that is what has happened. Even  Mr Malik  has accepted the figure of something in excess of 60 000 people having been killed in the 18 months since the Indonesian forces marched into Dili. That being so, surely we can look to the responsibility that we have towards these people. 
I have from time to time criticised the Department of Foreign Affairs. I think I am entitled to criticise it, because, when  Mr Hawke  went to Jakarta on the issue of the journalists who were killed, he was able to bring back to this country the personal papers and documents which previously were allegedly not available. That seems to me to indicate some dereliction of duty on the part of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The interesting fact I bring to the notice of the Senate is that included in the personal effects which he was able to bring back was a documentary film made by Greg Shackleton, one of the journalists, the night before he died. I find it almost unbelievable that such documentation could have been returned to Australia with the effects of those people who were killed at Balibo at the time of" the invasion. 
In conclusion I read from the transcript of the commentary made on that documentary film which I have seen. The film was available for viewing by members of the Parliament but, unfortunately, not many members availed themselves of the opportunity to do so. Any member of Parliament who wants to see the film can do so and hear the words of Greg Shackleton. The transcript of the commentary has been headed by those who composed the introduction and the conclusion: 'Last Message from Australian journalist in Portuguese Timor, Greg Shackleton'. This is what Greg Shackleton said on the night before he died: 
In pulling back to Maliana they have been told that Indonesian soldiers are heading this way up the road from Batugade- at any rate we look like being the last people left in the town and will make a decision very shortly on whether we should pull back. In the meantime we have daubed our house with the words 'Australia' in red and the Australian flag on the house where we spent the night. We are hoping it will afford us some protection. 
Something happened last night that moved us very' deeply. It was so far outside our experience as Australians and so  intricably  woven with this place that we still find it very difficult to convey to you in Australia in your living rooms but we will try. 
We were brought to this tiny native village from Maliana because we were told that Maliana was not safe at night. When we arrived the second in charge who speaks very little English came to us in a halting but urgent way, said the commander wanted to speak to us and then for the next hour sitting on woven mats under a thatched roof in a hut with no walls and were the target of a barrage of questions from men who know they may die tomorrow: And cannot understand why the rest of the world does not care. Why they ask, are the Indonesians invading us. Why they ask if the Indonesians believe that Fretilin is communist do they not send a delegation to Dili to find out. Why they ask are the Australians not helping us. When the Japanese invaded they did help us. Why they ask are the Portuguese not helping us. We are still a Portuguese colony. Who they ask will pay for the terrible damage to our homes. My main answer was that Australia would not send forces here. That is impossible. However I said we could ask for Australia to raise this matter at the United Nations. That was possible. 
At that the second in charge rose to his feet exclaimed  camarada  journalist shook my hand, the rest shook my hand and we were applauded because we are Australians. That is all they want- for the United Nations to care about what is happening here. The emotion here last night was so strong that we all three of us felt we should be able to reach out to the warm night air and touch it. 
That concludes the transcript of the commentary that Greg Shackleton made the night before he died. Surely in terms of that moving appeal there is an obligation and a responsibility for us at least to try to remedy and to make up for something of the tragedy that has taken place in Timor. Honourable senators can do just that by seeking to establish a committee- a select committee, if we like- in the form in which I have moved or in the form suggested by the amendment moved by  Senator Missen,  supported by  Senator Bonner.  Let us not let the people of Timor down. Let us respond to all of the information, to all of the evidence and to all of the appeals which suggest that we do have an obligation to those people. 
Question put: 
That thc words proposed to be left out  (Senator Missen'* amendment)  be left out. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. What information has the Government received concerning the intrusion of Indonesian armed forces into Papua New Guinea and the reported death of a Papua New Guinean citizen? Is the Government considering reports of increasing civil disturbances within West Irian? Does the Minister agree that such disturbances are of vital concern not only to Papua New Guinea but also to Australia? Can the Minister say whether there are any Australian personnel in the border region and whether they have been given any advice or instruction? Does the Government intend to express concern to the governments involved in the disturbances? 
The Senate is debating the Housing Loans Insurance Amendment Bill 1977 which originates from the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965 and the proposed amendments which the Government has had endorsed by the House of Representatives and for which it seeks the support of the Senate. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill although it is critical of two of the three fundamental amendments to which the Senate is asked to give consideration. Whilst commending the Government for extending the categories of loans which may be insured by the Corporation, the Opposition nevertheless con.dems the Government for inhibiting the Corporation in other ways. It does so, firstly, by reducing the reserves of the Corporation by $4.5m, which will be paid now into Consolidated Revenue and, secondly, by needlessly making the Corporation pay income tax and territorial duties and charges. 
It has been said that the original legislation of 1965, some 12 years ago, was an initiative taken by the Federal Government which has proved, in the passage of time, to be a very important innovative piece of legislation. At the time there was no competition from private enterprise. In other words, there was no other organisation or instrumentality that was offering the service that was supplied by the Housing Loans Insurance Act of 1965. The establishment of the Corporation offered a service to the community as a whole because the private sector had shown at that stage no interest in the proposal or in the facility. As housing was an important social problem- it will remain so for many years- it was correct that the Government took the stand that it did, particularly so because the service which was offered in the original Act was paid for by the user at no expense to revenue. So we have established a corporation which stands on its own 2 feet. 
The very success of the Corporation since is began is evidenced by the fact that over the years it has built up reserves in excess of $ 1 2m whilst at the same time it has been able to reduce premiums paid by mortgagors. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Affairs  (Mr Newman)  acknowledged this record in his second reading speech by stating that the premium payable is amongst the lowest in the world. We have a must unusual situation by conservative standards insofar as a government instrumentality that was innovative and without competition from the private sector was a success story. Just because it has been a success story we now find that the Government is putting this amendment before the Parliament and seeking to restrict the Corporation somewhat by putting it in competition with the private sector that has subsequently come into this field. In the House of Representatives my colleague,  Mr Uren,  moved an amendment which stated: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Government by reducing the present and future capital available to the Corporation has ignored the opportunities available to it to influence the policies of lending institutions in the housing and land fields.' 
I think that that is where our criticism perhaps is at its sharpest point. The Corporation has shown itself to be successful and to be more than competitive. In a period in which there are problems of raising finance to cover mortgages in the housing area we should be taking no steps that would restrict the right of this very successful public corporation. 
The Opposition is concerned that the policies of lending institutions in the housing and land fields do not take into consideration the needs of the lower and middle income earners. We are all aware of the fact that in the last decade or so a very constricting situation has been developing with regard to home ownership and that lower and middle income earners are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain adequate housing at a cost which does not place them in an ecomonic strait-jacket. It is true that the Bill before us does not deal directly with any instrument which is able to change lending policies of institutions but nevertheless the mere presence of this organisation in the field acts as a stimulator and in fact a regulator to the private organisations. The Corporation, however, can remove the objections that these lending institutions may have to provide finance on a more flexible mortgage basis. Put another way, the existing lending institutions are unlikely to make funds available to people on a basis which will materially assist them in obtaining housing if guarantees are not provided. The Corporation therefore should be given every encouragement to provide these guarantees and the funds to carry out such policy. 
We are living in a period of flexible mortgages such as short repayment mortgages, mortgages carried to a constant proportion of income, capital induced mortgages, deferred repayment mortgages and shorter term mortgages based on household income. We should be able to extend these mortgages if there is a drop in household income. This is particularly necessary in a period when young married couples need assistance as borrowers to obtain housing needs. These types of flexible mortgages would particularly assist people who earn up to 1 35 per cent of average weekly earnings. That constitutes something like $250 a week. Honourable senators are well aware that a great number of people can be placed in that category. Under present conditions these people find it increasingly difficult to cross the home ownership income threshold. 
Economic conditions are such that governments have to recognise that we have reached that point in the current difficulties in Australia where it is very difficult for funds to be provided and for a borrower to be able to meet his commitment. I have been told for example that thousands of homes which were built in the last 6 to 10 months were built by people in the speculative building field who believed the Government when it said that business confidence would return as a result of the change in government. These people were told in various Press comments by  Mr Newman  and other spokesmen for the Government that there would be an improved economic climate in this country. Many people involved in the speculative provision of homes went out in that period and began to build considerable numbers of homes for sale in the market. Because of the very constrictions in the lending market due to the current economic climate, those people who invested their capital with a view to being able to take advantage of the more favourable labour position and the availability of materials and resources generally now find it difficult to sell those homes. 
Even as late as a few weeks ago a representative of the Master Builders Association in Canberra said that we have to recognise that we are still living in a depressed market state. The Government has to recognise that the legitimate rights of citizens should be placed on the same footing as the professed concern of lending institutions to maintain cash flows, quick returns and secure loans if they are interested in coming into the home ownership area. However, the Government's paranoia to support the private sector has imposed, by way of the amendments which the Senate is now considering, upon this Corporation a reduction of its reserves. I think it has to be said that it is not anticipated that the Corporation will be stymied as a result. Its competitive record, as I have indicated, is impeccable. Despite the changes that have come into this area in the last 12 years, the Corporation still accounts for some 60 per cent of the market for this type of insurance in Australia. The balance is in the hands of the Mortgage Guaranty and Insurance Corporation of America- a large foreign owned and controlled company-to the extent of some 25 per cent and the Australian Mortgage Insurance Corporation which has approximately 15 per cent of the market. I put it to the Government that there was no point in permitting that American company to come into the Australian market when a government instrumentality was already providing an adequate service on the initiative of the Liberal and Country Party Government in 1 965. As the record subsequently shows, there has been absolutely no advantage to home owners, nor has there been any advantage to the Government, in having so-called competition in this area. 
The record shows- I do not think it can be argued otherwise by Government speakers- that the Corporation provides the best possible service. That is why it has been able, despite the competition of the foreign company and the newly established company in Australia, to maintain 60 per cent of the market. It should be of concern to all who have followed the acute problems of housing in this country that less funds, not more funds, should be made available directly or indirectly to the industry. It is true that about a week ago the Australian Government took certain steps in this area. I think I heard on the news, although I was not able to read it anywhere in the newspapers, that something like $40m has been released to the building industry to try to inject some confidence-cum-stimulation. Nevertheless it is clear that the housing industry today does not have the level of finance needed to maintain production and ensure that the housing needs of people are satisfied within their financial reach. In a country in which nine out of ten could have expected to own their own home in 1967, it has been estimated a short 10 years later that only two out of ten can hope now to achieve that objective. I am sure other Government senators would be as concerned as are Opposition senators about that objective being reduced because of the whole of the circumstances which honourable senators have debated here for so long. 
We always get these interjections. It is claimed that a Labor Government that was in office for a mere 3 years is responsible for all the ills that have befallen Australia. According to some people there were no problems before 1972 and that every problem we have arose between 1972 and 1975. That is simplistic and quite out of character with the type of thinking that ought to be developed in looking at this problem of housing. Even when the Australian Labor Party came into Government in November 1972 the facts are that the highest number of people in the history of Australia required public housing. Because we recognised this we took steps to correct the situation and we channelled the largest amounts of funds ever into the housing sector through the Housing Corporation to the States. We adopted a housing policy aimed at reducing house prices and providing welfare housing for more Australians. Surely it cannot be argued that the high cost of land, which is a component of housing costs, can be attributed in any way to the brief 3 years of a Federal Labor Government. The responsibility for providing a stock of land for housing rests with the States. The position is not made much better by a Liberal Government or a Labor Government. We know that it is a product of a market situation. The Housing Corporation was designed to overcome the backlag that had accumulated in housing. Steps were taken to provide housing for that section of people who did not qualify for public housing and could not afford loan repayments because of their financial means. One of the first things the Fraser Government did was to disband the Housing Corporation when it won office in December 1 975. 
Whilst the Liberal and National Country parties have instituted a variety of substitute schemes aimed at assisting Australians to obtain home ownership it cannot be denied that the result has been unsatisfactory because there has been a deepening of the recession in the housing and building industry. No sweet rhetoric by Housing Ministers or Ministers for Construction will change those basic facts or that basic problem. I suggest that those who think otherwise should go into the field and discuss the matter with those builders who are endeavouring to sell the great stock of homes that is available in all the capital cities of Australia. Young couples today are confronted with fewer home ownership possibilities and many of them are paying up to 80 per cent of their total weekly income, that is the income of husband and wife, to obtain housing. One never hears about this from the moralists who keep talking about the family unit, the breakup of the nuclear family or the problems of zero population growth. One never hears the fundamental approach that needs to be taken in this area of trying to establish what are the economic factors that force that sort of situation and make a double income the basic means of obtaining a house or other accommodation. 
The Labor Party, when it was in office, was criticised for distortions in house prices that took place during its term of office, particularly in the capital cities of Sydney and Melbourne. It must be emphasised that in no way could these distortions be attributed to Australian Government policy. Recent reports in the  Australian Financial Review  and other newspapers have pointed out who were the real culprits of the property boom. It had nothing to do with the Federal Labour Government. The boom raised the price of housing well beyond the reach of the majority of Australians. In the late 1960s and early 1970s large companies pumped into the property market huge sums of money which pushed up prices. The volume of money used is indicated by the subsequent enforced write-down of assets of companies. I want to refer to a small number of these which contributed towards this problem. It was not the mere election of a Labor Government. The Abbey group has had some $ 140m in property investment the subject of a write-down. IAC (Holdings) Ltd, the biggest property development house, has had to reconsider the value of its capital assets, and calculations made indicate that the value should be reduced by some $60m. The actual write-off of property over 2 years has been $2 1 .4m. Parkes Development Pty Ltd was a property developer which comprised some 70 companies. It has gone into liquidation. The current value of assets is expected to be far below the book value of $100m. These companies were well established and did a great deal of land development, housing development and speculative development. Commercial and General Acceptance, commonly known as CAGA, has has some $24m in property investment the subject of a write-down. FNCB- Waltons Corporation Ltd has written off some $6m from its property loans since 27 January this year. This is only the tip of the iceberg of the problems facing Waltons as the sum represents a mere 10 per cent of its problem loans. 
Therefore the need is apparent to place housing beyond the manipulation of companies which because of their concentrated strength and purchasing power are able to exploit the market. It is ludicrous and totally erroneous to believe that this problem accrued just because there was a change in government in one State or in the national arena. The acceleration of prices for homes, home units and land which occurred during the boom ultimately was to the detriment of home owners. We are talking about a period of approximately 20 years when the big land boom took place, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne. It is poetic justice that so many of the large developers themselves have been caught up in the same exploitative trap as they set for others. Needless to say, the Australian public suffers more than these large corporations, because the losses have to be paid for by somebody. They are paid for by the community not only in the losses that are sustained but also in the lack of confidence that is created in those people who might otherwise want to invest in the activities of those corporations. Contrary to the views expressed by  Mr McLeay,  the Minister for Construction, the recession in the building industry has not ended. The Government has not solved the housing problem, and by not releasing adequate money has deepened the recession in the industry. 
We regret that the Government has seen fit to amend this piece of legislation because it was the Government that introduced it in 1965. The Opposition cannot understand why the legislation should now be bent to accommodate the private sector. The argument that there should be selective stimulation for the housing industry in New South Wales remains unanswered. The number of new houses commenced in New South Wales in the December quarter fell by 25 per cent. I am sure that no honourable senator will suggest that this is because  Mr Wran  was elected Premier on 1 May 1976. After 18 months of Wran Government the private sector has not provided adequate stimulation for the housing needs in New South Wales. While the position of other States is perhaps marginally better the prospects in New South Wales are that there will be no immediate improvement. Only Federal Government initiative of the type responsible for this legislation being introduced in 1965, will cause some improvement in the general building industry in this country. 
The sooner we put aside party political differences that so often emanate when in the Senate we discuss the housing problems the sooner we look at the problem as a general problem and not as a political problem and the sooner we provide adequate finance to stimulate the building industry the sooner we will have the sort of response that is necessary to return to the position where nine out of ten Australians who want to own their own home will have the opportunity to do so. In conclusion, the Opposition does not propose to oppose this Bill although we are critical of the constrictions and restrictions that are to be placed on this very important Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1977, which provides for the raising of $3m in loan moneys for war service land settlement in 3 States- Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. It is interesting to note that the Queensland Government withdrew from this scheme in 1950 and that the agreement as it covers the States of New South Wales and Victoria is limited in another way to financing certain operational losses. This particular legislation and the sum of money that is involved are required to fulfil the obligations of the Australian Government under the terms of the agreement with the State governments of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania entered into at the end of the war to provide the opportunity of returned soldier settlers to go onto the land. Under the terms of the agreement with these 3 States the Commonwealth undertook to provide the working capital at  33A  per cent interest for the soldier settlers to cover current working expenses, the purchase of stock, and capital funds for replacement of plant as part of the settler's normal operation of the property. It is interesting that this particular type of war settlement was made available to soldier settlers who had no capital of their own; so it did have a specific purpose to fulfil. 
Each couple of years or so the Parliament is presented with a Bill asking for the approval of such funds. I can recall the occasion in 1972 when an honourable senator opposite,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  on behalf of the then LiberalCountry Party Government, asked for approval for the sum of $6.5m for the scheme. In his contribution to the debate he outlined the difficulties faced by soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. He indicated that the problems they faced were the subject of investigation by the Department of Primary Industry in conjunction with the States. 
At that time he attributed most of the difficulties to the specific problems related to the unique environment of Kangaroo Island which, it appears from all the evidence available, militates against farming by normal procedures. I am sure the honourable senator would agree that that was the way in which he presented the argument on that occasion. He expressed the pious hope that research would solve the production problems faced by farmers on the island and ignored the longer term implications already coming to light about the loss of overseas markets. 
I mention this only to highlight the hypocrisy and inconsistency not of the responsible Minister at that time,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  but of the present Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair  in his speech in reply to the 1975 Bill which was put before the Parliament by the Labor Government, and in his second reading speech to the Bill presently under consideration. I should like to remind the Senate of  Mr Sinclair's  contribution to the debate in 1975. At page 1685 of House of Representatives  Hansard  for 16 April 1975,  Mr Sinclair  is reported as having stated: 
I do believe that in both mendicant and principal States, the continued position of soldier settlers in Australia is a complete condemnation of those who would sit in government. 
Later, on page 1686, he is recorded to have stated: 
I see it as most regrettable that in this very brief second reading speech and in a Bill which allocates $4m but no more, no reference has been made to what is an acute problem of the maintenance of the viable operations of the many soldier settlers throughout Australia. 

 Mr Sinclair ignored the specific problems confronting soldier settlers as outlined 3 years earlier by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  a member of his own Party. By 1977  Mr Sinclair  seems to be no longer concerned about the problems of soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. He stated in his equally brief second reading speech to the Bill presently before this chamber, as recorded on page 1 6 1 6 of House of Representatives  Hansard foi 5 M&amp;y  1977: 
. much publicity has been given to the plight of a small number of settlers on Kangaroo Island who are in financial difficulties and who are non-viable. However, they are the exception. 
That was the end of  Mr Sinclair's  contribution at that stage. I might add that only $3m is allocated in this legislation, no doubt because there are fewer soldier settler requirements than were in 1 975 or, prior to that, in 1 972. 
The only breakdown of how the money is to be allocated is made in broad terms. South Australia is to obtain half of this allocation, 
Western Australia about one-third and Tasmania the balance, and a small sum of S 10,000 which may be required to meet costs in relation to a drainage study which is in progress at Loxton in South Australia. So South Australia will do very well out of this piece of legislation. Of course, that Loxton study received a portion of the allocation made in 1972 and 1975. So the problem is still with us after all those years. Quite clearly the Minister has not provided enough information on this particular expenditure or for expenditure under the scheme. It is no excuse to claim that the liability is an ongoing liability to the States concerned and the program as administered by the States. The duty of the Government is to present to the Parliament an adequate report from which it can be determined what progress has occurred, what improvements can be made to the scheme with the agreement of the States and what are the future prospects for soldier settlers. 
When in Opposition the present Minister called for the tabling of all departmental reports and recommendations covering the scheme. Now, as a Minister and after he has been in office 18 months, the Parliament is no wiser as to whether reports or recommendations even exist. If the scheme is under constant review, the Parliament is entitled to be informed of any recommendations which may be made or which are likely to be made to improve the operation of the scheme, or, more importantly, to assist the soldier settlers. I remind the Senate of the statement made by the same  Mr Sinclair  in 1975 when in Opposition. He said: 
Government should provide further assistance to soldier settlers, but more specifically, we think that the whole of the continuing function and operation of soldier settler schemes around Australia should be reviewed. 
That is good thinking, good advice and it may be good criticism. But one would have expected, in the presentation of this legislation for consideration of the Parliament, that the Minister for Primary Industry would have applied that advice to himself, to his own Department and to his own Government. Today, as I have indicated, $3m is allocated- Sim less than in 1975. Yet there is no report of any review. Just as  Mr Sinclair  claimed in 1975, we still do not know what is happening in soldier settlement schemes. I do not wish my comments to be misinterpreted as being in any way against the Commonwealth continuing to be involved in soldier settlement schemes. Legally and morally the Commonwealth Government is bound to its agreement. It is also bound to ensure that the recipients receive the best possible assistance in the allocation of funds. If there is any need for this assistance to be continued, it is because of the parlous state of rural industry in Australia. The Parliament also is entitled to be informed on the maintenance and drainage problems at Loxton. No report has been forthcoming in that respect. 
I should like to conclude with a few comments on the failure of the Government to assist farmers. More than once in debates in the last year I have said that the Opposition is prepared to consider favourably any legislation that the Government will bring before the Parliament that would take fundamental steps to improve the lot of rural producers. Of course, evidence is increasingly put before us about the real drop in farm income. It is dropping year by year. More farmers have been forced off the land or forced to live in near poverty conditions. One would imagine that we would be concerned about the viability of those in the soldier settlement scheme who took up the grants. In this particular type of legislation, where there was no capital requirement for the original soldier settlers, it is clear that they would be the persons more likely to be affected in the current run-down in agriculture than those who otherwise would have had some financial resources when they went on the land. In those circumstances, of course, we have to raise a critical note that the legislation does not do any more than carry forward one of the existing schemes. It will not have the opposition of the Labour Party because it does that. In fact, we concede that it continues a program which is needed but we do ask that the Government give consideration to presenting the necessary reports so that we can have a fundamental review of the problems associated with soldier settlement. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, without notice, on 24 May 1977: 
I refer to the announcement by  Mr Harders,  Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, concerning the transfer of an officer who gave advice in his own free time to a member of Parliament. Did the Attorney-General authorise  Mr Harders  to make this statement? On what grounds is it considered that the officer placed himself in conflict with his departmental duties? Does the Minister consider that  Mr Harders'  action infringes on the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111? Will the Minister clarify the ambit of duty of departmental officers as it relates to their own time and will he indicate the guidelines which exist for public servants? Does  Mr Harders  decision mean that public servants cannot engage in political activities outside their normal working hours? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What criteria is used to award assisted passage to migrants. 
For the years 1975-76 and 1976-77, how many assisted passages were granted to migrants from the United States of America, Greece, Italy, Lebanon, Cyprus, Malta, the United Kingdom, India, Vietnam and Indonesia. 
What percentage of the total number of migrants arriving from the abovementioned countries received Australian Government assisted passages. (2)and(3)- 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of non-State tertiary institutions in the main, business colleges, is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government technical education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to an unnecessary worsening of the current employment situation for school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations. I ask: Does the Government take seriously the threats by the Prime Minister of Singapore,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew, that the peace and security of South East Asia will be threatened unless Australia reviews its quota policies on imported goods from Singapore and the other countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations? 
I present the following petition from 70 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue hardship as inmates of private nursing homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the private nursing homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make sure that subsidies paid to private nursing homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the private nursing home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to.be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a means test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As this petition is identical in wording to one already presented, I do not propose to have it read. 
Petition received. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Since he has conceded that it is rather difficult for him to give concise answers concerning some of the more fundamental principles contained in the 
Budget Speech, I think he must concede also how difficult it is for members of the Opposition and the general public to understand and comprehend some of the principles that have been established. Will the Minister, in conceding that point, ascertain from the Treasurer or any other Minister who might understand what is encompassed in the Budget Speech, whether the full indexation arrangements that began on 1 July last year, plus the benefits that are alleged to accrue under the new system that establishes three new tax categories, will apply after 1 July 1 978? 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To (he Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens  of  the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Recognise the dangers to the health of all Australians and future generations of mankind by the mining, processing and use of uranium whether for peaceful or destructive purposes. 
Take steps to defer any decisions in relation to the mining of uranium for a period of five years during which time adequate community discussion can occur on all the issues involved in the arguments for or against such mining. 
Ensure that no foreign country ever 'dumps' its radioactive waste materials in our country. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question addressed to  Senator Durack,  the Acting Attorney-General, has some relevance to the answer he gave to  Senator Young  a few minutes ago. Is the Minister aware of the resignation of Miss Janet Langridge from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in June 1977? Is the Minister aware that this person claimed in a statutory declaration that she was told by her ASIO supervisor not to show her $600 per month income in her application form to join a tertiary institution? Does the Government condone the principle that public servants can give false advice and information when filling in application forms? Following on from the answer he just gave to  Senator Young,  the Minister might ask the Attorney-General to discuss with the Director-General of ASIO whether an instruction can be given to the effect that all public servants be asked to comply with the law on all occasions. 
-I wish to be associated for a number of reasons with the condolence motion that has been moved by the Government and supported by the Opposition. I think that Rex Connor can be properly described as one of the most significant politicians this country has produced. I have lost a close personal friend of some 30 years standing. My party and I have lost a political colleague of immense stature. I think, perhaps more importantly, the people of the South Coast of New South Wales have lost one of the most able representatives they have had in the national 
Parliament. If one spoke to the people of Wollongong- irrespective of their political points of view- one would find an acceptance of the role that Rex had played in the development of that city and the way in which he had represented the diversity of his electorate in politics. I think that he was unique because he was one of the few men- I cannot readily recall any women qualifying for this distinction- who had served in the three arms of government. He served with distinction in each of those areas. Not many people are able to record that sort of achievement. 
The period he spent in the State Parliament which has been referred to was a very interesting period in his development because- all things being equal and if he had stayed in the New South Wales Parliament- he would have changed the historical development in the New South Wales political arena. Undoubtedly he had the capacity and the qualities that would have put him into the premiership. I have heard many of his colleagues refer to the fact that in the 1950s when the Labor Party was so badly divided over factionalism in New South Wales and Rex, with many people including myself, was associated with one particular point of view, many people felt that if he had not had the courage of his convictions and if he had not accepted that he had a responsibility to espouse those convictions he would have been considered for the position of leader of the State Parliamentary Labor Party. 
Like another one of his colleagues, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  he found that the state of politics in the arena in which he was then working in New South Wales was such that he left that arena and came to the national Parliament. Of course, in a few short years- within a decade- he had made his mark by being elected to the shadow Ministry and, ultimately, to the Ministry. A great deal has been said about his capacity in that area. What has to be said in paying tribute to Rex is that he had a vision about Australia, a tremendous faith in Australia and a great belief that Australia could manage its affairs so that it could profit from the immense riches that exist in this country. So he became associated with endeavours to ensure that the Australian people, inheriting a rich continent, should have the right to benefit not only from the exploitation of those riches but also from the wealth that would flow from that exploitation. He gained that view as a result of the mining boom of the 1 960s. 
He lived to play a significant part in changing the policy of the Australian Government. I think some tribute to him is best expressed by referring to the fact that even  Mr Anthony,  whose views may be said to be poles apart from the views that  Mr Connor  expressed when he was Minister, finally agreed with many attitudes which had been stated and many policies which had been put into effect in the period in which Rex was a Minister of the Crown. 
It is a matter of regret that his illness finally overtook him. He never lost faith in the fact that sooner or later the Australian people would come round to his point of view. He fought for that point of view within the party room and at the last Federal Conference of our party which he attended at Terrigal in New South Wales where he made the important distinction that our natural resources should be developed by the public sector so that the tremendous benefits from such development would flow directly back to the Australian people. 
There is no doubt that his loss is a great one to his party, to many of us personally and to the nation. He was associated with the development of Wollongong as a city. When he went there it was a provincial town- I do not think the people of Wollongong would object to that description. When he left it yesterday it was a very strong and thriving big city of New South Wales. He has left his mark in that development, as was pointed out by those who have spoken today. I would bc remiss if I did not pay tribute to Rex Connor as a person and a politician who has spent all his life serving his fellow man. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I appreciate the dilemma in which the Minister finds himself but I want to refer particularly to the answer that he gave in detail today to the original questions that were asked last week and the supplementary question that was asked today by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer to the Treasurer's statement at page 18 of the Budget Speech in which he states that the new tax system will provide very substantial benefits to taxpayers at all income levels'. I specifically ask this question because I have done my homework and I have come up with answers in respect of which I sought confirmation from the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library. Is it not true that people receiving incomes between $6,371 and $8,096 inclusive are actually worse off under the proposed new system than under the old system with full indexation at 12 per cent? I refer particularly to what the Minister said today, that is, that full indexation would apply in 1977 and 1978. In the circumstances will the Minister request the Treasurer to provide to the Parliament detailed tables comparing the two systems with the tax rates indexed at the inflation rates of 10 per cent, 12 per cent, 13 per cent and 14 per cent so that we can actually see the sort of information that will give us an opportunity to interpret the Budget. 
I present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue hardship as inmates of Private Nursing Homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the Private N ursing Homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to alford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to- 
Make sure that subsidies paid to Private Nursing Homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the Private Nursing Home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a Means Test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that on a number of occasions since the Budget was brought down the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have made assertions dealing with the amount of revenue which the Government will forgo in 1978-79? In a statement put down by the Minister last night in answer to a question from  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister once again asserted that the reforms will reduce the 1978-79 revenue by $l,857m. I ask: As the Government is so precise in its estimate of the revenue to be forgone in 1978-79, will the Minister provide to the Senate the assumptions upon which the figure is based and, in particular, the levels of employment, the levels of real wages and the rate of inflation? 
In supporting the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  I think it must be said that the 1977-78 Lynch Budget, like its predecessor of last year, turns its back on the needs of Australia and most Australians. It purports to represent the basic economic interests of the Australian people, but the Opposition believes that it has more political importance than economic importance. It believes that this Budget is going in the wrong direction and is, in fact, based on a totally erroneous philosophy. I think it must be said that the morning after the Budget was presented most of the reaction seemed to be favourable, from the Government's point of view. The media in general expressed some belief that it would generate business confidence and reactivate the Australian economy. But as the news filtered through, as journalists, those in the media, most economists and others in various sectors of the Australian economy began to look more closely at the Budget, they reached the position which the Opposition reached on the following days and which it has raised in Question Time, that is, that the Budget is one of complete and utter confusion. Today is the first time in the Senate that a Government  speaker  has sought to explain away some of the basic features of the Budget. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  asked: 'What sort of reaction is the Government to expect from the Opposition?' I do not think there is any doubt that the Opposition, from the inception of the Budget, saw it as it really is- a Budget that confirms the Government's determination to redistribute income away from the majority of Australians in favour of the minority, the higher income groups. 
When we see editorials and comments by economists, including even the Government's own advisers- I refer particularly to Professor Hogan- and statements from business leaders and farm leaders, all coming to a similar conclusion, I think we have to say that this Budget represents a Judas kiss to economic recovery. The basic Budget strategy places all its faith on economic recovery by the private sector. Nowhere in the Western world has the private sector in any way taken up the challenge and responded in a way that would satisfy the views of conservative economists, or for that matter, conservative governments. I am attracted to a statement that was made by a British economist who was in Australia recently, Stuart Holland. He said: 
In practice the private sector is failing the nation on a massive scale - 
He was talking about the United Kingdom-  and represents a dead weight on the backs of working-class people, who, through taxation, subsidise distributed private sector profits. 
So when we look at the Budget in its totality, we see those who will gain most from it. They will certainly be the petrol companies. They will certainly be the corporate private sector and the private entrepreneur. They will certainly be the politicians but they will certainly not be those groups within the community that require the sort of stimulus to bring about the basic strategy of the 1976 Budget, which was to lead us towards an economic recovery based on consumerism and investment. In his Budget Speech that year the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  said that the basic philosophy was that individuals and businesses should have more to say in spending decisions which concern them and governments have less. At the same time the Budget proposals were intended to strengthen confidence among consumers and investors and thereby advance the recovery of the economy. 
This year's Budget shows the Government's determination not to intervene on behalf of the Australian people in the economic processes which shape the direction of the Australian economy. By reneging on its duty the Government puts beyond doubt that Australia will continue on Fraser's predetermined path of 1976. That is a path of increased unemployment and no government senator or member can say otherwise. It is a path of high inflation- perhaps a difference of one per cent or two per cent. It is a path of below economic activity, reduced Australian equity in Australia's mineral wealth, reduced assistance in the rural sector and the further integration of the Australian economy into the world economy to satisfy the profit dictates of the major transnational corporations and foreign capital investment. The objective of this Budget, as with other economic measures and decisions outside the Budget, is to redistribute income away from the majority of Australians and to redistribute profits out of Australia. The mammoth devaluation of November 1976, perhaps more than the Budget of 1976, served this implicit objective. This 1977 Budget continues the process. 
The Budget has been condemned far and wide for its lack of clarity, its lack of detail and the inability of Ministers in this place to explain or defend it in any way at question time. The Government has attempted to conceal the true impact of the changes to the tax scales. It must surely be conceded that confusion reigns throughout Australia in regard to the tax scales as newspaper after newspaper seeks to present tax scales given out by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer whose statements are contradictory. The Budget seeks to conceal that the Government has gone back on its commitment to full tax indexation. The Treasurer states that everyone will be better off. In his own Budget Speech, he said that the much improved and simplified tax system will provide very substantial benefits to taxpayers at all income levels. A closer analysis exposes the complete dishonesty of this statement. If the Fraser Government had stuck to its commitment of full indexation of the tax scales and rebates, all taxpayers earning $11,500 and below would have been better off under this system or had substantially the same income. The new Lynch scheme for 1978 gives substantial benefits to those taxpayers earning $ 1 1 ,500 and above, to the top 20 per cent of taxpayers. Therefore this surely cannot be said to be a Budget that will lead towards the sort of economic recovery, the consumer-led recovery, which the Prime Minister and his Ministers promised in 1975-76 and 1977. 
One of the other features of this Budget is that it is designed to reduce real wages, to encourage a reduction in purchasing power and to increase the profitability in the private sector. It is interesting that  Mr Lynch,  in his Budget Speech of last year, suggested that when profits were back to somewhere around 15 per cent of the gross domestic product it would be an historical level that should bring about economic recovery. Everybody knows that that level has been reached. Yet in the reaching of that level there has been no sustained recovery and there cannot be. When the Treasury documents are studied it is shown that some 55 per cent of all profits made by the corporate sector of Australia, leave this country to satisfy the shareholding interests of parent companies. So when we put emphasis on profitability as against real wages we negate the principle of a consumer-led recovery and we strengthen that section of finance which is leaving the country to satisfy parent companies overseas. 
As I said earlier, the 20 per cent of taxpayers in the middle or lower income bracket will be worse off and the 20 per cent of the taxpayers in the top section will be better off. This fact alone shows that the Budget cannot possibly lead to any economic recovery. Those most able to pay obtain greater benefits from those least able to pay under the new system. If the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  is genuine in her belief that there is a need for more production, I remind her that there is no point in having more production unless the community has sufficient funds to purchase that increased production. Is not our problem in the car industry today that we have more cars produced than we can sell? Of course, that runs right through the whole of the Australian economy. Unless steps are taken to increase considerably the amount of money available to people who purchase goods produced in this country, there is no way that investments will increase. From the point of view of increasing production techniques, there is no way that the goods that would be produced in greater quantities could be purchased by the Australian community. 
Returning to the tax scales, a person on $5,000 benefits by $1.32 a week. Even though that is an improvement on the existing rates scale, surely the Government does not believe that that will have any measurable impact on the living standards of the Australian people when today it has been announced that in the month of July, for example, food prices in this country increased by one per cent throughout Australia. Surely the Government cannot be serious when it suggests that a person getting such a small benefit will be able to assist in the consumer-led recovery. A person earning $ 15,000 benefits by $5.83 a week. A person on $50,000 benefits by $52.2 1 a week. The tax rate for persons with incomes above $32,000 has been reduced from 65c in the dollar to 60c in the dollar. This shows the regressive nature of the Budget and the tax scales. People on incomes of between $6,000 and $8,000 will be paying more tax. I hope that I will have the opportunity to show that this group which now encompasses about 1,400,000 taxpayersaccording to a schedule that has been prepared by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library- in fact will be paying more tax under these tax scales. 
The Treasurer misled the Parliament and the Australian people in his Budget Speech when he said that all people will obtain benefits. He cannot claim ignorance of the effect of the changes. 
He misled his own party. He misled the Parliament. He misled the Australian people. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- a socalled independent commission upon which the Government continues to heap blame for its own failed economic policies- has openly rebuked the Treasurer and the Government for another false statement. In his infamous speech,  Mr Lynch  had this to say about real wages: 
There can be no doubt that, had the wage determination processes permitted real wages to decline in 1976-77, recovery would have been stronger and unemployment less. 
Instead, so far from having declined, as has been repeatedly asserted by our political opponents, real wages were actually higher at June 1 977 than a year earlier. 

 Sir John Moore and his fellow commissioners have produced figures which directly contradict this statement. The consumer price index rose by 13.4 per cent between June 1976 and June 1977, while average weekly earnings over the period rose by only 10.8 per cent. There has to be a margin. There has to be an acceptance that real wages in fact declined in that period, and the Commission has so ruled. Yet  Mr Lynch  has the temerity and this Government has the audacity to suggest otherwise, in the face of all the evidence that is freely available from the Treasury, the Library and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
There has been a real wage reduction. There has been a vast increase in the profitability of the major corporations. Yet despite that- that is, a drop in wages and an increase in profitabilitythere has been, instead of a decrease as promised, an increase in unemployment. The Fraser economic strategy has failed and no amount of misleading or false statements can conceal this fact. The Government claims to be reducing the tax liability of wage and salary earners. It has made that assertion several times since the Budget Speech was made. The Minister for Social Security made that assertion again this afternoon. The plain facts are that payasyouearn tax receipts in money terms are up 1 7 per cent from last year. Overall receipts from PA YE tax and tax on individuals as a percentage of total receipts, according to table 1 found at pages 6 and 7 of Budget Paper No. 10, will be approximately 52 per cent. That is a 2 per cent increase on the figure under the last Labor Budget. In the last Labor Budget- that of 1975-76-50 per cent of total tax receipts came from individuals. In this Budget, 52 per cent comes from individuals. 
It is worth having a look at pages 6 and 7 of Budget Paper No. 10 in a little more detail when we have regard to the assertions that have been made by this Government. In the 1967-68 Budget- it was a Liberal Budget- personal income tax, PAYE tax and tax paid by individuals, represented only 27 per cent of Budget income. It is true that in the intervening years the figure rose slightly and in 1973-74 it reached 49 percent. 
-It reached 50 per cent in the following year. I point out to  Senator Young  that in this Government's Budget last year it reached 54 per cent. This year, this Government has dropped it back to 52 per cent, but that is double what the figure was 10 years ago. Yet this Government, its Treasurer and its Prime Minister are trying to convince the Australian people that in fact there has been a reduction in personal taxation. There has not been a reduction in personal taxation. 
I can show this to the Senate by referring to the incidence of PAYE tax per head of population. Under the Hayden Budget of 1975-76, $637.16 was paid by every taxpayer in this country. What is that figure in this Budget? It is $707.02. The overall tax per head of population in Australia last year was $1,532, and this year it is $1,726. There is no question that the Government has tried to hoodwink its own parties and its own supporters. It would do the Parliament good if Government senators analysed the Budget a little more closely and stopped being lickspittles of the leadership of the Government and of their own parties. The Fraser Government, in percentage and actual money terms, is extracting more from the Australian taxpayer than did the last Labor Budget. More importantly, it is extracting more but providing less to the Australian people. It is providing fewer hospitals, fewer schools, and less money for decentralisation programs, roads, sewerage, education, the arts, farmers and people in need. If honourable senators opposite have any doubts about how people see the present Budget, they should note what the rural sector has had to say about it. I could not go to more reputable mouthpieces of country interests than the newspapers  Stock and Land,  the  Land  and  Country Life  and the Australian National Cattlemen's Council. An article in  Stock and Land  states: 
This week 's Federal Budget is the biggest setback so far for the country people's confidence in the Federal Government . . . Those 1 1 farmers among the Federal Government's 26 Ministers will need to throw their hats in the door before they return home to their electorates. 
And so will those Government back benchers from country electorates. 
A special editorial in the  Land is  headed 'Budget is disappointing'. An article written by Alan Goodall in  Country Life  states: 
Nothing to start a rural bank. Nothing to push beef carcass classification. No wheat stabilisation contribution. No equalised petrol prices ... but a petrol rise. The Lynch budget is not a good one for primary producers. 
An editorial in  Country Life- I  am told that Country Life is owned by people who, if they are not members of the National Country Party, support that party- states: 
Primary producers may be forgiven for thinking this week that the Federal Government has forgotten them. 
I do not need to stress what members of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council think, because  Mr Seccombe  distributed a paper to all members of Parliament. In part, it states: 
Cattlemen throughout Australia are entitled to feel completely let down because tonight's Budget gives no recognition of the continuing and desperate plight of the industry. 
I propose to spend part of the rest of the time available to me to speak about the Budget Speech itself. I have gone through the Budget Speech and have found 10 falsehoods or lies. Therefore, I propose to deal with the falsehoods that have been referred to in this Budget Speech. In his Budget Speech, the Treasurer said: 
Unlike our predecessors we believe that taxes have taken too much from the community and that people now want greater charge of their own affairs. 
In point of fact, the Budget income has been increased by 33 per cent in the last two years. I have already indicated the amount by which personal income tax has been increased and there is no point in labouring that. The second misstatement of the Treasurer reads: 
Union leadership bears an equal responsibility; it is the trade union leaders who have to consider the unemployment consequences of their demands for higher pay for those presently in jobs. 
Of course we know it is a common feature of this conservative Government to blame everybody but itself. It blames the workers for not producing enough. It blames the farmers for producing too much when the farmers cannot market their product. It blames the trade union leaders for carrying out their job of protecting the economic interests of their members. Of course last week  Mr Lynch  went on the rampage blaming the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. A newspaper article on the subject stated: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  yesterday blamed the Arbitration Commission for the lack of improvement in unemployment.  Mr Lynch  accused the commission of consistently refusing to face up to the employment consequences of its decisions. 
He ignored the fact that factories in Australia are now operating at only 75 per cent of capacity. 
What manufacturer would want to produce more? What manufacturer would want it suggested to him that he should put in more machines to produce more goods when he has a quarter of his machines not producing to capacity now and when if he has to update his technology or his machines to produce more at cheaper cost he has to invest a considerable sum of money in such new technology. On page 3 of his misleading statement to the Parliament the Treasurer said: 
The burden of Labor's policy failures on the export and import-competing sectors made devaluation inevitable. 
But, because of the determined action by the Government, overall policy was not blown off course and the basic strategy was maintained. 
What did the same Treasurer say in his Budget Speech of the year before? He attacked the Opposition. At page 7 of his Budget Speech last year he said: 
But, whether they know it or not, those who, in the name of reducing unemployment, call for higher Government spending, or bigger deficits, or full wage indexation, or devaluation of the Australian dollar, are calling for highernot lower- unemployment in this country.  The overwhelming weight of evidence is against such courses. 
What happened? It was this Government that took the step to devalue and it was this Government that pledged itself to tax indexation. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was the caretaker Prime Minister in 1975 was reported as follows: 
We will fully index personal income tax for inflation over three years, '  Mr Fraser  said. 
It will support wage indexation. It will make government more honest with your money. ' 
Yet the same Treasurer and the same Prime Minister are on the record as having attacked the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for applying the principles of full indexation, and in this very Budget tax indexation is to be halved for the 1978 financial year, no steps are being taken to index the spouse allowance in respect of the current year, and family allowances have not been indexed either. Yet this is a government that talks about honesty. This is a government that has the temerity to suggest that inproprieties were taking place during the period of the Whitlam Administration. 

 Mr Lynch asserted in the Budget Speech that consumers are spending more. The fact is that household disposable income is down on what it was at the time of the last Budget. It is down from 15 per cent to 13 per cent. We can go on. Time does not permit me to itemise the various lies that appear in the Budget document. 
Perhaps I ought to conclude by mentioning what has been claimed so many times by  Senator Carrick  in this place- a claim that is reported in the Budget document. On page 15  Mr Lynch  talks about the relative generosity of the Australian Government in respect of the States. I searched the documents and compared them with the previous Budget documents and I came to the conclusion that what  Senator Carrick  has been telling us in respect of the benefits flowing from the Commonwealth to the States has been untrue. So I asked the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library to compile some figures. With your permission,  Mr President,  I would like to have them incorporated in  Hansard.  They show that in 1975-76 the Australian Government contributed 38.7 per cent of total Budget outlays to the other two arms of government and that in 1 976-77 the contribution dropped to 37 per cent. In this Budget it has received a measly increase to 37.4 per cent. The contribution has gone up 0.4 per cent. Clearly, in a period in which inflation is still at double figures, the States will not be able to avoid increasing charges for the goods and services they provide at the State level. 
Yes. 
The  table read as follows- 
COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY STATISTICAL SERVICE 
Australian Government Budget Outlays- By Economic Type 

<graphic href="074232197708244_34_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197708244_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

I would like also to submit to the Senate the assertions I have made as a result of my own investigations which I have had confirmed by the Legislative Research Service. It has produced figures which show that people earning $7,000 a year will pay 6 lc a week more and those on $8,000 a year will pay 6c a week more in taxation under the new scheme. I seek permission to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197708244_35_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197708244_36_8.jpg"></graphic>

Pre-February 1978 tax rates indexed by 12 per cent, with taxation rebates of $757 (general) and $622 (wife) allowed. 
Post-February 1978 tax rates indexed by 6 percent, with taxation rebate of $622 (wife) allowed. Rebate indexed by full amount. 
The Medibank Levy has not been calculated for incomes of $10,000 and above for a single man, and $15,000 and above for a man with a dependant wife, where it would be cheaper for the person to take private health insurance. 
<para pgwide="yes">Note: For incomes between $6,37 1 and $8,096 inclusive the amount of tax to be paid would be less under the present tax rates indexed by 12 per cent than under the proposed tax rates indexed by 6 per cent. 
The table indicates that the generosity about which the Government speaks when it refers to the taxation scale does not exist. Time does not permit me to go on in any more detail other than to read to the Senate an extract from  Money Matters  of 19 August. Money Matters is a publication which deals with economic trends, investment hints and industry surveys. It states: 
The economic outlook forecast or implicit in the Budget is far from cheering for investors. There is no impetus to economic recovery until inflation is under control. The Budget sees no change in unemployment, little chance of an inflation rate substantially below 10 per cent, a slower rate of growth in Gross Domestic Product, slower wages growth, little real growth in consumer spending and, most importantly for the  share market, no  guarantee of any marked reduction in interest rates. 
Stagnant economic growth- even with a rise in the business sector's share of GDP- is not going to get share prices rising unless investors are sure interest rates are going to move down. There is no clear indication of this in the Budget. 
For those reasons we oppose the Budget and I urge support for the amendment. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That where whole or part of a deceased estate passes to the surviving spouse it should be free from federal estate duty. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to  Senator Durack  as Attorney-General and Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is he aware that in all States of the Commonwealth newspaper proprietors require the sale of their newspapers to be restricted to newsagents or their nominees as approved by the newspaper proprietors? Is this practice restrictive and contrary to the provisions of free competition? Can the Minister advise what are the circumstances that allow for the sale of interstate daily newspapers in the Australian Capital Territory from a variety of shops, including grog shops? I use the term 'grog' as referring to the liquor discount houses that exist in Canberra. Can the Minister advise whether this means that newspaper proprietors are not able to impose their restrictive practices in the territories under the administration of the Commonwealth? 
I address my question to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacity as Minister for Social Security and also as Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the Minister concede that in the current downturn in the economy the medical profession can properly be described as buoyant and prosperous? Is it not a fact that the Medibank scheme and the private health funds have contributed much to this prosperity? In the circumstances, has the Government given consideration to withdrawing the need for all specialist consultation by patients to be regularly referred by a general practitioner? Will the Minister concede that it would be a saving of public funds if referrals could be valid for a period of, say, 4 years, thus providing some relief to patients as well as medical benefits organisations? 
I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Central Coast, New South Wales, respectfully shows that: 
The Central Coast Parents and Citizens' Associations condemns the action of the Federal Government in issuing guidelines which effectively cut-back funds to Government Schools whilst increasing funds to private schools, in particular a few wealthy independent schools. 
That we do not want education to revert to being used for political gain. 
We call upon the Federal Government to make urgent financial assistance to education throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Is it a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission in investigating industry assistance and problems does not do so in the context of the economy as a whole? Is it this failure that has caused the LAC to be now the subject of an independent review as announced by the Government? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the purpose of the Crawford inquiry and whether the objective investigations, as distinct from the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission, will be affected by the new inquiry? 
The Opposition, of course, already has expressed its view on this matter through the contribution to the debate made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  He drew attention to the fact that we support the legislation but want to make some comments about what we believe to be some of the deficiences that still exist in the wool industry so far as the Government assistance is concerned. I do not think that anyone would disagree that wool has played perhaps the most significant part in the development of not only agriculture but also of the national economy. As  Senator Scott  said, it was the primary of primary industries and it provided very important income to Australia in its formative years. But like all matters relating to economics and changes in the world trade patterns, changes in demand and changes in habits, the wool industry is now subjected to new pressures. Consequently, it is essential that the Government appreciates this and provides the sort of assistance that is necessary to maintain the viability of the wool industry. 
We see this legislation, however, as only a short step towards the essential stabilisation of the wool industry. Accordingly, of course, we agree with the proposals in the legislation to amend the Wool Industry Act so that the Government can continue to make its contribution to the funding of wool research and promotion. That is becoming even more and more important day by day as wool has to meet the competition from the textile industry. I think it has to be said that the wool industry in Australia, nevertheless, will be somewhat disappointed that the Government has not yet been able to formulate its approach or to accept the approach of the wool growing organisations. I refer particularly to the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation which has been urging the Government to accept the principle that it should acquire the total clip for the purpose of levelling out the essential problems that have to be faced in the wool industry, to overcome the cost problems in the industry and to provide particularly for the continuity of supply which is so essential if wool is to be able to meet competition from the textile industry, particularly from overseas. Of course, since the establishment of the research division of the International Wool Secretariat, we have seen the value of that and we have seen the value of government assistance in that direction. 
However, I think it has to be stressed that whilst the Australian Wool Corporation has played a very essential and vital role in helping to provide some stability to the industry, more needs to be done if we are to meet that competition. The buoyancy of the wool industry- I am sure that even honourable senators opposite will agree with me- is one of the bright spots in agriculture today and it is to be hoped that it remains one of the bright spots because if that is affected by any sudden upsurge in the textile industry or downturn in the international demand for wool then it would be a grievous blow indeed to the whole rural scene. While the wool industry has the capacity to stand on its own feet and has the capacity to call on the Government for assistance then that at least maintains some degree of viability in the agricultural scene. I think it has to be drawn to the attention of the Senate and to those who are interested in agriculture and its survival in the current economic difficulties that face not only this country but also all the countries in the Western world that the wool industry is in fact more than catering for its own needs. If honourable senators examine Budget Paper No. 1 and particularly pages 91, 92 and 93 of that Paper, they will see that the wool industry is contributing more to Consolidated Revenue than the Government is contributing to the industry's financial arrangements and stability. An examination of the Budget Papers will show also that, in point of fact, whilst there has been an increase in wool marketing assistance in the amounts provided in the 1975-76 Budget and the 1976-77 Budget, in fact there has been a decrease of Government assistance amounting to $2.2m between the 1976-77 Budget allocation and the current Budget funding. When we look at the research, promotion and other expenditures of the wool industry, we see that there is a considerable payback to Consolidated Revenue by the wool industry. It may be argued that that is as it should be in a period of some prosperity in the wool industry. But that prosperity has come about I think principally because of the steps that were taken by  Senator Wriedt,  as the Minister for Agriculture in the Whitlam Administration, when he responded to the demands of that time. Perhaps it would be better to say that he responded to the needs of that time. He introduced the wool floor price scheme and set the minimum payment at 250c a kilo. Of course, that meant that a very big demand was made upon Government revenue. It amounted to some $400m and represented a very sizeable contribution to the industry. Certainly, it was one that met the need of that time. Subsequently, much of that money has come back to the present Government and into Consolidated Revenue. I think it has to be stressed that the industry itself is making a very sizeable contribution to its own future. 
I wish to refer to the Budget Papers as they relate to total industry assistance in this country. I am referring now not only to the rural sector but to industry generally. I think it is worth while drawing the attention of honourable senators to the measure of assistance which was provided by the Labor Administration as shown on page 94 of the Budget documents. An amount of $350m was provided in the last Labor Budget for industry assistance generally. In the subsequent Budget of the Fraser-Anthony Administration, this amount dropped to $206m. Whilst it is true that overall the amount has increased to $243m in this year's Budget- it increased by $36m from one Liberal-National Country Party Budget to the next- the amount still represents $107m less which is being paid out in the form of industry assistance in those two years in a period when the inflation rate has continued in double figures. I do not think that we ought to pat ourselves on the back too much and suggest that the Government is being magnificent and generous when in fact the Budget Papers show quite the reverse position. I am one of those who is not prepared to get on the bandwaggon and suggest that everything that is investigated and reported to government by the Industries Assistance Commission should be seen in a bad light. As has been pointed out in a recent circular by the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers Council most of the recommendations that the Industries Assistance Commission has made in respect to the rural sector have been adopted by governments- both Labor governments and Liberal-National Country Party coalition governments. Consequently, an important role is being played by that organisation in carrying out the sort of objective investigation that is needed. While I concede that there are many errors of judgment and miscalculation by the Industries Assistance Commission, nevertheless it performs a very valuable role, as I think was conceded even by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  today during Question Time, in providing the Government with objective evaluations from time to time. I think it is about time that a little credit was given to the Labor Administration for the establishment of the floor price scheme for the wool industry. This sort of assistance has had the effect now of making a contribution towards the revenue collected by this government. I think that  Senator Wriedt  is correct in drawing attention to the need for freight rates, both internal and external, to be more closely examined by the Australian Wool Corporation and by the Government. Clearly, this is an area which militates against the industry's cost structure. We can only hope, therefore, that a little more research will be carried on in this area. 
We are living in a highly competitive world and costs need to be taken into consideration. As I said earlier, it is only a small step in the right direction. It is not one which should be accepted without a critical approach and, of course, we do not expect the Government to go all the way in bringing about the essential regeneration of the rural industry. I say this because the attitude in the beef industry shows that there is much to be desired. I heard  Mr Sparkes,  the  President  of the Queensland National Party, making some statements just recently. He was suggesting that this Government would be bringing in a mini Budget in respect to the beef industry which must be regarded now as being at the bottom ot the level of prosperity in the rural sector. I think that we were all disappointed to hear the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  go on record as saying that there is no way in which this Government will introduce a mini Budget for those sections of the rural sector which are not in the fortunate position of the wool industry. We have no hesitation in saying that the legislation should be supported and that the recommendations of the IAC as they apply to the promotion of the wool research trust fund should be adopted. We say that the Government should continue to be involved in the industry and go further than is provided for in this legislation. 
-I should like to be associated with the expressions of condolence that have been offered by members on this side of the House at the very sad passing of Les Haylen. I, like my colleagues, had been associated with him for more than a generation- some 25 years or more. I cannot match the eloquence, although my personal files show many poems of the calibre and capacities, of the poem that has been so ably presented by  Senator Justin  O 'Byrne. This is probably not the time to refer to those poems because they deal with some of the internal matters of the Parliament and of the party to which we belong, but they are rich in humour, they are rich in relevance and they are rich in the folklore of the development of the political and social movements of our country. Les Haylen, of course, epitomised the very rich experiences of the political life of our country. He was a journalist of great repute in the 1930s and 1940s before he came into this Parliament, and I think he brought into the Parliament a great sense of humour and wit as well as courage and conviction, which so often are lacking. I think that sometimes we forget the brighter side of life, the side of life that Les 
Haylen was always able to bring to a political debate or to some of the internal matters which affect the party to which be belonged. 
It is true that he served the people of Australia in this Parliament for a little more than 20 years, and they were difficult years from the Labor Party's point of view. Les was an innovator, an initiator, a goer, if I may use that expression. He wanted to see things changed; he was about social change. Yet he lived in a period when there was not a great deal of movement for the things in which he believed. Nevertheless, he never lost his faith or his belief that changes would be made. I think it is probably true to say that he was a casualty of the Vietnam war in the sense that it was because of the struggles of the 1960s that Les lost his seat in one of those pendulum swings that are notorious in Australian politics. He then sought to come back through the Senate, but because of the activities of the extreme Right in Australian politics, he failed to gain a place in this august chamber. I have no doubt that if he had succeeded he would have enlivened the proceedings and he might well have been a member of this chamber when he died had he been elected on that occasion in the mid-1960s. 
He was a prolific writer, as my colleagues have suggested. He was associated with the Australian Book Society because he believed in the principle that Australians should write about their experiences. He wrote many books, some of which were published by the Australian Book Society of which he was an honoured member. On one occasion I think my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland assisted in a function associated with that organisation, to which Les had given unstinting and unselfish service. It is getting to be something of a habit in this place in recent times to pay tribute to departed comrades of the Houses of Parliament, whether it be the House of Representatives or the Senate. I hope that we will not be required to speak of another of our late colleagues for a considerable period of time. The Parliament itself loses by the death of its distinguished members, and I am sure that we can put Les Haylen into the category of having been a distinguished member of the Opposition. In those circumstances, I am sure that we would want to pay our tribute to him. To his family, who lived with him in Summer Hill for a great number of years, I extend not only my own personal sympathies and condolences in their sad loss but also those of all members of the Parliament and certainly all members of my own party. I can only express the hope that the members of his family will draw some consolation from the  fact that the prestige which Les enjoyed in the Parliament has been recorded today in the expressions of condolence. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 

My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: To what does the 
Government attribute the disastrous drop in percentage terms of gross farm product which has occurred in the first full year of the FraserAnthony Administration? Is it not a fact that during the three years of the Labor Government the percentage increases of gross farm product at 1966-67 constant prices were 4.9 per cent, 9.7 per cent and 7.4 per cent respectively? I ask the Minister. Do these figures not contrast to the mammoth minus 1 1.4 per cent under the McMahon Government and the measley 2.4 per cent in the first year of the conservative Fraser Government? In addition to the tax steps which he suggested in reply to questions by honourable senators, what steps are proposed by the Government to redress this disastrous rural picture in terms of gross farm production? 
I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue harship as inmates of Private Nursing Homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the Private Nursing Homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel you petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make sure that subsidies paid to Private Nursing Homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the Private Nursing Home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a Means Test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. He will recall that I have asked several questions in recent times about the Industries Asssistance Commission. My question flows somewhat from the answer that he gave to  Senator McAuliffe  a few moments ago. I ask the Minister: Did  Mr Howard,  the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, write to the Industries Assistance Commission early in the life of this Government to ensure that the IAC gave due consideration to the employment effects of its recommendations, including their effects on employment in decentralised locations and the capacity of the economy to absorb any changes which the IAC might recommend? As the Commission's charter, as spelt out in section 22 of the Act, requires the Commission to observe all these factors, is the Government still of the opinion that the Commission is not observing the provisions of the Act? If that is the case, in what way is it possible for the Act to be amended without destroying the basis for the Commission's existence? 
Let me put the record straight. The Opposition is not opposing the legislation; what it is saying is that the proposals which the Government is asking the Senate to approve do not meet the needs of local government. This Government did not meet their needs in the Budget of 1976 and it does not meet their needs in the Budget of 1 977. We do not oppose the principle that a fixed proportion of personal income tax should be allocated for local government. We have never opposed that principle. In point of fact, for the past 25 years the Labor Party has been in the vanguard of support of that general principle. 
What seems to have been forgotten by Government supporters in the other place and here is that it was the Whitlam Government in 1974 that introduced for the first time since Federation the principle that local government should receive national revenue to dispense. The Opposition takes issue with the inability of this Government to match the amount of money that was allocated to local government, principally in the two major Budgets of the Whitlam Administration in 1974-75 and 1975-76. What comes out of the debate is the failure of Government supporters to understand the way in which local government operates. There is an abysmal ignorance of the way in which local government budgets are planned. Whilst there would be a measure of disagreement about whether they should be untied grants, specific grants or both, the fact is that in money terms and percentage terms of income tax payments to local government, the ratio is down in the 1977-78 Budget of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I find it a great tragedy that people like  Senator Steele  Hall, who was a Premier of the State of South Australia and who during the period when the Labor Party was in government m Canberra made some of his finest contributions in this chamber, would seek to belittle the Labor Party's approach to aid to local government and give no recognition to the very important breakthrough that took place when the Labor Government introduced the principle of direct payments to local government in 1974. It is one of the myths that this Government has created that local government is better off as a result of the legislation. That is just not true. I do not know whether  Senator Carrick  has misled or lied to the Parliament or whether he wants to confuse the Parliament and, for that matter, the community generally. If we look at the Budget documents presented to the Parliament- I refer to page 1 13 of Budget Paper No. 7- the facts are there. In real terms, leaving aside inflation, the actual allocation of funds to local government in this Budget is less than in the 1975-76 Budget and the 1976-77 Budget. 

 Senator Tehan, who made his contribution by blasting the innovative measures that were taken by the Whitlam Government, seeing everything negative that was done and refusing to pay any tribute to the changes that were made, tried to present the case that local government is happy because it can now spend the money as it likes. He does not even read his own Government's Budget Papers. The facts are there to see on page 1 1 3 of Budget Paper No. 7. As he was speaking, I noted down- if I may make some brief reference to it- that general purpose assistance for local government in the 1975-76 Budget was $79,908,000, which is near enough to $80m in direct grants to local government to spend as it wished. An amount of $25m was made available in the same year to local government for sewerage schemes, again to be spent as it wished. Of course, a variety of emphasis can be said to exist from State to State but the way in which that money is spent is determined by either local government or semi-government. It is not directed by the national Government. If we include the amount of $93 m which was made available for the Regional Employment Development scheme, it accounts, in round figures for $200m of the $275m that was allocated in the Budget to local government in Australia. The honourable senator has the audacity-perhaps its just lack of knowledge; I will give him that credit- to make that assertion. Is he disagreeing with the additional proposals introduced by the Labor Government in 1973-74, that is, the Area Improvement Program and the Australian Assistance Plan under which local communities, not just local government, coming together as concerned citizens and grass roots organisations, were given assistance to provide community facilities? In that Budget nearly $15m was given to the Area Improvement Program. 
I know of no criticism- I have never heard it referred to in any debates and it has never been brought to my attention in the media or by anybody in local government- about the way in which the grass roots organisations spent that $ 15m in that year or in the subsequent year. The amount was provided to supplement the activities of local authorities and to provide facilities that would perhaps have been provided by the local authority in another generation. I remember last year visiting a small country town in Western Australia on a tour of the rural areas where there was a public protest meeting and where the citizens of that town said: "This hall was provided by the Federal Government out of the Area Improvement Program. We could not provide it out of our own resources because of the general state of the rural economy. Our council is unable to collect rates because of the general downturn of the rural sector and we formed an area improvement committee. We made application to the Australian Government and we were given the funds to provide this hall. ' The hall was not lined.  Senator Chaney  will appreciate that in parts of Western Australia in the middle of winter it can be very cold. These people said: 'We hope that next year the Australian Government will provide us with the wherewithal to line the hall so that you will not sit here and shiver should you visit us again. ' 
When we come to work out the budgets at the local government level- I think honourable senators would give me credit for being able to say that I have had some experience in this area- it does not matter to the council, whether it be a shire, municipal or city council, where the funds come from. In New South Wales, for example, the State Government allocates money for the road program. A certain sum of money is collected by the Department of Main Roads by way of a levy and this is then channelled back to the local authority. I can assure honourable senators that the receipt of that money on many occasions helps to balance the budget in respect of a particular council's annual budgetary considerations. If a council here, there or anywhere, receives a specific grant of $50,000 to provide a sportsfield or a public toilet or some leisure facility within its region, it does not matter whether the money comes in the form of a direct grant for that purpose in terms of the Budget income and expenditure or whether it is just given for a general purpose. This is shown in the Budget Papers under the heading 'Capital Assistance for Leisure Facilities' for an amount of $5m. Funds given for leisure purposes on the basis of a communication from a council or from a local group of citizens through the Area Improvement Pro- gram are still being used to provide a community f acility. 
In the early 1960s, when I became  President  of a very big shire in New South Wales, having been convinced of the need for local government to be given a fixed share of the federal revenue I campaigned in those days for 10 per cent of national revenue to be given to local government. I called conferences and participated in conferences called by the Local Government Association to establish this very important principle. I was pleased to be elevated from local government to the national Parliament and to participate in 1974 when the principle of direct grants to local government was established. It is not relevant to take the view that, because in the period of the Labor Administration specific sums were made available for use in the budget considerations of local government, that was a bad thing. In point of fact, that is the way budget formulations take place. I am sure that my colleague opposite, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who was in local government for many years, will agree that it does not matter where the funds come from as long as they are available. 
If honourable senators opposite examined the Budget Papers and the specific areas which were provided for in the period of the Labor Administration, would any of them suggest that it was wrong to make money available to local government for nursing homes, aged or disabled persons homes, delivered meals subsidies- called by different names from State to State- pre-schools and child care, home care services, senior citizen centres, and so on? These were the specific areas which were provided for in the period in which we were in government. In answer to questions, particularly from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt), Senator Walsh  and me in the last year or two-since the so-called new federalism became one of the myths of this GovernmentSenator Carrick on numerous occasions has suggested that the States and local governments are immensely better off than they were under ' Whitlam 's centralism', which is the terminology that he uses. 
What are the facts? The facts are clearly stated. Excluding roads, there was a high peak in 1975-76 in direct and specific grants to local government. In 1975-76, $275m was allocated. Last year, the figure dropped to $192m and this year it has increased to $203m, excluding roads. It does not matter very much whether grants for roads or the specific grants are lumped together in the form of direct grants or in a nominated form. The fact is that when one is working out a budget one needs to know that a certain sum of money will be made available to provide the local people with goods and services. But what has happened? In a period of inflation, when I was  president  of my shire council- I am sure no one will contest this viewpoint- I found that, the more work the council did, the more services it provided, the more roads it sealed, the more ovals it opened, the more beaches it opened and die more community facilities such as libraries it opened, the greater was the increase in the rates in order to maintain those facilities. 
At the moment we have a Liberal  president  of the shire. He is endeavouring to fool the people of the shire by saying that he has been able to contain the rates and not increase them. He has been able to do that because of the innovative activities of the Whitlam Government in bringing in direct and other forms of assistance to local government. So, of course, that is an easy way to peg the rates. It is very easy not to provide a wider range of activities, although one of the principal facets of local government is, as  Senator Tehan  who has just spoken in this debate said, to provide a range of activities in line with the needs of the community at the grass roots level. The stage can be reached, of course, where the rates are halved. This can be done by cutting out half the community facilities. That is an objective that could be accepted quite easily by a group in a particular local authority; but would hardly be a popular objective. However, because the amount of money, in real terms, that is available to local government in fact has dropped, that is what many councils are doing. They are maintaining rates at the minimum and using Commonwealth revenue to supplement thenincome in order to peg rates. 
Perhaps, that is a desirable objective. That de- pends upon the philosophy of those who run the local council. I do not quarrel with the right of those people to make that decision. However, we are concerned with unemployment. We are concerned with the fact that in rural areas the unemployment ratio is twice as high as it is in urban Australia. It may be the judgment of a local authority in a rural area that because of the general economic conditions it has to maintain the rates and, therefore, all Federal funds do is maintain the status quo. They are not contributing towards the resurgence, the stimulation and the regeneration of the economy in rural centres or, for that matter, in urban centres. Of course, a great deal of criticism has been made of the Regional Employment Development scheme. Do not honourable senators opposite know the way in which the RED scheme operated in terms of local government? Do they seriously suggest that the works that were carried out by localgovernment, under the general umbrella of the RED scheme, were not jobs that were nominated by the local authority and approved by the Australian Government? 
Of course; because we were under tremendous pressure to reduce government expenditure, and this Government is continuing to do that. This Government now has 90,000 more people out of work. It has the economy in a worse state today than it was in when the Government came in allegedly to clear it up in three years. It has only a year to go and the economic situation is worse than it ever was. Do not talk to me about the Labor Government discontinuing a scheme when the pack- that includes all members of the Liberal and National Country parties and those who attempt to determine public opinion in this country- suggest that all the ills of the economy and all the ills of Western society could be solved if only government expenditure were reduced. 
Under that pressure, we did reduce government expenditure, but we did not reduce allocations to local government. That is the important point. This Government reduced allocations to local government in 1976 and it is doing it in 1977. This is why I find it difficult to comprehend  Senator Steele  Hall's contribution to the debate. In real terms, in our 1975-76 Budget we paid to local government 3 per cent of personal income tax collections. This piece of legislation reduces that to 1.6 per cent. If that is to be the Government's objective, or if that is to be the low point in the legislation and the Government aims to increase that percentage, then many local government authorities say- I have checked it out- that they were better off under the old scheme than they are under this scheme. Sure, they now know how much they will get- I give credit for the fact that at least they know what the considerations will be when they frame their budgets- but they are worse off financially. The result is that there is a downturn in activity in the local government sector. That contributes to a worsening of the employment position. For every person out of work this Government reduces the capacity of this country to get the economy back on a more even keel. 
Local government is an organisation- I am sure honourable senators will agree with mewhich spends almost all its income on providing services and, therefore, employment. But if in fact there were not a reduction in real termsthere is a reduction in real terms under this legislation because there is a drop in funds- and if the 1975-76 ratio were maintained, local government under this Budget would receive $345m, not the $203m that is provided. The strategy of the 1930s to provide employment opportunities was to use the local government apparatus and works staff to provide community facilities. I do not think we can possibly accept as valid all the criticisms of the Area Improvement Program, the Australian Assistance Plan or the Regional Employment Development scheme. By all means let us have a better RED scheme. I am not suggesting that everything that was done by the Labor Government was perfect. I am not suggesting that I did not have my criticisms in the Parliament and in the party room about them but we did set about a better allocation of resources. We did try to rectify 30-odd years of neglect of local government in terms of community facilities. We did recognise that fact. As I have said here before when we have been discussing matters associated with local government, the Liberal Party and the Country Party refused even to consider any suggestion of a fixed share of income tax or even an ex gratia payment in terms of local government authorities as a principle. 
OK, we now have a tax sharing arrangement but one could speak at length about that and the trepidation that exists in the minds of Premiers Court, Hamer, Dunstan and Wran about the changes in the arrangements and the ratio of funding to the States under the so-called new federalism proposal and whether stage 2 will be a successful ploy or not. We think that these are legitimate questions that ought to be raised in the Parliament. We disagree fundamentally with the premise that it is proper for Western societies to reduce public expenditure. I have just returned from a trip to Japan where I found this Government 's representatives implementing the Labor Party policy of selected public sector activity in order to get some development in the private sector. To the degree that there is a cut back in spending in the public sector, then in the long run this will maintain the downturn in the Australian economy. 
I think this legislation should be supported and that is why we are not moving any amendments or in any way opposing the proposition, but what we are saying is that this Government has taken no account of inflation and no account of the need to index the effects of inflation on local government budgeting. The result is a standstill position, generally speaking, in local government because Government funds are being used for the specific purpose of maintaining the status quo, and I seriously put it to the Government that that is not what is required at this time. What is required is to stimulate public instrumentalities, whether they be water board authorities, public works authorities in the various States or the local government authorities by the reintroduction of a better RED scheme. We have learned from our mistakes of the previous scheme. That sort of stimulatory activity is going to be essential, and sooner or later this Government or another government will take up the cudgels in that respect. Sooner or later those countries that rely entirely upon private sector activity will be forced to change their orthodox thinking in these respects and go back to selective spending in the public sector in order to absorb unemployment, in order to overcome the social problems that come from that, and in order to provide communities with the wide range of public facilities which they need. There would not be an area anywhere in Australia, whether it be in Seven Hills or Mount Druitt- the new areas of Sydney in the western suburbs- or in Ku-rin-gai which is one of the more salubrious suburbs of Sydney, as some might put it, where some community facilities are not needed, and there are still employment opportunities that can be provided in those areas given the wherewithal. If those who subscribe to the theory that rates should be kept at a low level having regard to the general strategy of maintaining costs, then all the more reason why the national Government should go further than providing, in round figures, 1.6 per cent of personal income tax revenue to local government. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the latest Bureau of Statistics quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure which indicate that the percentage upward change in rent from the June quarter 1976 to the June quarter 1977 has been a mammoth 19.4 per cent, more than 5 per cent higher than the increase for total non-durables. Does the Government view this figure as reflecting increases in council rates following the failure of the Fraser Government to maintain Federal Government expenditure to local government at least as high in real terms as the last Whitlam Budget, or does the Government believe that it reflects the failure of its housing policies? In view of the express changes of economic policy by  Mr Fraser,  will the Government make available to the Parliament its estimation of the number of those unemployed who could be gainfully re-employed under an increased public spending program? 
I present the following petition from 141 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Recognise that the present situation regarding the approval of nursing home accommodation for the aged in the Sutherland Shire Area is at present totally inadequate. 
Take steps to alleviate this position and make finance available for the building of nursing home accommodation in this Shire to provide beds when the necessity for one arises. 
Look into the situation of hardship caused by the cost of pensioners and their families who have to meet the difference between fees charged by some nursing homes and the pensions and subsidies available to offset these. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Senate, correctly from the point of view of the Australian Labor Party, is condemning the Government for its incompetence in managing the economy. I think we have been given some indication of that by the contributions to the debate by speakers for the Opposition in support of this motion. I feel inclined to refer to the first part of what  Senator Walsh  said when he quoted from  Mr Fraser  's speech of August of last year when  Mr Fraser  said that there is growing evidence that the Government's policies are working and to refer to  Mr Fraser's  remarks on 9 December 1976 when he said: 
Throughout this year the Government has one clear goal in front of it. That goal is a sustainable economic recovery which will lead Australia towards sustained economic growth and increasing employment opportunities. 
There is no doubt that none of those objectives has been realised. It is very clear that the Government senators who have participated in this debate are living in cuckoo land. They are living in a world of unreality. In point of fact if we examine the comments that are being made throughout this country about the economy, we find that the only people who are satisfied with our supposed progress are supporters of the Government in the House of Representatives and the Senate. I have referred to what  Mr Fraser  said last year about the goal of the Government. We support the goal. It is undoubtedly a laudable one. But we believe that the strategy is wrong and that the Fraser Government's economic policy has failed miserably recently. 
I draw to the attention of  Senator Messner  figures from the Government's own publications which clearly he is not able to understand. They show, for example, that in the 1975 period, under the Labor Government, there were 4,752,700 people working in Australia. According to the May 1977 figures, which are the latest figures available in the monthly review of statistics, there has been a decline of 20,000 disregarding the number of people who might otherwise have gone into the work force. What have been the comments about the economy by reputable people- people who do normally take a critical view of the Government? I refer to the remarks of Professor Hogan, who is one of the Government's economic advisers. He said that a minimum of 6.5 per cent of the work force would be unemployed by January. He also said that the Budget will not provide very much stimulus to the private sector, and this is recognised in the very cautious assessments.  Dr Bell  from the AMP Society said that the failure of the Budget to give more direct stimulation to business was one of its weaknesses. He went on to say that this could have been achieved by dispensing with the increase in corporate tax, selectively increasing public works expenditure and ameliorating its pruning of government expenditure in areas where employment and private section purchases were significant. He went on to say that personal tax cuts would not necessarily encourage consumption to a degree sufficient to justify an increase in business investment. 
What empirical evidence do we have? This is where I want to make my contribution to the debate. A Bureau of Statistics document which was made available to us only in the last few weeks shows that, quite contrary to what  Senator Messner  said, in 1974 final consumption expenditure was 1.9 per cent and that it dropped in 1977 by 0.2 per cent to 1.7 per cent; that whilst consumer expenditure has increased by 0.8 per cent in the public sector there has not been an increase in the private sector, which is the strategy that this Government has accepted and is working towards. This document shows that rents have increased by 19.4 per cent between the June quarter of 1976 and the June quarter of 1977 and that motor vehicle sales are down 5.7 per cent. It also shows that there has been an increase in the last year in relation to expenditure on household durables but that increase relates only to the rate of inflation. So, contrary to what the Government contends, there has not been an increase in consumer spending. Food prices increased in the last year by 14.1 per cent and wages increased by only 10.8 per cent. 
I refer now to another government document which has been circulated to honourable senators this very week. I refer to page 2 of the 1977 round-up of economic statistics, which shows that the Government is not looking at this picture in a proper way and is not accepting its responsibilities. According to page 2 of that document private consumption expenditure declined by 0.7 per cent in the half year to June and the gross fixed capital private expenditure declined by 2 per cent in the half year to June. It fell by 2.3 per cent in the March quarter and 5.3 per cent in the June quarter. So we have a position where private investment has declined. 
It has been suggested by government senators that the Opposition is not in favour of an adequate housing policy. The plain fact is that there has been a considerable decline in the housing area in the last two years of this conservative Government. Let us examine just one set of figures in respect of housing loans. They show that in June of this year the savings banks lent $185m for housing. In July, the last month for which figures are available the amount of lending was down to $ 1 74m. In June of this year the trading banks lent $69m. In July they lent only $58m. The figures show conclusively that there has been a decline in the private sector and that there has been a serious levelling off, even in public sector activity, as a direct result of the policies pursued by this Government. Page 4 of the document to which I am referring shows that, seasonally adjusted and at constant prices, private investment in other building and construction fell in 1 976-77 by 1 3.2 per cent. 
Let us examine the employment position. It does not matter whether we look at urban employment or rural employment, and it does not matter whether we look at urban incomes or rural incomes; the position is still critical. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics had the following comment to offer in respect of its estimations for 1977-78: 
Despite increased gross returns, farm income is expected to decline by 8 per cent in 1 977-78 to $ 1 ,766m. If the rate of inflation were assumed to be around 10 per cent in 1977-78, then real income per farm is estimated to fall by 14 per cent. 
Yet Professor Hogan pointed out that in his value judgment about the rate of inflation the Government's estimate of 10 per cent probably would exceed by 1.5 per cent. Let us look at the employment figures which have been spoken about at some length and at the optimistic picture that the Government is presenting. The Commonwealth Employment Service has provided figures which show that at the end of July there were 337,391 people out of work. That is 5.4 per cent of the work force. The latest figures from the Bureau show that in August 263,000 of these people were seeking full time employment, with another 53,000 seeking part time employment. In seasonally adjusted terms, unemployment has increased to 5.7 per cent of the work force. The figures released by the ABS this week show that between May and August 1977 no significant change occurred in the total number of unemployed. In seasonally adjusted terms, there was an increase in unemployment of 19,800 people. In May, persons aged 15 years to 19 years comprised 14.6 per cent of the total unemployed. That percentage rose in August to 19.1 per cent. 
Let us look at this matter in terms of the rural community. I have time to refer only very briefly to some of these figures. I will refer only to the New South Wales figures. Can we be complacent when 1,800 people are unemployed in Albury, 1,500 in Bega, 2,150 in Charlestown, 2,187 in Dubbo, 1,693 in Taree and 1,927 in Wagga Wagga? One could go on and point to the very difficult situation that faces persons in rural centres. Let us look at the actual figures of those who were employed in the private and public sectors of the economy in December 1972. In the private sector 3,397,500 people were employed. This is stated on page 4 of the ABS document. Some 1,138,300 people were employed in the public sector. At the end of our term in 1975 there was an increase of 130,000 in the public sector and an increase of only 57,000 in the private sector. What do the current figures show? The preliminary figures for the month of July, again from the same source, show a decline in the private sector of 36,000 persons from January 1976 when this Government changed the statistics somewhat- these are the statistics from which I now have to quote- and an increase in the public sector of some 55,000. 
The strategy of expecting the private sector to take up the slack, the strategy of accepting the inevitability of the proposition that the private sector will be stimulated by investment allowances, export incentives and so on, clearly has failed. Whilst it may be said that Budgets from State to State have adopted certain strategies in respect of government spending, as economic spokesman have suggested and as the Labor Party has suggested there has to be some selective spending in the public sector in order to get a regenerative process within the Australian economy. Of course, that is the conclusion that has been reached by the conservative government in Japan. It is the conclusion that has been reached by the governments of West Germany and many of the other industrialised countries. 
Nowhere in the Western world is the private sector taking up the challenge. It is interested only in accumulating its capital and investing in areas where it gets the highest returns, and now that happens to be in the Third World and not in the industrialised countries. Therefore, the accumulation of capital is taking place in the Western world. The fact is that some 55 per cent of all the profits made in Australia go out of Australia to satisfy shareholders in other countries. That capital then will be invested in the Third World countries for the purpose of producing a higher return on investment. This is not assisting in the process of increasing investment possibilities in our own country. This Government fails to understand that by relying entirely upon the private sector it will not achieve the goals which it set itself in 1975. which it reiterated in 1976 and which were the basis of its Budget strategy in 1977. 
It is in the light of those circumstances, in the light of the figures that are available to us and in the light of the assessments that we make of those figures that we come to the conclusion that this Government's strategy is not working and that there is in fact a decline in business activity. Let us look at the last survey that was taken only a few days ago. The  Australian Financial Review  carries the headline 'Industry's Gloomy Outlook'. The article reads: 
Manufacturers have taken a decidedly gloomly business outlook for the next 6 months in the latest Associated Chambers of Manufacturers- Bank of New South Wales survey. 
That is not our conclusion; that is the conclusion of people who support this Government. 
My question is directed to  Senator Cotton  in his capacities as Minister representing the Treasurer and Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the recent statement by those Ministers on tax averaging. I therefore ask the Minister: Why did the Government fail to follow in full the other recommendations put to the Government by the Industries Assistance Commission on the matter of tax averaging? Further, in view of the plight of many small businesses in Australia, has the Government given any consideration to the strong invitation by the Commission to make available to all individual taxpayers the income equalisation deposits scheme and tax averaging? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the findings in a Department of Employment and Industrial Relations report which showed that young unemployed persons have tried harder to obtain jobs than unemployed adults and that in fact some 33,000 people under 25 years of age have not registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and consequently are not receiving benefits, is the Minister prepared to state that the term 'dole bludger' as applied to young unemployed people is inaccurate and grossly misleading? Will the Minister make it clear to Government supporters that it deprecates the use of the phrase and that some dignity should be restored to those who are unable to find employment? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth in Parliament assembled, the humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That where whole or part of a deceased estate passes to the surviving spouse it should be free from federal estate duty. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card, have suffered undue hardship as inmates of private nursing homes, because the Federal Government subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the private nursing homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make sure that subsidies paid to private nursing homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the private nursing home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow $6 per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Benefit Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a means test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in both his capacity as Minister representing the Acting Treasurer and as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask him: Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Corporation is currently experiencing difficulty in funding the wool support scheme? Have steps been taken to augment the Corporation's funds by approaching the private banks for carry-on finance? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that overseas owned and controlled petroleum companies will gain approximately $150m from the Government's decision to raise the price of indigenous crude oil? Is the Government aware that these companies propose to use this windfall to buy into Australian owned coal companies? What steps does the Government propose to take to protect Australian equity in such Australian enterprises? Does the Government contemplate a resources tax on these excessive profits? 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Technical and Further Education has been a neglected area of education for many years. Inadequate funds over many years has prevented improvement and renewal of obsolete and decaying buildings. For example in the Newcastle Technical College the buildings at the Wood Street and at the Hunter Street sites are a far cry from the generally good standard found at the Tighes Hill campus. Shortages of funds have precluded reasonable maintenance programs on buildings that are otherwise quite satisfactory. 
We recognise the urgent need to develop the technology and training of sufficient skilled persons to meet Australia's future needs and call upon the Federal Government to make urgent immediate action by providing a massive injection of funds into the TAFE area to improve both student accommodation and to provide much needed modern training equipment. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I support the motion moved by the Opposition, which deals with the social and economic implications of youth unemployment. I must say that I am somewhat disappointed with the defence by  Senator Durack  in this matter. He did not deal with the basic philosophy under which we have submitted our motion for debate today. It is all right to say that the level of unemployment is at a certain point and, depending upon when and how one looks at the figures, to say that it is 5.3 per cent or 5.64 per cent, which are the figures that I have; nevertheless it represents a very serious challenge to governments and communities to solve the problem of unemployment. Whatever decisions have been taken by the Government are clearly not working because the Government is endeavouring on all occasions to try to deal with the effect and not the cause.  Senator Durack  made brief mention of the unemployment problem flowing from the effects of modern society but he did not acknowledge that it is the economic system and the deficiencies within the system which are creating the problem not only in Australia but also in most of the other countries in the Western world. The Government is not taking the essential steps and some of the options that otherwise would be open to it. 
The fact of the matter is that it is an immoral situation to have 5 per cent of our work force unemployed and to have the biggest percentage of them- in excess of 50 per cent of them- under the age of 25 years. It is a waste of human resources to have the people who have been educated in the way in which we educate them in this country through many long years of schooling find when they come into the labour force that they are not able to be gainfully employed and all that that means. Surely honourable senators opposite will acknowledge the fact that we had a sick economy in the early 1970s and that the Labor Government inherited a situation which was unsatisfactory in 1972. When this Government was elected to office in 1975- almost two years ago- it was given an overwhelming mandate to reduce inflation, to reduce unemployment and to bring about stability in the Australian economy. The first Budget adopted the strategy of seeking a consumer led recovery. That did not take place. The second Budget set out to achieve an investment and consumer led recovery. That has not taken place. The Government also has not succeeded in achieving the single digit inflation level that it claimed was part of its basic economic strategy. 
I think we ought to examine what Government spokesmen have said in this regard.  Senator Cotton  said in an address only last week that economic recovery has been just around the corner for far too long. He was speaking at a gathering in Queensland. He went on to say that he believed that it should be business and not government that takes the initiative in bringing forward the economic recovery that for far too long has been just around the corner. It is going to remain around the corner. No wonder we have a person of the standing in the Liberal Party of Australia of  Mr Wentworth  saying that his resignation from the Liberal Party is in challenge to the economic policies that have been pursued in the two years that this Government has been in office. It cannot be said that in any way any appreciable gains have been made with respect to any aspect of the Australian economy. In fact we now have a larger number of people out of work in the younger age group than we have had in Australia since the Great Depression. 
Time will not permit me to do more than draw attention to one of the initiatives that this Government has taken. I refer to the investment allowance. How can this Government justify H. C. Sleigh Ltd receiving an investment allowance of $935,000 when its profits increased by more than 12.1 per cent last financial year to $6m? It was reported in yesterday's newspaper that Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd, which had a vast increase in its profitability, accepts the fact that the trading stock valuation allowance has given it $546,000. How can that sort of assistance be channelled in the direction of solving the economic problems that face this country? 
The plain facts are that unemployment in the Western industrialised countries is at an all time high. Some 15 million people are out of work in those countries. The International Labour Organisation, with which we are affiliated, has suggested that some seven million of them are under the age of 25 years. We have a very dismal situation and, in my view, a demoralised Government in terms of its responsibilities to the economy. This Government is pursuing policies which are largely aimless. They have no clear direction because they are not working. In many ways they can be likened to an iceberg floating around in the Red Sea. There is no way that the policies being pursued by this Government will solve the economic problems and the problems that face young people in this country. Look at the document given to members of Parliament in the last 24 hours. It is a report on youth affairs by a study group and is dated February 1977. It states: 
The problem of youth unemployment and school/work transition confronts not only Australia but every developed Western country. 
On page 21 of that document the group draws attention to the position that exists in this country and contradicts the speech that has just been given by  Senator Durack.  It states: 
In August 1976 there was 107,092 young people aged 16-24 receiving unemployment benefits. These constituted 56 per cent of the total number of unemployment benefit recipients. In May 1977 this had increased to 120,926 recipients. 

 Dr Brian Scott is reported in today's  Canberra Times  as saying: 
By 1990 we could easily have serious echoes, at the political level, of the frustration of today's young unemployed. Remember that many angry young men of the 1930s who walked the streets looking vainly for work in later life sought to introduce radical changes into a political system which they felt was heartless and unfair. 
Several similar articles have been published in our newspapers. Newspapers are one of the sources from which governments and oppositions can draw information. I look particularly at the statements that have been made by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development as reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of July this year. They refer to the problems facing countries associated with the OECD. In France 49 per cent of the estimated one million unemployed are under the age of 25 years. There is a very serious problem with young people in Italy. Despite the education of young people and attempts of the Government to bring about a very substantial increase in educational opportunities, the fact is that the great majority of the people walking the streets in Italy are suffering from the lack of employment. 
The whole strategy of the Government is wrong in respect of its approach to the economy. 
It is clear that that strategy is not bringing about the recovery that is essential. The Government is espousing policies that rely entirely upon the private sector to regenerate the economy. Today there are heavy international pressures for trade, a downturn in all the advanced countries of the world and growing unemployment. Even in the United States of America it is admitted that private investment capital is declining and has been for some time. How could any government suggest that the private sector will bring about the sort of investment-led recovery and the sort of private investment necessary to create more job opportunities? It is no wonder that the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 20 September in an editorial headed 'Where to now?' referred to  Mr Fraser  's announcements that there were to be no further cuts in federal spending, and went on to say that  Mr Fraser  and his Government could not rest on their laurels and that the Government could not rely upon the policies that it had been espousing. Of course in this circumstance one is entitled to ask: Why all the speculation about an early election? Why are we not having a general public debate about the state of the economy? Why are we not talking about the unemployment position? 
Although the veracity of gallup polls has been challenged sometimes in the past, it is interesting to note that all the polls that have been published over the last several weeks have shown that unemployment is now the issue that is worrying the Australian people. It is not inflation; it is unemployment. The latest gallup poll out today shows that 75 per cent of the Australian people believe that unemployment is the issue that should be the responsibility of governments. Inflation has receded in the thinking of the Australian people. I find it inconceivable that  Senator Durack  should take some consolation from the fact that the figures remain somewhat the same as they were between 1975 and 1977. We are not in a satisfactory position. We are part of the world system.  Mr Lynch  said in the Budget Speech that he expected that there would be some recovery on the world scene which would then assist us to a recovery on the domestic scene commensurate with the policies that were also being taken domestically by this Government. Last night's Sydney  Sun  stated: 
Given that economic recovery in Australia- and the rest of the world, for that matter-is so dependent on an upturn in the United States, a recent survey of American business economists makes gloomy reading. 
They expect economic expansion in the US to be slower this year than last and predict that growth will probably halt and the economy then turn down by late 1 978 or early 1979. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to refer to a breakdown of young people who are out of work in this country. It is very revealing that figures as at 1 April 1977 show that in rural Australia 2,528 people were receiving unemployment benefit. Recipients numbering 1967 were in the category of professionals, 55,387 were clerical and interestingly none had been employed in mining. Next come the skilled industries. 
In building there were 3,884 in the metal trades 5,735 and in glass, furnishing, printing, and so on there were 2,084. In semi-skilled industries there were 26,399, in unskilled industries 23,109 and in service occupations, that is generally in the tertiary sector, something in excess of 10,712. That is a pretty disgraceful and distasteful situation. 
This Government has had everything going for it to remedy the situation as it saw it m 1975 when it said it wanted three years to restore the economy. It has had a absolute majority in both Houses of Parliament. It has had every opportunity to present policies and legislation and take the sort of options that are necessary to get the economy back on to an even keel. The facts are that there are now more young people, about whom we are talking today, out of work than there were in 1975. It is most interesting that Government senators keep insisting that it is the unit labour cost in production that is so important to be realised in economic recovery. A  Fortune  article in August 1 976 lists the increase in unit costs in United States constant dollars in the period from 1970 to 1975 in various countries. In the United States there was a 35 per cent, increase, in Canada a 43 per cent increase in West Germany a 116 per cent increase and in Japan a 141 per cent increase. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order ! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that Australia annually spends more than $100m in purchasing United States films for the domestic market? Is the Minister aware that American film distributors have refused to reciprocate in the purchase of Australian film productions? Having regard to the excellent quality of Australian films- I refer in particular to films like  Caddie- has  the Government made any attempt to persuade the American film distributors to buy our films, as is happening in the United Kingdom? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has noted the remarks of Professor Brogan that a  Mr Burridge,  a member of the staff of the Australian High Commission in Port Moresby, had approached him to act as an agent of the Joint Intelligence Organisation in collecting information on Irian Jaya, or West Irian? Is it normal for senior public servants to act in such a capacity in friendly countries. What is the purpose of collecting information about West Irian? Further, does this incident reveal that the Government is now concerned about the activities of Indonesia in this region? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Has the Government given any serious consideration to proposals that agricultural products can be developed as sources of energy? Does the Minister acknowledge that power alcohol is feasible from sugar cane and has he had brought to his attention the theses of  Mr Mollison  of the Tasmanian University that other agricultural production, given further study and funds, can be converted as energy sources? Will the Minister advise what efforts have been made by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to develop these propositions and has the Government allocated sufficient funds to assist in such research, which could ultimately materially boost the rural sector? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is a fact that 6,000 rural producers are now receiving unemployment benefits? Has she noted the remarks last week of the honourable member for Dawson, in which he deplored the fact that primary producers with no means, and suffering hardship, were having their unemployment benefits withdrawn as a result of new procedures in the Department of Social Security? Has she investigated the circumstances, and are they the result of new work-testing procedures of the Commonwealth Employment Service which forbid the Department to pay the applicant even when it is aware that extreme hardship exists? Have these persons, whose unemployment benefits have been withdrawn, been told of their right of appeal and right to apply for special benefit? Finally, are these new guidelines affecting primary producers in all areas of Australia? 
-I do not enter this debate for the purpose of delaying the passage of the Bill. It is an annual event. The House of Representatives and the Senate debate a similar Bill each year concerning the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. On every occasion such a Bill has come before the Parliament it has enjoyed the support of the Opposition. We are not concerned with the infamous remarks about why we wish to speak in respect to this ploy- that is all we are dealing with- that the Government is putting before the Senate. It is using this Bill as a means to achieve an end. That end has been well and truly exposed by those who have spoken before me. It is to hurry up the legislation for the purpose of discussing the more contentious and controversial amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Bill we are asked to expedite was passed by the House of Representatives on 6 October. If it is an important Bill, as  Senator Hall  and  Senator Collard  suggest, why was it not debated in this House last Thursday night when, at the instigation of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers),  we adjourned at 5 p.m. to go home? If it is important we could have dealt with it then and not have left it on the table until today and then use it as a means and an excuse to expedite the business of this Senate so that we can deal with matters of great moment which affect about 4 million trade unionists in this country. Of course, the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill is an important one from Queensland's point of view.  Senator Collard  said that the Opposition wants to use the forms of the House. What is wrong with that,  Mr President?  In the seven years I have been in this place I have seen honourable senators opposite use the forms of the House in a very notorious way to bring about their desired ends and to bring about the downfall of governments which had the majority support of the electorate in the other place. What is good for the goose is good for the gander. The Government objects when we want to use the forms of the House in order to point out the tactics being employed on this particular occasion. 

 Senator Collard had the audacity and temerity to suggest that we are trying to deny the sugar cane growers of Queensland the use of fertilisers. Everybody knows that this is a machinery Bill. This measure is placed before the Parliament every year. In no way will it affect the payment of a subsidy or bounty to those who want to use a nitrogenous fertiliser because it operates from 1 January 1978.  Senator Collard  then showed his lamentable lack of knowledge when he suggested that we failed the sugar cane growers of Queensland and elsewhere in Australia when we did not negotiate a decent price for sugar. It was a matter of great glee for the producers of this country when  Dr Patterson  in 1 975 - 
I am replying to what  Senator Collard  said, with respect,  Mr President.  In fact, a very good price was negotiated for the sugar cane industry. Be that as it may, we are being asked to expedite the business of this place in order that we can sit for an extra day and repeat the charade that went on on 19 August when we had to stay behind for the purpose of passing an important Bill- a Bill of great urgency, to use the words of  Senator Withers.  The Government guillotined the debate and denied the Opposition a chance to discuss the Bill. If it was so important, why have we not had an opportunity tor debate within the normal forms of the Parliament? Why was the Bill not brought in on Tuesday or Wednesday? 
Why is it that the Bill that will be introduced at 8 o'clock this evening will be brought on for debate before the members of the party that I represent have an opportunity to discuss it among themselves, let alone with the broad sections of the trade union movement that wish to discuss the matter with my party and to convey their point of view to my party so that the Bill may be debated adequately in this place and in the community generally? We are being denied the opportunity to do that on the specious ground that the Senate has to pass the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill and that if it does not do that some people who are experiencing some form of hardship because of the attitude that has been taken by the Japanese Government in particular in respect of the price of Queensland sugar will be adversely affected. Of course, nothing is being said by the Government about the insulting way in which  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  of Queensland has referred to our major trading partner- Japan- in the last 24 hours. 
We believe that we are entitled to have adequate time to discuss this piece of legislation and to discuss the more contentious Bill. We feel very strongly that what is required to get the economy of this country going and to get an upturn in the economy is for the Government to bring about co-operation and consensus- not confrontation. Constantly we see leading figures in the Government trying to manoeuvre us into a position where there is absolute confrontation and no dialogue. That is the tactic to which  Senator Cavanagh  drew attention in speaking during the previous debate. On the previous occasion on which we were forced to sit for an extra day we had to expedite the business of the Senate on the Thursday of that week in order to enable us to deal with certain legislation in the same way as we are being asked to deal with legislation tomorrow. But what has happened to the earlier legislation? That legislation still has not been proclaimed. 
If the Government wants war with the Opposition, I can assure it that the mood of my colleagues and me is that it will get war. Does the Government not want co-operation from the Opposition in this chamber or does it want to go back to the period when there was co-operation? I learned a lot when I first became a member of this chamber.  Senator Murphy  was then leader of my party in opposition and honourable senators opposite were in government. I saw a great deal of what is known as co-operation, tolerance and goodwill. I heard  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and others pay tribute - 
Government senators- Ha, ha! 
Honourable senators opposite can laugh if they like, but I heard  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, who was the Leader of the Government in the Senate at that time, and other Government leaders pay tribute to the co-operation that was extended by the Opposition in the passage of Bills. It seems to me that, if the parliamentary process is to operate at all and to work in a sense of goodwill and some give and take, that is the way in which we ought to be dealing with this motion and that is the way in which we ought to be dealing with the Bill that is to be introduced in this chamber at 8 o'clock this evening. 
One can use numbers to achieve anything. God only knows, I have seen plenty of that in the Australian Labor Party. That is obviously what is happening in this chamber and what has happened in this chamber consistently. I find it somewhat difficult to appreciate the very ingrained logic of  Senator Withers  when a matter of this nature was dealt with on 19 August and he spoke about a program that  Senator Murphy  put down in 1973. He went on about it at great length.  His  researchers obviously had done their job well.  Senator Withers  presented the time scale. 
That is right.  Senator Withers  presented the time scale; but the interesting thing is that the Liberal and Country parties had the numbers to enable them to defeat the objective of the Government of that time. They have had the numbers in the Senate since the early 1950s. Even on that occasion a degree of goodwill was expressed that enabled the Government's program to be achieved. Is it wrong for the Opposition to suggest that that sort of philosophy ought to exist even today? If the House of Representatives wants to pass a Bill at midnight tonight it is fair enough for it to do so. It has been freely acknowledged that in 1974, immediately after the Labor Party was returned to government, honourable senators opposite set about bringing down that Government by using their numbers in this place. 
I want to see a return to the situation where there is some goodwill in respect of these matters and not the blatant use of numbers that has become characteristic of the Senate. In other words, adequate time ought to be set aside to enable the Senate to carry out its review role. In practically every case adequate time has been set aside for debates on Bills. We members of the Opposition have been chided and derided for daring to stand on our feet and use the forms of the Senate, which I did not invent and which the Labor Party did not invent but which are part of the Standing Orders upon which the tradition of the Senate has been built. In using those forms we are severely criticised. The suggestion that we are not playing the game has been made by the people who have never played the game while they have had the numbers in this chamber. Honourable senators opposite have never played the game; yet they have had the audacity to suggest that during the three brief years in which the Labor Party was in government they did not use the forms of the House to achieve their objectives not only within the parliamentary sphere but also outside-perhaps even in the vice-regal arena. 
Be that as it may, the fact of the matter is that we are being asked to expedite the business of this chamber for a special purpose, and we object to that special purpose. That special purpose has no relationship to urgency, particularly if it is related to what the Government did on 19 August.  Senator Georges  posed a very reasonable question when he asked: What is wrong with the Senate dealing next Tuesday with the contentious Bill about the trade union movement? 
I appreciate that,  Mr President;  but you surely must appreciate that it is consequential upon the adoption of that motion. There is a relationship. One cannot divorce that from the urgency approach that  Senator Withers  has applied to this Bill. There is just no point in suggesting that the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill has to be passed within the next 10 minutes or half hour. As you well know, the procedures have been such that such a Bill has been considered - 
Yes,  Mr President.  We have heard a great deal about this matter from the Government senators who are supporting the motion. I have found it very interesting, seeing that the matter has been elevated to one of great urgency, that while we have been debating it the Minister who is in charge of the Bill, according to the Notice Paper, has not even been within the precincts of the Senate. He certainly has not been ready to take over the handling of the Bill in the event of the Government succeeding in gagging the debate on the motion moved by  Senator Withers.  So, I find it difficult to appreciate the point of order that was taken by  Senator Steele  Hall, who, when he was playing the maverick role in this chamber in 1973 and 1974, adopted an entirely different approach. 
-One must question the motives of those who take points of order and those who seek to move certain motions when the Minister himself is not present to put the Bill before the Senate for consideration.  Senator Hall,  or other senators on the Government side, may well take the view that there is no relationship, but that is their interpretation; it is not ours. We see a relationship between the attempt to expedite the business of the Senate - 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr President,  but that does not convince me any more than it convinces the Government's speakers. I have a point of view that is different. I accept your ruling that that is the way you see it. It is not the way I see it, or the way my Party sees it, but I bow to your ruling that you are of the view that there is no relationship between the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Amendment Bill 1977 and the proposals of the Government to expedite the business of this chamber. Whatever else may be said about it, we are quite happy to debate the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Amendment Bill, but will use what forms we have available to express our opposition to an expedition resolution and other resolutions which have as their aim an attempt to hurry up the business of the Senate by extending the sitting for an extra day. 
-I do not want to speak at any great length. I wish merely to join with other members of the Opposition in supporting the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill. However, the debate affords me the opportunity to say a few words about some of the principles which are contained in the Bill as they relate and as I believe they should relate to members of Parliament. Since the establishment of the Remuneration Tribunal we have seen a much more ready acceptance of the principle that those who hold public office are entitled to an adequate remuneration, travelling allowance and conditions. In fact in recent times we have seen some improvement in that direction. I think it has to be said that the Remuneration Tribunal has been rather tolerant and generous in its attitude to the office holders who are covered by this legislation, as indeed it has been in regard to members of the Australian Parliament. My purpose in entering the debate is to draw attention to the fact that the staff of the office holders covered by this Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill enjoy facilities much greater than those enjoyed by the staff of members of the Parliament. This is a matter to which I ask the Government to give some consideration. 
Over the last couple of years I have made submissions to the Tribunal on behalf of the staff of members of Parliament, as I have direct to the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and to the Public Service Board. Not a great deal of progress has been made, in the sense that there has not been a complete recognition of what I believe should be achieved. In other words, I am saying that the staff of the office holders who are covered by this Bill enjoy facilities better and more generous than those enjoyed by the staff of members of the Parliament. That is a deficiency in the system. When one looks at the areas of responsibility, I do not think it can be said that the staff working for members of the judiciary who are covered by this Bill should enjoy better privileges, pay and conditions than the people we employ. To that extent I have been waging a letter war with the Tribunal and with the Public Service Board. 
I indicate to the Minister that I was somewhat critical of the Public Service Board for not dealing with the submission that I made very early this year. I had cause to write to the Board, suggesting that it was somewhat recreant to its responsibilities in not replying to my correspondence other than by acknowledging it. I am pleased to say that this week I received a letter which I think ought to receive the consideration of Government senators. I say this because I am aware of the statement that was made in this place some time ago by  Senator Baume.(  Quorum formed).  I think the letter from the Public Service Board is of some interest and because it is related to the matters which we are debating in this Bill, which deals with the Remuneration Tribunal, I believe that I ought to make some reference to it. The letter states: 
The position of electorate staff - 
This relates to members of the House of Representatives and the Senate- as well as the related matters raised by you, have been under consideration in this office - 
That is the Public Service Board- for some time. 
This area is complex and varied, as indicated by you in your submission to the Remuneration Tribunal, and in a series of detailed parliamentary questions, replies to which appeared in House of Representatives Weekly  Hansard  No. 1 1, 1977 at pages 2543, 2568-9. In particular, these parliamentary questions pointed out that the area is one of shared responsibility for staff of Members of Parliament, by the Government, the Remuneration Tribunal, the Department of Administrative Services and the Board. 
I think it is because we are dealing with an area in which several government agencies have part responsibility that we have not been able to make much progress in respect of our staff. The Board 's letter continues: 
With regard to your proposal for an additional staff member to be located in the Parliamentary office - 
That is here in Canberra-  the Remuneration Tribunal was satisfied that there is a prima facie case for a backbencher to have one member of staff in Canberra, one in his electorate, and one additional staff member who may be located in either place from time to time. However, consideration of this matter was deferred until the accommodation constraints at Parliament House are overcome. 
The letter goes on to refer to the entitlements which have recently been granted in respect of staff movements to and from Canberra and the acceptance of the principle of a daily allowance. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document which has just been handed to me. I understand that it is part of a submission which was given to one of the Senate Estimates Committees. The document sets out the allocation of space in square feet in Parliament House. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the legislation on industrial relations passed by the House of Representatives yesterday, and I ask the Minister. Were the provisions relating to the de-registration of trade unions, the provisions relating to demarcation disputes and the provisions relating to actions under section 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, that is, the section dealing with ballots and rights of members- matters covered by this legislationdiscussed in detail at the National Labour Consultative Council? 
The Senate is debating a most complex piece of legislation. It is interesting that every time we deal with matters relating to the trade union movement and the working people of this country, we are denied any effective opportunity for discussion. Today we are unable to do more than register a protest against the limited time that is available to us to discuss a Bill which has very widespread ramifications. It has already been said, so I will not press the point, that power does not reside in the trade union movement.  Senator Melzer  has indicated very clearly where the real power exists in this country. It is to be found in the big corporations, areas of the judiciary and other places where the real decisions about the economy are made. It is interesting that we never have legislation dealing with the role that capital might play in this country or, if we do, certainly it is never presented with such short notice as we have had for discussion of this legislation. I do not believe that a few hours is sufficient to canvass adequately this very important legislation. 
The historic facts are that for two centuries the conservative elements in the community have sought in one way or another to contain the trade union movement. In fact the very history of our country is related to the attempts by those who produce the wealth, those who use their hands, to establish fundamental rights to sell their labour for a reasonable rate of pay. The class composition of this Senate is not without significance. With one or two exceptions honourable senators opposite fall into the categories of estate agents, businessmen, lawyers, company directors, graziers, doctors and so on, and they always join in unison the chorus attacking those who only want wage justice and who have submitted themselves to the independent arbitration process to achieve some relative share of the wealth that is produced in this country. 
I find the contribution by Government senators today incoherent and confused. For example,  Senator Hall  made a very emotional contribution. Clearly he is trying to win from the Liberal Party his passport to pre-selection in South Australia. He says that the rank and file, the people at the grass roots and in the workshops, have too much power; that they are the people who are causing the trouble. He said that a handful of people in many places in the work force throughout Australia are causing the problem and therefore legislation should be brought down to deal with them. Yet  Senator Young,  and he is joined by even  Mr Fraser  and other leaders of his Party, says there is too much power in the hands of the elected trade union officials. 
The plain facts in respect of the Latrobe Valley despute are that  Mr Halfpenny,  the Victorian official of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, finds himself in difficulty when he tries to suggest to workers in the Latrobe Valley certain courses of action in respect of the dispute there. In fact this is the grass roots organisation. The people at the level of the workshop are determining what action they want to take. This is freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom to elect their officials and to determine the course of action that should be taken in a particular industrial dispute. 
What clearly comes through in all of the debates on industrial matters in this place and in the other House is the complete and utter failure of the conservatives in the parliaments of this country to understand industrial issues and the trade union movement. They have no comprehension of what it is like in the work shop, of the provocations that take place or of the need to maintain some parity in respect of their wages and salaries. Let me relate one experience to the Senate. The one and only job I had before I went to work in a family business was a job for four years with a company in Sydney. I came to be put in charge of one section of that organisation. Because of the Depression people needed jobs. One of the directors brought a relative to work in that firm. A short while later that person was elevated to a leading position in the company. The girls in that factory who had never belonged to a trade union came to me for advice because they knew of my interest in trade unions and in the political movement. They joined a union and went on strike in order to protest not because the girl had a job but because she was elevated to a senior position above girls who had worked there for some 20 or 30 years and had much more experience and competence in the production line in the factory. The only course of action that was left to those girls was to withdraw their labour. If we look at what strikes are about we find the reason is that people believe they have a grievance and so they withdraw their labour. That is what a strike is about. That is the only course of action available to them. 
Invariably the only steps available are for the union leadership to take the matter up with the employer or it finally finds itself in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or in the State Conciliation Commissioners' jurisdiction. 
Let us take some random samples of how other people take courses of action which are independent and which militates against other people. Let us take  Senator Hall,  for example. When he disagreed with the attitude of his own Party in South Australia what did he do? He withdrew his labour from the Liberal Party and formed the Liberal Movement. He took the only course of action available to him by walking outside his Party and taking direct action. That is what a strike is about. What happened when a vacancy was caused in this place because of the death of  Senator Milliner?  What did  Mr BjelkePetersen  do? He took direct action and broke the convention that had been established for a number of years. What did the Senate do in respect of the Supply Bills? It went on strike and refused to consider or pass the Bills which was legitimately the responsibility of the Senate? We can talk about when the Labor Government brought in the Medibank legislation. What did the Australian Medical Association and doctors in this country do? They said they would not cooperate with the Government for the purposes of making the medibank scheme operate. They withdrew their labour. This course of action is available to people in order to express a point of view. There is nothing wrong with that particularly when it is done at the grass roots level. 
Let me give some examples in respect of my State of New South Wales. In the last four or five months strikes have occurred in the Australian Workers Union, the Storemen and Packers Union, the Shop Assistants Union, the Transport Workers Union, the Air Controllers Association, the Pilots Association, the clerks who work on the Sydney Waterfront and the Electrical Trades Union. Not one of those unions has taken the action because of militancy or communist influence. I would venture to say that we would be battling to find a communist in those unions, least of all a communist occupying a position of influence. Yet those are the unions in which the rank and file members have exercised their democratic rights by going on strike, in some cases after having availed themselves of the only opportunity to seek some for of justification and negotiation in respect of the matters before them. 
If we are concerned about industrial relations, I suggest that honourable senators opposite should take some advice from one of the principal proponents of industrial activity in this country,  Mr Hawke.  There is no point honourable senators opposite smirking and deriding  Mr Hawke  every time his name is used. If they knew the process of the industrial scene they would not suggest that he could take over the air controllers strike. That organisation is not even a member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. It does not fall within the ACTU's purview. The same applies to many of the other industrial disputes that develop. The very organisation of the trade union movement prohibits  Mr Hawke  entering a dispute unless he is requested to do so. The other principal proponent is  Mr Polites.  He represents the other arm of the wages and employment situation. It seems as though he talks to a blank wall when one hears the comments that are made by honourable senators opposite in this debate. The other day  Mr Polites,  the Executive Officer of the Australian Council of Employers Federation addressed the National Press Club. He enjoys the support of all the employer organisations in this country. I know that he expresses the view of dozens of employer representatives who have spoken to me over a period about their concern at the provocative actions that have been taken by this Government. He said: 
Industrial disputes could not be solved by governments fiddling with legislation in Parliament. Deregistration of unions could be useful in bringing persons to their senses. 
He did not think this legislation would have any effect on the dispute in Victoria. He appealed to the federal authorities. He appealed to his own side to get out of industrial relations. He said. 
I don't think industrial relations should be a partypolitical plaything. 
Of course we all know to what  Mr Polites  is referring. We know that during the whole of 1977 polls have shown an increasing disenchantment with the Liberal Party, and that there is a swing back in support of the Labor Party. Therefore  Mr Fraser  and his cohorts have sought in every possible way to manufacture some issue upon which to have an election.  Mr Polites  says: 
I think the only way we'll get out is if the unions and ourselves come to terms, or if both political parties can come to an understanding to get out and stay out. It would be better if they would. Our system of conciliation and arbitration is not responsible for strikes. If the incidence of strikes is any criterion, then the industrial relations system of almost every Western democracy has broken down. 
That coming from  Mr Polite"  ought to be a warning to this Government that it will shortly have not only the united voice of the trade union movement and the Labor Party but also the united voice of employer organisations telling the Government that this is not the way to get industrial peace, that this is not the way to get the Australian economy going. The Government will be sorry the day that the Parliament passes this sort of legislation and seeks to have it proclaimed. It will not achieve the objective which it so simply believes can be achieved by the passing of legislation in a very hasty way without adequate public or parliamentary debate. 
-My question is directed  to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What progress, if any, has been made by the Government in discussions with the Japanese authorities on the question of access for Australian beef to the Japanese domestic market? 
I move: 
That, in the opinion ofthe Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: the serious economic uncertainty caused by the Prime Minister's election manoeuvring'. 
In moving this motion the Opposition wants to place on record its concern at the continuing debate- there is a lack of debate in some areasabout the election manoeuvring that has characterised parliamentary life since the beginning of the spring session of the Parliament. The constant speculation has unnerved the business community. It has created a degree of uncertainty throughout the land. It flows in the wrong direction if we are to achieve what are claimed to be the strategies of this Government, that is to bring about business confidence and stability in the Australian economy. No one could say that we are in a period of stability, that there is any long term planning by this Government or that there is any justification for a fourth election in five years. This all adds up to the fact that in this country there is some concern about the inability of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to make up his mind. This situation has reached the stage of absurdity and stupidity. 
The Fraser Government came into power on the promise that it would give to the business fraternity a sense of confidence and security which would enable increases in consumer spending and capital investment and some stimulation in the private sector. The whole thrust of the election policies put forward by the Liberal and National Country Parties was to that effect. Anybody who voted in 1975 for those policies and for the Government did so under the impression that economic recovery was a priority, that it was imminent, that real wages would increase, that industrial disputation would decline and that our international financial standing would increase substantially. We are entitled to say two-thirds of the way through the normal three-year term of office that those objectives have not been realised. It was  Mr Fraser  himself who said when he was undermining confidence in the then Liberal Party leader,  Mr Snedden,  that a government was elected for three years and that it was entitled to serve its three-year term in office. 
When he came into office he said- he was echoed by  Mr Lynch-  that the Government needed three years to rectify the economy. Yet, since the beginning of this parliamentary session we have had nothing but innuendoes, rumours, uncertainties and the lack of confidence that flows from all those factors. The needed improvements that I referred to- in regard to economic recovery, wages and industrial disputationhave not occurred. The Australian economy is ridden with the worst unemployment since the Depression. Although there has been a decline in the quarterly consumer price index I think it is true to say that one swallow does not make a summer, that one indicator suggesting some improvement does not mean that we have, as I will seek to show, an improvement also in business confidence. On the basis of the Commonwealth Statistician's figures, the actual rate of inflation, on a September to September basis, up to the last quarter was 13.1 per cent. This hardly corroborates the Prime Minister's view, as supported by his Little  Sir Echo  Treasurer, that the economy is on the mend. In addition, we find that eminent banks such as Hill Samuel Australia Ltd have openly criticised the Government for causing an outflow of capital funds and having exacerbated the necessity to borrow heavily overseas. 
The reason why I use such sources of information as, for example, the  London Times  and other newspapers to substantiate the view that I express is that one cannot say of any of them that they have a bias against this Government, or the Australian Labor Party, which the Prime Minister criticised for, as he termed it, attempting to put the country into hock. It is one of the proud achievements of our party that, despite much criticism, it did not put this country into hock. It introduced substantial reforms which gave the ordinary wage earner the hope of increased purchasing power and an improvement in real wages. 
In total now, however, what has happened? This Government has borrowed in excess of $3,00Om in its first two years of office- yet it seeks to criticise the attempts of the Whitlam 
Administration to borrow a similar amount in the three years that it was in office. This Government has created a substantial liability overseas for future years, and has failed to instil confidence in the business community. Though some of the indicators are showing improvement, this improvement is only marginal. There has been an increase in capital investment, but that has been concentrated mainly in the mining industry, disguising the fact that there are large proportions of primary, secondary and tertiary industry at the point of despair. Small businesses are quickly going bankrupt. That, of course, is what has prompted the Government to take special steps to assist the small business community. Many primary producers are seriously considering applying for social security payments and only 78 per cent of average manufacturing capacity is being utilised. Even the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates project for 1977-78, in respect to the rural sector, a real decline in income of some 16 per cent. That on top of the decline of some 12 per cent in the previous year! 
There was some chance that this hiccup type of recovery may have developed into a substantial trend if the Government had adopted Labor's recommendations for economic recovery and, more importantly, the Prime Minister had decided to end the rampant speculation about the date of an election. Many business leaders, as well as numbers of people within the Liberal Party, have clearly stated that the Prime Minister should have made his intentions clear. Even the State branches of the Liberal Party are on record as having misgivings about the uncertainties that his actions have created. What a travesty it is of the operation of the democratic process when one man can hold such a secret in his hands- to the extent that even when he canvasses his own Ministers he apparently receives a response which does not enable him to make up his mind. What sort of parliamentary process is it that enables this one man to determine whether or not we shall have an election, whether or not we shall have a settling down period in the Australian economy? 
If we go through the editorials in all the major metropolitan daily newspapers- which lean traditionally towards the Liberal and Country partieswe find increasing criticism of the Prime Minister's approach to this whole matter. It is pertinent to look at a number of these, because almost no one in the Australian community is supporting the holding of an early election. If so, who are they other than the Government parties; who are they outside of the Prime Minister's colleagues? What does the  Canberra Times  of 1 8 October have to say? It says: 

 Mr Fraser has no valid excuse for not putting an end to the speculation. Exploiting a speculative political advantage is not a sufficient excuse to justify the cost in money and disruption of Government functions and of business activity which another election now would entail. 
On 12 October the Melbourne  Age  said in an editorial: 
Election jitters are a damaging distraction to the country and  Mr Fraser  and his Cabinet colleagues- by their hints and evasions- are doing as much as anyone to fan the rumours. The Prime Minister alone has the power to kill those rumours once and for all. 
We all know that he has refused to do this; that he went on television after a dramatic exercise at his farm at Nareen and said: 'We have still got two options'. How could anyone suggest that this sort of uncertainty would contribute to what is supposedly the strategy of this Government? On 1 1 October the  Australian Financial Review  had this to say: 
To suggest that an election is necessary when a government's moves are challenged by significant elements in the community is either the refuge of weak and uncertain leadership or the desperation of election mania. 
Most importantly, the  Financial Review  says further: 
The electorate is treated to Ministers wandering around like rag and bone men scouring for election finds, their perceptions and decisions warped by electioneering necessities. 
Yesterday the same newspaper said: 
We have had an extended period of pre-election jitters, which cannot be totally unrelated to the fact that the capital account of the balance of payments has remained weak despite the shoring up program of foreign borrowing and standby facilities. 
One could go on and talk of what was in the  Age,  the  Courier-Mail,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  of today's date, the Launceston  Examiner  and the Adelaide  Advertiser.  They have all carried similar editorials. 
The mere fact that these editorials have appeared and reappeared, and have been reinforced by the errors and omissions of the Government, has created incredible business uncertainty. It has led to smaller businessmen, to companies, to manufacturing industries and to primary producers deferring investment decisions. Why would they not do so, if they believed that a change of government would change the emphasis here or there? Only the large mining companies and one or two other enterprises looking to long term exploitation of Australia's resources have made new investments in recent times. The Government could hardly claim that this represents an overall air of confidence and a feeling that the vast savings bank deposits that are locked up against the prospect of a further depression could be released. 
The Prime Minister should assume the statesmanlike pose to which he so often pretends, and make a clear, unequivocal statement about what is proposed; but, of course, we are not going to get that from him or from this dishonest Government. We are not going to get it from a hotchpotch Prime Minister who reacts to situations from day to day as they occur, who refuses to set about the task of reorganising the economy and making the decisions that are necessary to get regenerative processes under way. 
Just to look at one or two other examples that one could give, the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales survey of industrial trends of September 1977- which is less than one month oldconducted a survey of business houses, the traditional supporters of the Liberal Party, asking the question: 'Do you find it now harder, easier or the same as it was three months ago to get finance?' Some 82 per cent answered 'The same', some 9 per cent answered 'Harder'. Interestingly enough, the figures for Queensland totalled not 9 1 per cent but 96 per cent, so things cannot be too good in Bjelke-Petersen land. 
If one considers the survey results in regard to capital expenditure on buildings one finds that 74 per cent of businesses surveyed had some question as to whether in the coming 12 months it would be greater, the same or less than in the previous year. The survey also took into consideration the employment situation. The businesses surveyed were asked whether they thought there would be an increase in employment opportunities. Eighty-four per cent of those surveyed said that the situation is going to be either the same or worse. It is interesting to note that the figure for Queensland was 9 1 per cent. If one compares the figures for Queensland with those for the rest of Australia one can only come to the conclusion that the situation in Queensland is lagging considerably behind that in the rest of Australia. Yet this Government has the audacity to suggest that the economy is picking up. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have been saying that the economy is picking up. The Ministers in the Senate also have been saying it in recent days in replying to questions asked of them. 
If the economy is picking up, why have a premature election? If things will be better in 1978, why not let the House of Representatives serve its full term of office? I think the Australian 
Labor Party would support the general proposition for the two Houses of Parliament to be brought into line, in accordance with the majority opinion expressed in the referendum. We take the view that May would represent a reasonable compromise in this area. We take the view that this would not compromise the present Governor-General or the future GovernorGeneral. If the Government is concerned about the Australian economy having a chance to pick up, we would seriously suggest to it that the Prime Minister should put an end to speculation and take the necessary steps to carry out the mandate that the Government was overwhelmingly given in 1 975 to get our economy back onto an even keel. 
The Opposition is prepared to support the Bill that is before the Senate, principally because we understand that the initiative and the suggestions for the imposition of the levy and for a research program has come from the farming community itself. I think it has become obvious to the Government as well as to the farming community generally that the production of oilseeds is now to be regarded as an important industry. In many rural areas in the eastern States and in the south west of Western Australia, it has become a significant supplement to wheat income and has provided diversity in general farm activities. As we have noticed from some of the changes that have taken place in the rural sector in recent years, many farmers have moved into areas of diversification, and the oilseed industry is an important new industry that has developed. It is now producing some $40m worth of revenue for the farming community. When we take into consideration that we still have to import half of our needs, it is clear that the legislation can fulfil a very important adjunct to activity in the farming communities. A wide range of oilseeds is being produced - 
We are aware that it is a cognate debate and consequently we are dealing with the principal Bill and with the Bill to implement the levy. A wide range of oilseeds is being produced in Australia, the more common ones being linseed, rapeseed, safflower and sunflower. Production of the various oilseeds has fluctuated as a consequence of seasonal conditions and variations in the prices of wheat, livestock and other products. Of course it has become an important alternate industry to those geographical areas of Australia where the industry is flourishing and where there is potential for further growth. I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that some research has been undertaken by various State departments of agriculture but until now there has been no concerted national program. So, the research proposals that we are considering will follow somewhat similarly to those which have been developed in regard to the wheat industry research program which of course has been administered conjointly by the Commonwealth and the State for some years. The Opposition supports the principle of the proposals put forward in the Bill and believes that there is a potential that should be developed. This potential is significant and every assistance should be given to ensure that Australian producers are technically competitive with their counterparts in Canada, the United States and Europe. There are prospects of improving the sales of oilseed and oilseed products to countries such as Japan, but at present the Canadians have a certain edge on us in this respect. They have certain technical advantages which result in some price differentials. Arising from this legislation and the experience that will flow from it, the hope is that Australia will be placed in a much more competitive position. 
The Opposition believes it is important that there is some form of co-ordinated research in the industry and that the most equitable way of financing that research into the production side is for it to be raised by a levy on the production of oilseed. Because ofthe diversity of other authorities and the fact that there is no single marketing organisation equivalent to the Australian Wheat Board, the collection of the levy poses some administrative difficulties. The Opposition is of the view that the procedures set out in this legislation, while having some faults, are the most administratively simple which are available. We assume therefore, arising from that fact, that the collection procedures will be kept under constant review and that in the event of deficiencies arising, amending legislation will be introduced. In other words, to some extent we will have to feel our way in regard to how the levy is applied. 
The Opposition, however, does have some concern about the formation of Federal and State research committees to administer the research program. The structure, apparently, is to be similar to that of the State wheat research committees which are dominated by member organisations affiliated with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. While it is difficult to judge specifically the operation of the State research committees, I think it is interesting to note that Professor Keith Campbell, Professor of Agricultural Economics at the University of Sydney, has been particularly critical of the way in which State committees allocated funds and has indicated that anybody seeking research funds but who has been critical of the way in which wheat research is handled is unlikely to receive an allocation of research funds. He quotes his own personal experiences of several years ago. 
My concern in one which can in part be handled by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  but I feel that the real remedy rests with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The membership of the Federation is not entirely balanced in that there are no representatives of the Pastoralists and Graziers Association of Western Australia, the Stock Owners of South Australia, the Graziers Association of Victoria and the United Graziers Association of Queensland. While these organisations are not as numerically large as the organisations now affiliated with the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, their members do have a large interest in oilseed production and will be paying a substantial part of the levy proceeds. 
On the basis of equity therefore it would seem appropriate for the Minister to suggest that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation might recommend to him persons for appointment to the State committees for the administration of the oilseed research funds who come from the organisation I have just mentioned. It is important that the research program should be innovative and that the best expertise should be available. I will not go so far as to suggest that the existing composition of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation is such that it cannot provide a good cross section of persons involved with the oilseed industry. But, on the other hand, I am aware that there are some well known innovators who could make a substantial contribution but who are outside the membership of organisations of the AWF. These are the only reservations that the Opposition has about the Bills. We hope that the end result of raising the levy and initiating research is to the advantage of the Austraiian oilseed industry, and will give further impetus to the development of this industry in Australia. We hope that the co-operation essential to the success of the scheme will be forthcoming from both State and Commonwealth authorities. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  suggested that, in retaliation for the Japanese Government's refusal to increase beef imports into Japan, Australia should toughen its stand on fishing rights within Australian waters? Is it not true that the  Deputy  Prime Minister has rebuked  Mr Sinclair  on the issue and has suggested that negotiation is the best way of improving our current beef quota to Japan? Can the Minister indicate what view prevails in the Government? Is it the view of the  Deputy  Prime Minister or the view of the Minister for Primary Industry? 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the report of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations on Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation, July 1977, p 197, states that, in respect of stenographers/secretaries: 
With the exception of new business college graduates the demand for less experienced and less skilled people in Sydney is in balance with the supply.' 
Business College graduates are exactly what the market wants and employers demand. 
In one of the few fields of employment shown by the report to be under-supplied, the Government is effectively reducing the ability of business colleges to train enough secretaries and stenographers for the positions which are available. 
The sixteen technical colleges in the Metropolitan area of Sydney which accommodate 3220 students in day secretarial studies do not have the capacity to accommodate more than 6 per cent of the 2435 students at non-State business colleges in the same area who will be disadvantaged by the Government's recent decision to withdraw fees subsidies and living allowances from the end of 1 977. 1977 School leavers who wish to undertake a course in Secretarial Studies and thus ensure they obtain a worthwhile position of employment on graduation are being forced to pay fees of the order of $1400 for the year and also to forgo TEAS living allowances. 
The Government's decision is unfair, unjust, discriminatory, unreasonable and capricious. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to undertake a thorough review of the position of non-State business colleges, guarantee interim funding forthwith and reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As this petition exceeds 250 words in length, I do not propose to ask that it be read. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements made by  Sir Samuel  Burston of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Association suggesting that protection of secondary industry is costing the average farmer more than $1 1,000 per farm per year? In view of the Prime Minister's repeated assertions, which are factually sound, that nearly half of Australian farmers are receiving less than $5,000 per annum, can the Minister advise the Senate whether the exaggerated claim of  Sir Samual  Burston can be substantiated? Is it not a fact that protection of Australian industry is an integral part of government policy? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer aware that in December 1975, the month the Government came to power, interest rates charged by the banks for farm development were 9.9 per cent? Does the Government recognise that in three subsequent upward hikes interest rates for the rural sector have risen to 10.5 per cent? How does the Government reconcile that increase in rural lending with the oft stated promise made during 1976 by the Government, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer that interest rates would fall? Can the Minister say whether the Australian Rural Bank will bring about a fall in interest rates for the farming community? 
I present the following petition from 233 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Recognise that the present situation regarding the approval of nursing home accommodation for the aged in the Sutherland Shire Area is at present totally inadequate. 
Take steps to alleviate this position and make finance available for the building of nursing home accommodation in this Shire to provide beds when the necessity for one arises. 
Look into the situation of hardship caused by the cost to pensioners and their families who have to meet the difference between fees charged by some nursing homes and the pensions and subsidies available to offset these. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens (students, parents, teachers) of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision by the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of Non-State Tertiary Institutions is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to a serious worsening of the current employment situation, particularly school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Federal Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The Australian Rural Bank Bill 1977 is now before the Senate and I move the following amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time': 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate asserts that: 
1 ) The Bill dishonours the Prime Minister's November 1975 election promise, repeated as late as 1 1 September 1977, to establish a Rural Bank under a statutory corporation; 
The Bill does not comply with the policies of farmer organisations for a specialist financial institution freed from 'lender of last resort' restrictions; and 
The Act should be substantially amended in the next session of Parliament to provide direct lending facilities through a division of the Commonwealth Development Bank to consolidate rural debt, free of lender of last resort' restrictions'. 
The Senate is required to give consideration to three Bills relating to the apple and pear industry. I think it has been conceded that they will be dealt with in a cognate debate. On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
That all words after 'that' be left out and the following words be inserted in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn with a view to bringing forward a Bill which- 
Increases the rate of stabilisation payments to $3.00 per box of apples and $1.20 per box of pears; and /or 
Provides supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and provides assistance directly to individual fruit growers till such times as a coherent planned policy, by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined '. 
Copies of the amendment are in the process of being circulated to honourable senators. Since this Government came to power it has become the practice in the Senate on the last day of sitting of all sessions of the Parliament to debate Bills dealing with primary industry. It strikes me as a fair comment that the problems associated with Australian agriculture are receiving very little priority. In fact, they are always at the bottom of the legislative list. I always find myself on the last day of a parliamentary sitting commenting upon the fact that Bills are not receiving sufficient consideration by the Senate and that the Government obviously looks on the problem of Australian agriculture as one of the low priority jobs. 
We are all aware of the fact that there are grave difficulties facing practically every sector of the rural industry. The problems associated with the apple and pear industry have been with us for the whole of the 1970s. We are required from year to year to deal with matters affecting the industry in the form of some stabilisation of the industry itself.  Senator Cotton  is handling these Bills. I am reminded that on a number of occasions he has made statements in the Senate and elsewhere that the industry itself has to take the measures to put its own house in order. That is leaving the Government out of the picture and accepting the principle that sectors of the industry should in some way or other in their diversity and different geographical locations come together in some coherence and order and take the necessary steps to resolve the problems they face. That is pie in the sky. We believe that governments have an obligation to give leadership, take initiatives and bring in the sort of legislative processes to which the industry can respond. 
Again, we find ourselves in a critical state of mind in relation to this industry. We do not disagree with the general steps outlined but we believe that the proposed assistance is not adequate and that more needs to be done by the Government. It is clear that if the Government is really sincere about helping Australian agriculture it should be giving a lot more time and attention to the diversification of problems which are obviously occurring not only within the industry but also within the regions of the industry. There are specific problems in the apple and pear industry relating to the apples produced in Tasmania. Tasmania produces two-thirds of the total export trade. Therefore whatever happens on overseas markets has an importance relevance to those whose livelihood, investment and future are tied up with stabilising the industry. 
The purposes of the first Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill was to bring about some stability. That type of ad hoc legislation has been continued in the subsequent seven years. It is not difficult to say that the restructuring of the industry is continuing. But there has been a tendency by many people involved in agriculture in Australia to diversify their interest from the growing of fruit to other forms of agricultural activity. Because of the general nature of the problem facing agriculture, that is not a very palatable alternative nor is it a profitable alternative. Of course, when we have changes in the export market for apples and pears, then the industry faces a very serious problem. 
I was somewhat surprised to read of the debate that took place in the other place because when my colleague  Mr Scholes  moved the amendment which I am suggesting should be considered by the Senate today, he was berated by the Tasmanian members, all of whom are up for election and, therefore, whom one would have expected to have shown a bit more interest in the problems facing the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. The last time the Senate dealt with this matter it actually carried an amendment, with the support of the Tasmanian senators, in which concern was expressed about the inability of the industry to reach a stable position. The Government has not taken that into consideration. It has turned its back on that and we find Tasmanian members of the House of Representatives, who are all up for election and whom one would expect to be much more interested in the plight of the industry, making statements that the support is not required. I find it difficult to appreciate how they can come to that conclusion. Within the second reading speech and in the representations that have been made to the Labor Party by the industry in Tasmania the point is made. In a telegram sent to me the executive director of the State Marketing Authority,  Mr Windas  Smith stated, in part: 
The best way to overcome this problem is to increase Commonwealth contribution to supplementary support scheme say $3 for each $ 1 from State sources. 
That is precisely what the Opposition believes should be adopted in this place. The Opposition proposes therefore to move an amendment to that effect. I cannot understand the illogical thinking of those Liberal Party or National Country Party Members of the House of Representatives who take the view that there is not a problem in the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. As recently as less than a month ago newspapers circulating in Tasmania have drawn attention to the problem. I cannot share the enthusiasm, although I concede that there has been some minor improvement, that has been expressed in the other place that the recurring stabilisation schemes are doing anything substantial to alter the very unsatisfactory state of income of those who have investment and activities related to the growing of apples and pears. 
Clearly, the Government has not taken any steps to extend or promote employment retraining schemes for apple and pear orchardists. If we are going to talk about restructuring the industry we must have a plan of what we are going to do with those people who wish to leave the industry. As honourable senators know, something like 40 per cent of those in the industry have left it in recent years. They go to the cities or to some other location and there are no effective steps to retrain them. No one can tell me what they are to do with their time and their skills. Surely this comes within the purview of government responsibility. If people are to be encouraged to leave agriculturethat has been the basis of all the rural readjustment schemes- I want someone on the Government side to tell us what we are to do with the people. We are supposed to be concerned about people. We are supposed to be concerned about their economic future. We are supposed to be concerned about their capacity to play a meaningful part in the economy of this country yet there is no training scheme adequate to train these people who have geographic problems, location problems, who cannot be readily absorbed from that particular industry to which I am referring, the apple and pear industry- it applies equally to other readjustment schemesinto some other form of industrial or rural activity. 
That surely has to be recognised as part of the responsibilities of government. I cannot accept the philosophical position that Government supporters take that the private sector can stand on its own two feet and that the individual should be making his own decisions. The purpose of government is to lend its resources and experience, its assistance to those who, for a whole variety of reasons, find that they are unable to continue in the ways they had previously operated. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was drawing attention to the debate on this legislation in the other place. I find it difficult to appreciate the reasoning behind the following statement made by one Government supporter in that debate: 
As I said, this year the support is not required; the growers do not need it. It is not of much use giving the growers the money if they cannot use it. 
That statement seems to me to indicate that Tasmanian members have no appreciation of the problem not only in their own State but also in the rest of the industry throughout Australia. 
There are certain differences in the industry in different States. The Opposition's amendment does not distinguish between States. It might be argued that in some States the problem is more acute. Nevertheless, I do not believe that the sort of assistance proposed in the amendment could be said to be a waste of public funds. On every fair assessment of the state of the industry, the assistance is needed. 
The Opposition has moved its amendment, recognising the plight of the export section of the apple and pear industry throughout Australia which requires this assistance. Therefore, I think we are entitled to say that Government supporters from Tasmania are out of touch with reality, out of touch with the needs of the industry and out of touch with the economic problems that face the industry. I think we are entitled also to say that the Government has done precious little to reduce the cost of distribution and shipping. As a consequence, cost increases have eaten into the return to the apple and pear grower. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show a rate of inflation of 13.1 per cent for the year ended September 1977. That inflation flows right through the cost structure. The problems to which I have referred in the last two debates concerning apple and pear stabilisation need to be examined carefully by the Government. 
The Opposition believes that the $3 a box for apples and the $1.20 a box for pears are necessary to keep the apple and pear growers alive until a Labor government is elected and effective restructuring arrangements are introduced. In those circumstances we are of the view that the Senate ought to look seriously at our proposition, as it did on the last occasion when we were able to prevail upon a sufficient number of Government senators to support a proposal that the Government have a fresh look at this industry. We did so not because we wanted to alter the Government's legislation but because we felt that a mere repetition of previous assistance measures did not go to the heart of the problem, did not really recognise the economic factors, did not recognise the human factors and did not recognise that the industry requires much more encouragement and assistance from the Australian Government. 
So often when people talk about assistance to the various industries of this country they tend to place some of the blame on the States. We have heard a lot about the much vaunted federalism policy. It has been said that, because of that policy, the States are in a position to come to the aid of different sectors pf industry. If that is to be the way in which federalism works, it negates the whole principle. Export matters are within the province of the Federal Government and therefore Federal Government assistance should be the principal component of assistance to the apple and pear industry. In the light of those circumstances and recognising that time does not permit a full debate on this issue, I urge the Senate to support my amendment and to give serious consideration to the propositions which the Opposition has put before it. 
These two measures to which the Senate is giving consideration are important pieces of legislation. The Labor Party does not propose to oppose the schemes which the Government is putting before the Senate for its deliberation. 
The measures are proposed in order to give effect to the Government's package of assistance to the beef cattle industry, assistance that one must say is somewhat belated. It has been introduced only since it has been apparent to anyone associated with agriculture that the beef industry is in a state of acute crisis, desperation and near-bankruptcy; that the vast majority in the industry, especially in Queensland, because of its dependence on the export market, are struggling to survive. In various other parts of Austrafia the beef industry also is in such desperate straits that there is need for Government intervention and assistance. It is worth while to bring to the attention of the Senate the fact that the proposed assistance came not only after the plight of the industry was obvious but also after motions of no confidence had been moved against the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in several centres throughout Australia. 
I wish to refer particularly to the first such motion of no confidence which, in February of this year, was moved by the Farmers Union of Western Australia. That was to be followed by similar motions in other parts df Australia, more importantly that which was carried at the end of September last at the Cattlemen 's Union Conference in Toowoomba. As the plight of the beef producer has become more noticeable and acute we have seen develop a growing militancy among farmers in this industry. It is a shame that the Government moved only after the problem had reached such proportions that Government intervention provided the only way in which producers could be saved from economic ruin. 
That militancy among farmers is continuing to develop throughout Australia. Only today we heard that leading figures in the beef industry are considering running independent Country Party candidates in the forthcoming Federal election. When we look at what happened at the Toowoomba conference we know why this legislation is before the Senate. The Brigalow Lands Agreement legislation was first adopted in 1962.  Mr Fraser  has now become aware of the deficiencies and inadequacies of the representation that has been given primary industry by the Minister,  Mr Sinclair.  The motion of no confidence which was carried overwhelmingly, at the Toowoomba conference contrasts startingly with the rousing reception that was accorded  Mr Hawke  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
The honourable senator may laugh, but many farm industry leaders have expressed to me the wish that someone of the calibre of Bob Hawke would represent people in the agricultural areas of Australia. Obviously they feel the need for militant representation, which they are not getting now, to protect their interests. That proposition has over the last year been put to me consistently by farm leaders. I am only expressing their view that this Government has let them down; that they need a representative with the charisma and drive of Bob Hawke to lead them to the promised land that has not been reached under this Government. 
Honourable senators may be vexed to learn of these murmurings of dissent, that there is such dissidence in the farming community because the Government has failed it time and time again. I repeat it, it was not until the crisis had almost reached the point of no return that the Government acted. Of course, in Queensland that disenchantment will become apparent in the results of the election next weekend. 
We do not oppose the scheme because we realise that once the present state of desperation in the industry has been reached Government intervention and assistance is desirable, but we are of the view, and would hope the Government would accept it as constructive criticism, that if there were effective administration of the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act, which was passed by the Parliament almost a year ago there would be no need for additional legislation. That body was given the responsibility of dealing with this kind of difficulty. Clearly there are deficiencies within the administration of that Act. The measures are also restricted insofar as their impact is concerned, especially the proposal to defer payments by the brigalow land settlers in Queensland. It relates only to that area. I concede and the Opposition concedes that a very difficult situation exists in central and southwestern Queensland. But there are other areas in Australia that also are in a serious and parlous plight. The Government must surely accept some blame for its inability to extend the provisions applying in this case to those other disaster areas. 
The beef incentives payment provides for the payment of $10 a head with a limit of $2,000 to each beef cattle producer. That will do only one thing. It will see him over his current difficulties. It will not solve his problem. It will just keep him alive for a short period. The cost of the administration of this proposal will be high. For the beef cattle producers in extreme circumstances it will hardly touch the bottom of the barrel especially after the cost of mustering the cattle for spraying for disease treatment has been deducted. Supporters of the Government must accept that there are very serious limitations to this proposal that the Senate is discussing. 
I am sure that all members of the Senate will agree with me when I say that the problems of the beef industry will not be solved until more markets are found and the trade in export beef is increased. I know that there have been some positive achievements in this respect, but they have not been good enough. It was said in 1975 that if a Liberal-Country Party government were elected it would expand the areas of export, it would find new markets and it would solve the problems of denial of access to markets for our beef producers. That has not happened. It is easy to talk at election time about what one is going to do. In 1974, when we had problems with meat prices in Australia, we had  Mr Fraser, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  advising the beef producers of Australia, whose herds at that stage numbered 28 million, that they ought to get them up to around 40 million. Thank God they did not and that the size of the herds increased to only 32 million or 33 million. Every person who bought into the industry at that time, unless he has access to extraordinary resources, has found himself in a parlous financial position. 
The Government will say in this debate that it has done what can be done to obtain markets for beef, but I say that it has not done enough. Recently the British Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries,  Mr John  Silkin, visited Australia. He was here only two months ago. He said that there was no chance of the European Economic Community 's common agricultural policy being changed and no chance of Australia getting the considerably greater access that it needs to that market. The Government sent John Howard to Europe as Minister for Special Trade Negotiations. I think it has to be said that he has come back empty handed; that the door was closed in his face. He was quoted in the Australian newspapers as saying on his trip back to Australia several days ago that there are some prospects- that is about all that is being said- of getting access to markets overseas. That is not enough. We were told during the last election campaign that the present Government would get access to export markets. It has failed dismally to do that. 
The Government also promised to restructure the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. It has failed to do that. It has failed to make it a dynamic, vigorous marketing organisation. It has left that organisation with its hands tied behind its back, without the effective powers that are needed to increase the domestic consumption of meat and to allow it to become more active and competitive in world markets. We note that the Government belatedly has provided funds for the introduction of carcass classification. Those are matters which have been on the agenda for a number of years, as you will concede,  Mr President, 
The plight of the beef industry has been getting noticeably worse, and the industry leaders and those in the industry itself have constantly put forward proposals which at least would have provided some chance of improvement in the economics of the industry. Now we are asked to approve a very minor step, and we do that; but we suggest to the Government, as we have done time and time again, that if it will come forward with a scheme to alter drastically the whole structure of the industry, a scheme that will bring stability to the industry and provide funds and encouragement to enable it to survive, it will have the support of the Opposition. In those circumstances, the Opposition is not prepared to do more than offer constructive criticism and support for the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 18 October 1977: 
Has the Minister noted the remarks of Professor Brogan that a member of the staff of the Australian High Commission had approached him to act as an agent of the Joint Intelligence Organisation to collect information on Irian Jaya? If so, is it normal for public servants to act in such a capacity in friendly countries? 
What is the purpose of collecting information concerning Irian Jaya? 
Does this incident reveal that the Government is concerned by the activities of Indonesia in the region? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 answered a question relating to this matter in the House of Representatives on 20 October, 
and (3) It is a normal and internationally-accepted function of diplomatic officers to keep their governments informed of developments in, or relating to, the country of their accreditation, which may be of significance to the interests of their own country. The Austraiian Government has no cause for concern over the situation in Irian Jaya, but it is in Australia's interest that the Government remain informed about matters relating to developments in the region. 
Australian Forces in Malaysia  (Question No. 1493) 
My question deals with problems facing migrant workers who are unemployed and is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Does the Minister recognise that migrant workers face difficulty in comprehending the complexities of the work test, the restrictions on unemployment benefit, and the operation of the appeals system? Will the Minister, with her colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, put together a simplified account of procedures and penalties in different languages, as recommended in the Myers report? 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens and/or taxpayers of Australia, speaking for ourselves and on behalf of the many who cannot become citizens because of their inability to speak English, request the Senate to give immediate attention to the totally inadequate provision of English classes for migrants by the Australian Government. 
Our intention is to impress upon the House that inability to speak English means discrimination- discrimination in the field of employment, in education and in social and political life. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Has the Government created a new position known as the Director of Commonwealth Properties? If so, has anyone been appointed to it and what is the salary range? What is the nature of the appointment? Is it designed to streamline government acquisition of property or to reduce the increasing Commonwealth allocation of funds for rented and leased premises? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, relates to the question asked by  Senator Wriedt.  As the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has effectively reduced the purchasing power of wages and salaries which offsets to a large degree the Government's tax cuts, are we to understand that the Commission's national wage decision is actually working against Government policy? 
I support the amendment which was so ably moved by  Senator Wriedt  and which comments critically on the failure of the Government to deal adequately with the record levels of unemployment, the failure of the Government to deal with the serious uncertainty which exists in the Australian economy and the ignoring of the serious international recession which faces the world as well as on a number of other matters which were dealt with by  Senator Wriedt.  I agree that traditionally the Address-in-Reply debate gives honourable senators an opportunity to talk about problems generally, but what I have found most disappointing about this debate so far is that not one of the Government supporters has endeavoured to grapple with the grave problems which are besetting this country. In their desire to speak they have ignored the basic issues which are facing this country. One of those issues is the economic uncertainty and all that flows from that. 

 Senator Wheeldon put his finger upon the failure of the Governor-General's Speech to give any sort of lead in respect of foreign affairs. We can apply that criteria in respect of economic matters and the failure of Government supporters to grasp the nettle in that regard. As a consequence it has been left to the Opposition to point to the deficiencies which exist in the Governor-General's Speech and to contrast that Speech with the Speeches which were associated with the opening of the twenty-eighth and twentyninth Parliaments, one by  Her  Majesty and the other by the previous Governor-General. In relation to those Speeches supporters of the Government went on the record in both Houses of the Parliament as seeking to explain and defend the policies of their Government. 
It is a sad commentary that not one Government speaker to date has sought to defend the deficiencies in the Governor-General's Speech. It was a tedious speech. It was a dull speech. It was a speech which reiterated what was said in the Speech delivered some two years ago. Unfortunately, those Speeches have not contributed to the important public debate which ought to be taking place in this country about the state of the economy. We are lectured by Government supporters that we should forget the past and concern ourselves with the future, that we should never raise again the infamy of 1 1 November 1 975 and that we should not speak in the Parliament or elsewhere about the deceptive roleleaving aside the rights or wrongs of the matterwhich the former Governor-General played during that period. As the former Governor-General deceived not only the elected government but also his friends in the Labor movement, one can understand why from time to time very strongly voiced views are expressed by those members of Parliament who are rightly aggrieved about the actions of the Governor-General. 
We are asked to turn our thoughts forward. All I can say is that the contributions made by honourable senators on the Government side have not been very thoughtful in relation to meeting our problems, with one or two exceptions. One or two Government senators made contributions in a general sense which were interesting. For example, I found some compassion in the speech made by  Senator Missen  and some reasoning in the views he expressed about the issues he raised. I found some interest in the speech made by the new senator-  Senator Haines.  Importantly, she drew attention to the fact that this Government, in terms of numerical support, does not enjoy the majority support of the Australia people. If this Government relies entirely upon the general public as part of its general strategy to get the economy movingthat is, it expects consumer demands to increase, one is entitled to say that the Australian people are not responding. During the two years that this Government has been in office the real value of wages- the purchasing power of the general mass of people, the consumers- has been reduced by approximately $10 per week and savings are increasing. So I do not think we are entitled to say that this Government can rely automatically upon the support of the Australian people. 
Some honourable senators, including  Senator Davidson,  who was the previous  speaker,  have talked about the role of the Parliament. The very cynicism of this Government, as expressed in the Speech of the Governor-General, the very cynicism of  Senator Withers  and the very cynicism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are one reason why many people in Australia are disillusioned with the parliamentary system. I think it has to be recognised by those who claim to support parliamentary democracy that a very sizeable minority of Australians have lost faith in the Parliament as a place for genuine debate. Those honourable senators who have raised matters about the Parliament must surely be unhappy about the way in which the Parliament functions. What ideas are thrown into the melting pot in parliamentary debates? Very few ideas are taken up and debated in the way in which debates should take place. We are entitled to say that debates in this place have very little meaning unless the subject matter of the debates is grappled with fully. There is little evidence from the contributions made so far by Government senators that they have learnt very much about the events of the last few years. Certainly, not one honourable senator on the Government side has gone on to the offensive or developed any initiative about the economic issues which beset this country. Opening the thirty-first Parliament, just eight days ago, the Governor-General stated: 
My Government's resolve is strengthened by this decisive expression - 
He was referring to the results of the election-  of the people's conviction that the basic direction of the Government's policies reflects their aspirations and interests. 
If that is true the Government must have a very perverse view of the aspirations and interests of the Australian people because they are just not responding to all the blandishments of this Government. There is abundant evidence from intellectuals and from the community generally that there is not a great deal of confidence in the Parliament performing a proper function. What is the basic direction of the Government's policies? It is towards ultra-conservative monetary and fiscal policies of a type which have long since been rejected by other Western developed nations. These policies are leading to higher and higher unemployment. There are now 445,000 people out of work with every prospect of that figure rising in the future. 
When the present Prime Minister was the shadow minister for Labour and Industry some four years ago he berated the Australian Labor Party Government about unemployment and said that within a year or two about 400,000 people would be out of work. Little did we know at the time that the Labor Government would be overthrown in the way it was. Little did we appreciate that the man who made that comment would himself be presiding over a substantial increase in the numbers of unemployed, exceeding the figures of the Great Depression. Not only do we have such a large number of people out of work with every prospect of that figure rising but also we have the attendant waste of resources, social dislocation and misery. The Government's policies are leading towards reduced standards of living for the vast majority of Australians not only through the decline in real wages but also through a reduction in the scope and efficiency of services provided throughout the public sector. We reject out of hand any suggestion that the services provided in the public sector are not serious matters for the consideration of Parliament and the Australian people. 
Confronted with a continuation of such policies, can Australians look to the future with a new-found confidence or to a future made bleak and uncertain with declining standards of living and the threat of unemployment hanging over each and every one of them. It was interesting to hear  Senator Lajovic  say that the unemployed of this country had been made scapegoats for the deficiencies of the capitalist system. The unemployed are being hunted, harassed, persecuted and libelled by many government speakers, by many people in the media, and by too many people in the Australian community who have no responsibility for the inability of the unemployed to find jobs. That comment applies particularly to the last two years, when something like 100,000 jobs in this country have actually disappeared as a result of the economic policies pursued by the Government. 
Prospects for the future are not such as to inspire confidence, and especially is that true given the Government's failure, as evidenced by the Governor-General's Speech, to recognise the true nature of the Australian economy and the fact that our current problems arise from that nature. Even such an eminent economist as P. P. McGuinness, writing last weekend in the 

 National Times, argued that the Government's policies are ill suited to the current economic environment. The Government has been following blindly, and has given every indication that it will continue to do so, conservative monetarist policies placing prime emphasis on reducing the rate of expansion of the money supply in the forlorn hope that it will cure the evil of inflation, as though inflation was the only problem and was caused by the working people of this country. Unfortunately, such an approach to controlling inflation tends to have its major initial impact on output and employment, with the effect on prices coming much more slowly. McGuinness went on to say that this is because modern economies are not the smoothly working competitive mechanisms that traditional economic theory takes for granted. 
More than that, at the same time the Prime Minister has been interfering in the economy in such a way as to ensure that there will be still less rather than more price and employment flexibility. He is in fact adding to the social costs of his ill-conceived and ill-fitting policies. McGuinness pointed out that it is not part of an effective monetarist anti-inflationary policy to attempt artificially to control interest rates or to bring them down in anticipation of a reduction in the rate of inflation. In the second place, additional market sharing arrangements, import restrictions and tariff barriers tend to add to inflation, and it can be argued that any employment created by such protective measures will be offset by the restrictive fiscal policies required to compensate for this extra inflation. Yet none of those matters has been raised to date by Government speakers in the debate. Even when judged on traditional economic standards, the Prime Minister's economic policies emerge in abysmal disarray. As most honourable senators will realise, however, I am not accustomed to looking at things from a conservative point of view. Thus I am of the opinion that criticism of the Fraser Government can be carried well beyond the point at which McGuinness leaves off. 
I believe that our current problems are more than the result of a temporary disruption of the growth paths to which we have become accustomed. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development predicts that for the next 15 years there is unlikely to be any relief from Australia's relentlessly rising unemployment. We will see a further decline in the labour intensive industries that helped to make Australia and the West prosperous in the postwar years, with nothing emerging to replace them. No proposals have been put by this 
Government to replace the movement towards capital intensive industries as opposed to labour intensive industries. Ownership of household consumer items such as cars, washing machines and refrigerators is approaching saturation point. The only growth will be in the replacement of obsolete or irrepairable items by the substitution of colour television sets for black and white sets, for example. What then are our alternatives? Are they to shift from the labour intensive industries in our industrial structure to more specialised capital intensive industrial or mining operations? Will they be capable of providing the required employment opportunities? I am led to believe that some 800,000 more jobs will have to be created in the next four years if we are to maintain full employment. 
It is doubtful whether the Government has any plans to meet these eventualities. Will production for export provide a market? These matters are not dealt in the Governor-General's Speech. Certainly the prospect of markets in the developed nations appears limited. A recent OECD study group has discounted the hope of some people that increased demand from Third World countries may help to keep up the growth rate experienced in the 25 years after the war. The group has stated that a big problem for the OECD countries has been increasing competition from some developing countries, including Korea and Taiwan in our region. Such countries have progressed through labour intensive development in textiles, clothing and footwear into more capital intensive industries to the extent that they are now competing in the high technology industries monopolised in recent years by the developed nations of the West. Will new consumer goods emerge to take the place of those we have today? They may well do so, but one of the features of the problem that has to be recognised by governments, oppositions and the community generally is that over a period of time capitalism has lost a great deal of its innovativeness. For the time being, businessmen are losing the race to find new consumer goods to sell to the masses. We are told that we will have on the market heated toilet seats and musical toilet paper dispensers. They have not yet captured the imagination of the consumers, but if that is the limit of the initiative of those who own our industries and are amassing great amounts of capital, if that is the way they see the future of the developed countries of the West, then God help us. Those sorts of innovations will not succeed in bringing about the regeneration so essential to the economies of the Western countries, particularly our own. 
In these circumstances, is it feasible to suppose that the mere rigorous restraint of government expenditure will by some automatic process provide for longer term expansion in the private sector, as the Government would have us believe? So many of the economists are saying that governments must rein in public spending, yet I have heard rumours suggesting that, because of the lack of progress in the Australian economy, this year the deficit will exceed the deficit of the last Labor Budget- something in excess of $6,000m. When almost half a million people are out of work and real Jiving standards have been reduced, there is no way in which government can collect taxes to finance its budget. Is it feasible to suppose that the mere reduction of inflation will lead by some automatic process to a sustained reduction in unemployment, as this Government would have us believe? That has not happened anywhere in the world. None of the Western countries that have had to contend with the problems of unemployment and inflation have been able successfully to solve that particular problem. The conservative government in Japan has been spending money in the public sector to bring about a regeneration. To delude the Australian people, as the Governor-General has done, into believing that such policies can provide them with the knowledge that they can plan ahead with security and that their efforts will be rewarded is nothing short of criminal. 
The Fraser economic policies have failed dismally and unless there is a change of direction we will go further and further down the path of misery in Australia. The  National Bank Summary  of December 1977 states: 
. private personal consumption has been erratic and sluggish over the past two years . . . 
The consumption of consumer durables has stagnated-   . . hesitancy and cautiousness have been the distinguishing characteristics of the Australian consumer  . . in recent years. Some countries have experienced a recovery in consumer spending to more satisfactory levels, but few have been able to maintain this momentum and have subsequently been forced to introduce additional stimulatory measures. 
Yet we have  Senator Carrick  today, and other Government speakers, including  Mr Lynch  in the other place a couple of days ago, the Prime Minister and the Governor-General, in his Speech, ignoring the rationale, the figures, and all of the experience of other developed countries and also ignoring the basic facts about our own economy. The policies which Fraser is still pursuing have failed to provide sustained recovery overseas. Is there anything to suggest that the situation will be any different in Australia? 
It can be argued that traditional Keynesian demand management policies, developed in the light of circumstances which occurred almost 50 years ago. policies which are followed almost ipso facto in Australia, will fail to be relevant to the economic environment of the 1970s and 1980s. It is clear that there are great challenges facing the Australian economy and, I submit, also the Australian Parliament and Australian people. 
It is equally clear that traditional economic policies may not be capable of meeting these challenges. What may be necessary is a more fundamental reappraisal of the role of the publicsector in the Australian economy. Everybody, except perhaps Fraser, his cohorts, and his few supporters in the Parliament, would accept the proposition that improvements in the quality of life are needed in activities such as helping handicapped and disadvantaged citizens, adapting education to ensure personal fulfilment, improving working and playing conditions in the cities, extending modern amenities to rural areas, and reducing environmental decay. 
In the past, the profit-stimulated private sector has not been too adept at providing such things. That has been left to the public sector. There seems to be nothing to indicate that this situation will change in the future. Such improvements can be achieved only by government intervention in the economy. Over and above this, it might be necessary, in order to make enterprise more responsive to the needs of the community, for the public sector to move into the economy in areas traditionally regarded as private. 
For example, one often hears that the answer to Australia's current economic problems is to seek greater and greater efficiency, which is usually taken to mean the substitution of capital for labour. This, of course, is what has happened in the rural sector: The rural labour work force has dropped by 25 per cent to 6 per cent, and is expected to drop another 25 per cent to 4 per cent in the next 10 to 15 years. What has happened is that Australian agriculture has become very efficient and capital intensive. We are producing three times what we did 20 or 30 years ago, but that has not solved the problems facing our rural sector. 
So one has to look a little more closely at the expression that there is efficiency. There seems little point in pursuing such a path if it merely means producing more and more goods, which less and less people will be able to buy because they are unemployed. The pursuit of efficiency must be recognised as a means to an end, not as an end in itself. And if the pursuit of efficiency affects other ends, such as full employment, a more critical appraisal of the desirability of pursuing efficiency must be undertaken. Private entrepreneurs, obsessed with maximising their private gain, appear ill-suited to make such an appraisal, as it relates to community gains and losses. We suggest that there is a need for governments to accept some responsibility in this area. 
There seems little basis on which to make the conclusion, as did the Australia and New Zealand Bank Quarterly Survey of January last, that an expanding public sector leads to lower productivity, aggravates inflation and ultimately reduces the real standard of living. A survey of countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development does not suggest any correlation between a country's rate of inflation and the size of its public sector. A study by R. S. Pryke of the performance of Britain's nationalised industries found no evidence to suggest that productivity in those industries towards the end of the 1 960s was any lower than in the private manufacturing sector. Rather, Pryke concluded that the productivity- that is, output per unit of labour and capital- in the nationalised industries towards the end of the decade 1958-68 was higher than that in the private manufacturing sector. Even if productivity were lower in public enterprises, this would merely reflect the fact that public enterprises look towards ends other than the mere pursuit of efficiency for its own sake. 
What I want to do in the few moments remaining is look at the way in which modern economies have developed in the post-war years. During the Depression, Lord Keynes advanced theories designed to humanise capitalism. In those days it was in unbelievable crisis. He set about developing a theory that would enable the system of capital to survive this, its greatest, crisis. The Keynesian theory was that mass unemployment could be avoided provided governments exercised moderate and indirect control of the economy. 
He advocated that once governments secured control of the level of consumer demand, the competitiveness of capitalism would maintain a reasonable profit which, coupled with private self-interest, could ensure an efficient supply of goods and services for and on behalf of the public interest. Even though he saw the development of monopoly, likely to take place, as interfering with his theory, he expected that national and international competition would in the long run keep profits at a normal level. 
He saw governments exercising economic power over the macro-economic factors in the economy, and mild government intervention as keeping capitalist organisation healthy. He was able to see that public management of demand would help iron out the ripples. At that time he set orthodox economics on its head. He advocated a combination of fiscal and monetary policies involving changes in taxation and reduction in interest rates, the very cornerstone of this Government's policies. By this means, Keynes believed that the demand for goods and services would rise; that this would lead to a rise in the level of activity and employment. 
So we see here in Australia an application of this policy. The Government has set about to reduce taxation and prod the banks into reducing interest rates- both popular measures with the people- in the simplistic hope that it will stimulate the private sector. But this policy will not work, and none of the rhetoric of the Fraser Government, or in the Speech of the GovernorGeneral, or the lack of attention to the situation in parliamentary debates, will make it work. 
What this policy ignores is that, while nearly 50 years ago these theories did have some marginal success, they are not applicable in the modern world. What has emerged, I submit, is a major new factor, the development of the major trans-national corporations or, to use economic parlance, the masoeconomic forces, that now superimpose their decision-making upon those of governments, citizens and smaller companies. 
To try to create some order in a messed-up economic system, and solve the problems of unemployment and inflation, without considering the influence weilded by these major corporations, is ludicrous. Since 1967, more than a decade ago, we have had a decline of private investment in Australian industry. With industry producing only 77 per cent of its potential, why would the captains of industry invest in it? So capital leaves our country, is being manipulated in the currency areas, goes off-shore and is invested in the high-profit areas rather than in those that will create employment. Yet the Government states repeatedly that it is relying on the private sector to make the investment decisions that will regenerate the economy. This will not happen. It has not happened anywhere in the industrialised countries of the world. Investment capital will flow to the areas where the greatest profit can be made. 
These are the matters that ought to be debated in the Parliament: The new factors, the new influences of those who make decisions outside the Parliament. As we found in 1975. there are other centres of power. Parliament is but one centre. There are also centres of power in the regal area, in the judiciary and in the top echelons of Australian industry. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Who directed the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board to request additional information concerning tenders for the Australian Bureau of Statistics computer contract? Why was it necessary for  Mr Low,  the  Chairman  of the Board, to send three separate letters to tenderers, each successively widening the specifications of the contract? Why was the additional information necessary, and did this request for additional information come only after receiving a letter from and having subsequent discussions with the Managing Director of IBM Australia Ltd, whose firm was an unsuccessful tenderer for the original contract? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: When was the second Bailey report received by the Government and when does the Government intend to table the report in the Parliament? 
I should like to say a few words concerning the proposition that is before the Senate, perhaps comment briefly on the contribution of  Senator Harradine  and also raise a matter on which he did not touch at all. The appointment of a joint standing committee which is to concern itself with all of the factors relating to the construction of a new Parliament House is very important, and I know that I would be underestimating the view of all Senators if I were to say that we believe it to be long overdue. The Public Service Board, as a result of submissions made to it in recent times, has accepted the fact that a prima facie case has been made out for members of the Parliament to enjoy access to much better resources, so that they may better perform their parliamentary duties. In fact, in reply to correspondence from me, the Board has accepted the fact that members are working under quite unsatisfactory conditions; that they do not have access to the sorts of resources that ought to be available; further, that one of the constraints upon providing adequate resources to members of Parliament is the insufficiency of space within the Parliament itself. 
Therefore, I rejoice that we are taking another step towards providing accommodation which will enable additional resources to be made available to members. However, in view of the time required to prepare specifications and plans, the red tape that that will imply, as well as ultimately the provision of funds for the construction of such a building, we probably are thinking in terms of a considerable number of years hence before the facilities for the more effective functioning of the Parliament will become available. 
In those circumstances, it might be important to point out that space allocated to the 187 members of the House of Representatives and the Senate is restricted to 22,000 square feet, compared with 23,000 square feet, or slightly more, which is allocated to the Executive. I do not quarrel with that, because I think it is obvious that the effective functioning of the Executive requires that it have access to adequate space as well as resources, but when one compares that allocation with the allocation that is available to the remainder of the Parliament, one finds that it is a very odious comparison indeed. 
I apologise. 
I was referring to Message No. 8 also when I was discussing matters in relation to Message No. 6 which was then before the Senate. I felt that there was a certain relationship between these matters. What I wanted to draw to the attention of the Senate was the problem of resource unavailability to members of Parliament because of the accommodation constrictions and the fact that in practice the Parliament does not recognise other than the Government and the Opposition. Some consideration ought to be given to the role of smaller parties in the compilation of specifications and working plans for the new Parliament House. It seems that we are confronted with some permanence of independents and smaller parties in this place and that they will be associated with the Parliament probably more in the Senate than in the House of Representatives, in the present political climate at least. When I became a member of this chamber six years ago the Democratic Labor Party had representatives in it. They were regarded as being of some permanence, but that situation has changed. Representatives of the Australian Democrats are now with us and will be with us for a considerable number of years. 
In the preparation of plans and specifications for a new Parliament House consideration should be given to providing a place for independent senators and those representing the small parties. I do not mean office space; I mean space in the Parliament itself. There would not be disagreement then about the situation within the Parliament itself of the members of parliament who do not belong to the major political parties. I consider it to be an unsatisfactory state of affairs when such disagreement arises. There will be times when an opposition will have to vacate part of its space in the Senate for minor parties because the government of the day says that that is where those parties should sit. At the moment there is a disparity between the number of Government senators and Opposition senators and there is no problem about where the independent senators sit. But perhaps the stage will be reached when the two major parties have 31 senators each and two senators from other parties make up the total number. It may well be that the allocation of seats then by the government of the day, as is the present practice, will be unsatisfactory. To some extent it may impinge upon the impartiality and neutrality of the senators who are independents or members of smaller parties. There is some obligation on the part of the committee which is to be appointed to have regard to the changing political representation which seems to be a feature of other countries. It has not been a feature of our country so far but in my view it is likely to be in the future. 
The point that  Senator Harradine  raised earlier today has now been adequately catered for in the proposition that the Standing Orders Committee should have regard to the changing nature of the Senate. That may create a protocol problem for the House of Representatives, which does not recognise the peculiarities of the Senate insofar as the Senate has different trends of thought. It now has five trends of thought. It is conceivable that there will be some change within the structure of the National Country Party of Australia, given the circumstances that exist in some of the State branches of that party. It is conceivable that six or seven trends of thought will be represented in the Senate from time to time. 
We may also have a few trendies. An exciting new world could develop. I think the committee to be appointed by both Houses of Parliament should take that into consideration. I have spoken previously about the constraints placed upon members of parliament and their staff. Despite the fact that the Government is now taking some initiatives in providing for the construction of a new Parliament House, I envisage that it will be a decade before it actually comes about. I am assuming that the government of the day will vote the funds necessary for the construction to be completed. I do not think that the Government can ignore the present accommodation problems of members of parliament for that period of time. I suggest that this Committee, the Government or the Presiding Officers should look at the accommodation problems facing members of parliament particularly as more staff may become available to members of parliament. As a first step there is a case for members of the shadow Ministry being provided with additional resources so that they can more adequately represent the Opposition in debates in this place. It must be conceded that the shadow Executive is very much disadvantaged by the existing restraints. The Cabinet has access to tremendous resources not only in the departments of the Ministers but also in the personal staff of the Ministers. 
I raised this matter with  Mr Daly  when he was Minister for Administative Services. He said that he would not give additional resources to the then Opposition. My rejoinder was that we were more likely to be in opposition than the Liberal and National Country Parties. How prophetic my words were! But that does not destroy the logic of the argument that oppositions should be equipped to deal with the actions of the government of the day. To do that they need resources. They need accommodation within the Parliament. I am not suggesting that the Government can be prevailed upon to provide the Opposition with all the resources available to the Executive at the moment. But there is a case for making some improvement in the accommodation situation. This debate gives us an opportunity to raise that point of view. How this is to be achieved is surely a matter for the Presiding Officers, but consideration ought to be given to the way in which accommodation has been distributed. Over the years the Parliament has grown and changed. I am sure that even Government members and back bench supporters feel that there is room for improvement. 
I believe that the Parliament is one of the centres where decisions should be made for the benefit of the Australian people. The Parliament should be a place where democracy exists not only in theory but also in practice. I am one of those who are agitating for the Parliament to be a much more effective place in the distribution of power in Australia. If we do not take some steps towards this end within the Parliament itself we are recreant in our areas of responsibility. I do not know whether the proposed committee will have the responsibility to consider this matter. If it does not the Presiding Officers or the Government should give the committee the right to make such recommendations, unless that is already within the province of the Presiding Officers. The committee has an obligation to the Parliament to extend to members of parliament, including members of new parties, better facilities than are available at the moment. 
On the surface, the proposition from the Standing Orders Committee must be supported by the Senate because it represents an improvement on the present Standing Orders. It seems to me that it has evolved naturally from the way in which the Senate has dealt with matters of public importance. That is the way I interpret what the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  has said.  Senator Baume  has raised an interesting point which probably requires a little more consideration. I am somewhat perplexed about whether we should put the  President  in the position of having to adjudicate on two or perhaps three propositions that may be submitted to him. We should bear in mind that matters of public importance can be submitted by one member or any group of members as constituted in the party sense. If we adopt the proposition that the choice between competing matters should be left to the  President  it will tend to put him in a political position and create conditions which will enable those who get up early enough to put forward a proposal to stop another proposal coming forward. That is the dilemma as I see it. We have to consider whether there should be a time factor, that is, whether the first person who submits a proposal should get priority or whether it should be left to the  President  to decide which matter should be debated. 
The submission of a matter of public importance appeals to me as being better than a motion to debate a matter of urgency which may involve a censure of the Government. If we want to see the Senate assume a more general role and not just develop as a party House, we should have some misgivings, as I have had, about the rigidity with which the Senate operates from time to time. I would like to see many more debates on general matters. I think that is part of our review role. From time to time we should be able to make decisions that do not necessarily reflect upon the government of the day. It might suit me in today's circumstances to have a motion agreed to by the Senate, but it might not in other circumstances. One cannot have double standards in these matters. Perhaps the greater part of my time in the Parliament has been spent in opposition rather than in government, so I can see some merit in allowing a more genuine debate to take place within the Senate on matters which are of public importance but which may not necessarily reflect, although I suppose in most instances they would, completely upon the decisions of the government of the day. What we are concerned about here is developing a concept which will put the Senate in a much better position to consider matters which in the opinion of four senators ought to be placed before the Senate for its consideration. I have no foreknowledge of the views of my colleagues on the Committee to this matter. As I understand it, we are dealing with it in the sense of determining whether it has any merit. I am inclined to think that we ought to be examining the proposal from the point of view of what is best for the Senate and what would best facilitate the discussion of matters which have public importance rather than matters which might be critical of the Government of the day. 
Having regard to what I said earlier this day about the rights of smaller parties, the other point to remember is that we are placing some restriction on the ability of the smaller parties to contribute to this process. That may be good or it may be bad. I am inclined to think, in view of what I said earlier in the day, that it is not a good practice to require four signatories on each matter proposed for discussion. It may well be, in six months, that a proposed matter for discussion will have the signatures of only two or three senators and will therefore require the support of another senator for it to be aired in this place. I am not sure that we should support that restriction. It may well be that when the matter proposed for discussion is read to the Senate, it having first met the requirements of the Standing Orders, individual senators will want to rise as part of a quartet to support the proposal. This matter is worthy of some consideration. I would not go so far as to suggest that an individual senator should submit a matter for discussion in his own right without having the support of other senators but I think that by requiring four senators to support in writing a matter proposed for discussion it could restrict the rights of the minority point of view. 
I suppose what I am saying is that I support in general terms what has been recommended by the Committee but I have some misgivings about the way in which the  President  will be forced to adjudicate. I also have some misgivings about whether a matter proposed for discussion should be supported by the signatures of at least four senators, which is a departure from the previous practice which required the signature of a senator and the support of a specified number in the chamber. 
I am prepared to be associated with the first proposition. I did not realise I was opening a Pandora's Box when I suggested that the requirement that a senator obtain the written support of at least four other senators imposed an undue restriction upon the rights of honourable senators. However, as a result of the ensuing debate, it appears that we may reach sufficient unanimity to support the proposition that the Senate itself, in session, shall have the opportunity to express its view. On some occasions senators from both sides may rise in support of a proposition. I think that is a more edifying way of dealing with the matter than suggesting that an honourable senator go cap in hand seeking support, and perhaps spending a whole morning trying to get senators out of their party rooms to support a proposition. I do not think that is a very sensible way to deal with the matter. 
Therefore, if necessary, I shall be prepared to support the proposed amendment. I do not know whether the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  proposes to withdraw his proposition with a view to obtaining unanimity on this matter or whether he wants a specific amendment moved. If that is the case, I am prepared either to move or support an amendment which would provide that the Senate should itself be master of the situation and that an individual senator or minority group would not be placed in a disadvantageous position in respect of matters of public importance. 
My question is directed to  Senator Durack  as the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and perhaps in his own capacity as AttorneyGeneral. I draw his attention to the fact that the footwear industry in Australia is in a very serious state as a result of import competition. Will the 
Minister advise what redress is available to citizens in respect of the blatantly dishonest packaging of imported goods? With your indulgence,  Mr President,  I will refer to two instances. In one of the major stores in Australia goods are sold bearing the trade name 'Melbourne' with a stamp 'made in' superimposed at the top of the trade name, giving the impression that the goods are made in Melbourne, when in fact, when one reads very carefully, one finds that they are made in Taiwan. In the second instance, goods called  Colonel Lightfoot  's Sporting and Recreational Footwear' have the Union Jack prominently displayed on the packaging. However, when one opens the package and looks inside one finds that the goods are made in Taiwan. I therefore ask: Will the Minister advise what steps can be taken by Customs or, if the matter does not come within its purview, by the Government, to ensure that such goods do not set out deliberately to convey to Australian consumers that they are Australian made? 

 - Mr President, the debate on the Government's proposals to change the emphasis of the Industries Assistance Commission Act has been a very interesting one. One would have expected, in the light of the contributions made by the last three speakers, that they would have been much more ready to support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. I do not think anyone disputes that we are in a very different son of world today from the one we were in at the beginning of this decade- even different from the world we were in during the 1950s and the 1960s- and that over the last half dozen years or so the changing pattern of world trade has distorted existing trade relationships in all countries. I suppose the principal factor that has emerged from this change has been the development of technology and the massive flow of capital from country to country in the endeavour to reach the economies of scale that those who possess capital believe should be realised in pursuit of the market by developing industries. If we recognise that as the situation- I suggest that the last three speakers have in some way taken cognisance of those changes- I think we have to examine the role of a country like Australia, which once did ride on the sheep's back but which for a whole number of historical reasons has developed an important manufacturing base and a certain self-sufficiency. Those changes now have to be seen in the light of the changing world trade relationships. 
We are confronted with an unprecedented movement of capital throughout the world. It seeks to be invested in those countries where labour costs are low and where industries can be developed at a fraction of the costs in developed countries. In pursuit of the economies of scale, countries like the United States of America, West Germany and Japan have carried out a major investment policy. That is reflected, it seems to me, more specifically in our region of the world than in any other part of the globe; that is, in the Asian region and the ASEAN region. It is understandable that this process should be taking place. What we have to recognise and I think those senators who have contributed to this debate have to recognise is that in the OECD countries the latest figures issued by the International Labour Organisation show 1 5 million people out of work. They are out of work because there is an over-production- or, as some like to describe it, an under-consumption- of manufactured goods. But in the underdeveloped countries there is a labour force of 300 million people which is idle.  Senator Sim  has suggested that we should be playing some part in this redistribution process which the movement of capital suggests is the course we should take, but if we did so I doubt whether there would be a viable industry left in this country. 
If we are to worship at the shrine of efficiency and accept reduced unit costs of production as the only influence to be considered, we should produce just wool, wheat and perhaps coal and one or two other products which would place us in the position of having a competitive price and efficient production for world market needs. But as  Senator Harradine  has quite correctly said- I believe  Senator Archer  referred to this too- we have some responsibility to employ people in our country. I think we are confronted with a difficulty in that governments are not able to control the manner in which capital is floating about on the world scene. In fact, we are not even able to control it within our own domestic economy. In the area in which I have been showing more than usual interest in recent years- agriculturewhenever governments have moved to stabilise prices there has been a movement of financial resources to those stable industries. That is what  Senator Sim  and other honourable senators have referred to in their contributions to the debate. Whenever protection is applied or government assistance, in whatever form, is given, capital will flow to that area because it becomes a stable industry, no matter where it is. That applies on a world scale; it applies on our domestic scale. 
I think the mistake on which we can reflect- I think  Senator Sim  was correct in saying that he has been talking about this problem since 1965- is that governments have not been prepared to grasp the nettle to stop that flow of capital or to take what steps are needed in the Australian community to achieve a balanced position that would enable capital to play a socially useful role and, perforce, an employment role which would keep Australians working and would provide employment opportunities for all those who want to work. 

 Mr President, I have been very critical of the tariff cuts which the Labor Government introduced. Those cuts were designed to bring about a redistribution within the manufacturing areas. That action did not work. I think it has to be said that the tariff cuts did not achieve Labor's objectives. Certainly honourable senators from Tasmania will appreciate that that action had very grave consequences for the economy in that State, as it did in other parts of Australia. The Tariff Board consistently followed a policy to which the industries of Australia have drawn attention in numerous reports, expressed mainly in the Australian Industries Development Association information sheets that are given to us from time to time. The reports have shown that for the last 10 or 1 1 years there has been an inability in the Australian context for capital to play the son of role that it should play in order to maintain industrial, manufacturing and employment bases for Australia. 
On the international scene, our shipbuilding industry has been written off because for a variety of reasons- technology, capital and low labour costs- overseas countries can produce ships much more cheaply than we can. The same can be said of our textile and footwear industries. In fact, all of our manufacturing goods are going to come under the same son of pressure. Philosophically, I suppose that all of us in one way or another would support the principles of free trade, but that would be conditional upon us living in an equal world. However, such is the stage of our development that we are not living in an equal world; we are living in a very unequal world. We are living now in a world where trade influences are cutting across even the policies of government that try to control development within domestic economies. Those countries that have massive capital to invest are not investing for a number of reasons and do not intend to invest during 1978 and 1979. As a result, the world is facing an economic and trade recession. 
The Industries Assistance Commission was set up by the Whitlam Government in a most earnest endeavour to grapple with the problems facing capital and labour sources in Australia and with the structural problems that clearly exist in one way or another- devastating in some areas, only minimal in others- in every branch of industry in this country. Whilst our structural problems may vary, they still have their counterparts in countries such as Japan, West Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom, and the European Economic Community countries. We are confronted with a more fundamental problem than governments seem able to comprehend. One of the positive features of the Whitlam period was the degree to which investigations were carried out into discernible problem areas, and honourable senators ought to read the many volumes that make up the Jackson report on manufacturing industry. The report drew attention to the type of problem we have and to the need for the Government and the community to accept change and to plan for it. I put it to  Senator Harradine  that that report is still very relevant for consideration by the Parliament and the Government. 
Last year  Senator Cotton  presented another White Paper on manufacturing industry which again drew attention to the nature of the problem. I have to agree with the honourable senator that the reports have highlighted the structural problems and the difficulties facing many sectors of industry. But so far no policies have been developed to my satisfaction, or I am sure to the satisfaction of employers and employees, that would give some confidence to the business sector and the trade union movement that the changes that need to be made will take into consideration the interests of those two sections. 
We have taken steps virtually to close down the shipbuilding industry and the skills of those engaged in that industry are being lost. For a variety of reasons, State governments and others have absorbed the labour force. But the organisation and the facilities that have taken generations to build up have been lost. I venture to say that, if we rely entirely upon market forces and the ability of capital to find its own level, other sections of Australian industry will face the same sort of spectre as that faced by the shipbuilding industry. A similar problem is occurring now in the building industry, where over the last two or three years apprentices have almost disappeared because of the nature of the industry and the problems associated with the downturn that has taken and is continuing to take place. 
As members of Parliament, as members of parties, as part of the general community, we must be concerned about the changes that are taking place day by day, with no central planning, guidelines, policies or strategies to take up the slack. As our agricultural industries declined over the last 40 or 50 years and the work force dropped from 25 per cent to 6 per cent, the slack was taken up by manufacturing industry and by the public sector. But figures available this morning show that manufacturing has dropped from 29 per cent in relation to the gross domestic product about a decade ago to 2 1 per cent. One can show a similar drop in the percentage of people employed in manufacturing industry. As we know, there has been a deliberate policy to curtail public expenditure and consequently a drop in public sector employment. For the first time since the Great Depression, all sectors of the Australian economy are more or less in a state of decline in terms of job opportunities. It has been suggested that approximately 100,000 jobs have disappeared in the last three or four years, not to be replaced by training schemes and not likely to be replaced because those jobs have disappeared as a result of changing patterns of world trade. 
One of the weaknesses of the IAC is that it was set up to take into account the social and economic policies of the government of the day. It has to be conceded that in its reports both to the previous Government and to this Government the 
IAC has tended to have something of a fragmented approach. It has tended to look at industries in isolation. It has had neither the coordination and the coherence nor the concept of a strategy so essential- I agree with the last three speakers- if we are to know where we are going. I would not go the way  Senator Sim  would want to go but I share his concern that we are going downhill without a driver. I find myself fairly close to the concern expressed by Senators Archer, Brown and Harradine about the need for us to have long-term objectives. For example, if we have a 20-year plan to restructure Australian manufacturing industry or agriculture, we could conceivably say that if we are going to close down industry A then we will have a retraining scheme and a scheme to attract private investment in sector B. Those who are displaced because of market forces and because of change, whether it be domestic change or international change by imports- two sectors go to make the whole, capital investment and the labour forcecan be gainfully employed to realised those objectives. That is what the Labor Party is talking about in its amendment. 
I concede to  Senator Harradine  that we in the Opposition have not yet developed our medium or long-term economic strategy. But we are working on it. After all, the Opposition is not charged with the responsibility of running the affairs of this country. We believe that the Parliament should play some part in this process. It should not be left to the political parties. In fact, the media, the trade union movement and the whole community have some responsibility because we are faced now with the question of whether we will continue to go as we have been, which is without a policy and just plugging up the holes. I suggest that is what  Mr Fraser  is doing. He is terribly inconsistent. I think that is what  Senator Sim  is saying.  Mr Fraser  is telling the European Economic Community that it should open its doors to imports and at the same time he is imposing restrictions and tariffs in relation to our own industries. I agree that that should be done in pursuance of a policy of full employment. But if in that process capital investment is allowed to go into those areas, then I think the Government has failed its duty because that is a misuse of resources. 
I concede that we have a capital investment shortage in this country. We do not want to see repeated in manufacturing industry the sort of misuse of financial resources which we have seen in agriculture over the years. When the Government steps in and stabilises an industry we find capital flowing to that stable area because it has a stable return on invested funds. We have to make up our minds whether the Industries Assistance Commission will take one of two courses: Will it pursue the policies it has been pursuing, which I suggest are fragmented and lack cohesion and direction except in the generality, or will it be asked to comply with a strategy which is acceptable to the government of the day? That is why we are adding to the motion the words: 
But the Senate deplores the actions of Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy , , , 
We as an Opposition want to maintain our industrial base. After all, it has given us one of the best standards of living in the world. The Australian people will not tolerate it being whittled away. I hope that governments of all political persuasions will maintain that base. 

 Senator Harradine said that Australia might become the base for the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. It is an interesting thought. One of the problems we have to concern ourselves about in relation to ASEAN countries is that most of their products are manufactured for export. They are not made for the domestic market. If the people of the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand or Malaysia want an expanding living standard then the way forward for them is to manufacture goods for their domestic market as the principal preoccupation of their industries. They should not see the export market as being more important than their domestic market. A country as small as Australia with 14 million people is a very small market when compared with world standards. I find it inconceivable that we should be subject to haranguing from Lee Kuan Yew and others that all the problems of the Third World will be resolved if we open our doors for goods. That is such an absurd proposition. We are such a small country in terms of the potential which exists and the degree of production which already exists. That is not taking into account those millions and millions of people in those countries who have to be properly employed. 
We are in a very difficult situation and we are in a new situation. But we are in a situation in which we have to work out policies which will enable the Australian work force to be gainfully employed. I am not so sure that those objectives necessarily coincide with the objectives of those who say that we ought to produce more. I say to  Senator Archer  that I do not think it is a question of producing more or of reducing unit costs of production because our problem now is markets. On the agricultural side, we could produce a great deal more. Our difficulty is to get access to markets. That is the struggle which is now taking place in every country. All countries are producing more than can be distributed. They are all trying to score off some other country. There is no rationality in the situation. I think we have reached the stage of stagflation in the international area of world trade and capital investment is declining. I think the only exception is West Germany. We cannot envisage getting much assistance from international forces which will help us solve our problems which are certainly influenced by overseas events. 
Our amendment seeks to criticise the Government for its failure to develop a long-term economic strategy which will concern itself with the social and economic aims of full employment, which will meet the needs of a developing economy and which will enable our manufacturing industry to be maintained. We believe that the Government, rather than endeavouring to narrow down the guidelines should be giving a wider franchise. It seems to the Australian Labor Party that the Government should be giving the Industrial Assistance Commission wider guidelines and greater assistance to carry out its valuable work of objective reporting about the nature of industry, provided it is in line with overall strategy which is the responsibility of governments. Thoughtful contributions have been made by all members of the Senate. It is in the light of those comments that we ought to do what we can within our own political structures to adopt a less rigid party political position if we are to solve these grave economic problems which face us. That is why we would hope that the Senate would give favourable consideration to the amendment that we have moved. That does not prevent the Bill from being adopted but does express the opinion that the responsibility to develop short, medium and long term economic policies rests upon the Government. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administative Services, relates quite closely, I think, to the answer that he gave a short time ago to a question from  Senator Button.  I refer the Minister to the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy, which is known as the Scott report, which was commissioned by the Whitlam Government, which was presented to Parliament in May 1974 and which dealt with the whole question of government purchases. I ask: Would the controversial problems associated with tenders for computers not have been avoided if the Government had acted on one of the recommendations of that Committee, which suggested that restrictions should be placed on public servants involved in procurement purchases, or tendering, for a period of at least two years from their ceasing to be public servants? Further, will the Government consider the other recommendations of this Committee which, among other things, suggest that huge amounts of public funds could be saved if the Government established a centralised purchasing authority to be known as the Australian Government Purchasing Commission to enable it to be much more economic in purchases of stores and goods? 
The proposals relating to Aurukun and Mornington Island surely warrant the consideration of the Australian Senate. Many of us would be concerned that in recent times a situation has developed in Queensland that is not acceptable to the Australian people, the Australian Government, public opinion, and certainly the Aboriginal people of this country. We heard on the media yesterday that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  had received a telegram which stated: 
Council and community not consulted on Government takeover. What is happening? Please help us. 
Those of us who listened to that program and who have followed in recent times the development of events in Queensland as they relate to Aborigines believe that the time has arrived for us to have a parliamentary debate on these issues. The Queensland Government again is finding itself in conflict with church authorities. Hot on the heels of the Premier's dispute with church leaders over street marches, the Government has now taken on the Uniting Church over the Aurukun Aboriginal Community, Mornington Island, and other areas that are currently managed by the church. I have raised this matter with a view to expressing my grave concern at the takeover by the Queensland Government and the developments that led up to it. Like many honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, over a long period I have become increasingly concerned about the policies of the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government on many issues, but particularly on Aborigines. I am firmly of the opinion that it is now time for the Federal Government to act. I hope that the spirit and intent of this matter of public importance will have the support of the Senate. 
We have all watched the actions of the Queensland Government over the last decade. Some of us have watched them with bewilderment, some of us with disgust and others with despair as many conceptions of decency and humanity towards Australia's original inhabitants have been eroded. But now is the moment for us collectively as the Australian Senate to make our position clear and to make our request to the Australian Government. This is the moment when all honourable senators should express their desire to halt the trend taking place in Queensland. We can and we must succeed if we as Australians are to hold our heads high in national and international forums as being dedicated to the elimination of racism. On numerous occasions members of the Senate have expressed their opposition to the racist evil of apartheid in South Africa. We must now take steps towards halting the dangerous growth in Queensland. I hope that all honourable senators will join with me in supporting the matter of public importance as a tangible expression of our feeling towards the latest moves. It can be said that we should have requested the Federal Government to take over all the responsibilities for Aboriginal affairs in Queensland. If in the considered judgment of honourable senators that is what they believe should be done, the Opposition will be prepared to support such a proposition. We have deliberately narrowed this matter down to the discernible problem areas as we see them in the Gulf of Carpentaria now. 
In moving for the discussion of a matter of public importance today, I am mindful of two of the most important political events in Australia's recent history. They were in broad terms the dedication of some to an end of racism in Australia and overseas and recognition of the dignity of fellow human beings. In 1967 the overwhelming majority of Australians, in far larger numbers than even the original majority in favour of the Australian Federation- I point out that this question of Aborigines in Australia and in Queensland in particular was an issue at the time of Federation- voted in the referendum to give the Federal Government responsibility for Aboriginal affairs. That responsibility was given overwhelmingly. Progressively all States, with the exception of Queensland, have handed functions for Aboriginal affairs over to the Federal Government. The Queensland Government alone has denied the Federal Government this national responsibility. Indeed, it has gone further in obstructing the Federal Government in the pursuit of the national role given directly to it by the Australian people. It has ignored the promises, statements and policies of whichever government has been in power. In particular, it has ignored the policies of the Government elected in 1975 and 1977. 
On 30 October 1975, the Federal Government ratified the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination. Article 2(1) makes the Australian Government's obligations perfectly clear. It states: 
Each State party shall take effective measures to review governmental, national and local policies, and to amend, rescind or nullify any laws and regulations which have the effect of creating or perpetuating racial discrimination wherever if exists. 
There is no question about our obligations in this respect. The national Government of Australia has the responsibility to eliminate the Queensland State Act on Aborigines. It is the power vested in this Act that enables the Minister of the Queensland Government to ride roughshod over Aborigines in that State and in the case of Aurukun and Mornington Island to take over the church missions without consultation with the Aboriginal people themselves. We submit that this is an intolerable situation. It is contrary to the wishes of the Australian people and in essence contravenes international laws to which Australia is a party. The actions of the Queensland Government in taking over the Aurukun and Mornington Island missions are just the latest in a long record of confrontation between that Government, in the policies pursued by the present Premier, and the Australian Government. In October and November 1977, the Queensland Premier personally destroyed the trachoma program operated by the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists in North Queensland. I am sure that honourable senators recall the details of the program. The destruction of the national trachoma program has parallels in deliberate administrative acts. There have been harassments of other Federal initiatives also. For example, in November 1976 the land rights legislation was passed by this chamber. It is perhaps worth while just to recall to the Minister at the table, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that on that occasion she said: 
The Bill which I am now introducing ... is a tangible indication of this Government's commitment to the principle that Aboriginals and Islanders should be as free as other Australians to determine their own future and to take their rightful place as citizens in the Australian community. 
That legislation recognised the moral and legal rights of Aborigines to their traditional lands, but what has the Government of Queensland done? On 25 January 1977,  Mr Tomkins,  the 
Queensland Minister for Lands, told the Queensland Parliament that he Ifad vetoed the transfer of the Archer River lease, which had been purchased in the market place by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. The land was for the use of the traditional owners, who now reside in the Aurukun and Coen areas. It is ironic that such a blatant abuse of ministerial discretion should have been announced on Australia Day, and only two months after the land rights legislation had been passed. One can only say that it is perversity at its worst. Yet these actions are only a small part of a catalogue of such actions. I shall refer briefly to some of these. At Mapoon, Aboriginal houses were bulldozed for the convenience of mining companies. The traditional owners were exiled from their tribal lands to Bamaga and other areas. Similarly, the lands that have been set aside as Aboriginal reserves have been eroded as they have become of economic interest. I recall  Senator Bonner's  statement in this chamber on that subject in 1 976. He said: 
That is the history of land which was set aside in my own State of Queensland and in other States of the Commonwealth for Aboriginal people when it had no commercial value, no minerals and nothing else for the white man. Immediately minerals were found, or the white man saw it as good agriculture land or good land on which to graze cattle or sheep, it was resumed. It was no longer reserve. It went back to the white man. 
This, of course, has been the pattern of eventsthe development of the manner in which the Queensland Government has placed itself at variance with the continuing policies of the Federal Government through the late 60s and through all of the 70s- despite different Prime Ministers, different governments and different philosophies upon which government policies, nationally, were determined. 
What is happening in Queensland is a blight upon the 1967 referendum and contradicts Australia's obligations under the International Convention on the Elimination of Racism. These acts are contrary to Federal laws, particularly Queensland's Discriminatory Laws Act of Queensland, and the Racial Discrimination Act of 1 975. The Queensland Act must be eliminated if Aborigines in Queensland are to receive their just due- their lands, adequate welfare and improvements to health and education. Most of all, they must be eliminated as an inhuman restraint on the self-identity, culture and society of Aborigines. I would hope that the Australian Government would see fit now to take the action necessary to enforce moral and legal rights for Aborigines in Australia. 
I refer to some of the remarks made by the Minister himself. I have already referred to the telegram he mentioned. He said that he was disappointed that the Queensland Government did not get in touch with him to let him know what was happening. He said: 
We know of the Queensland Government's agreement to allow mining for bauxite at Aurukun and of course you will recall back in 1976, the Government and the Prime Minister said quite plainly to the Queensland Government that we were anxious to see that whatever was done with respect to mining on Aurukun was done in full and adequate consultation with the Aurukun people. Well now - this was yesterday's statement by the Minister,  Mr Viner- 
. that policy still stands. I am concerned at what has happened. It does seem to run counter to the more modern trends of administration of aboriginal affairs, in particular policies of self management, which are directed to putting Aborigines for the first time in a position where they can manage their own affairs, make decisions for themselves rather than being managed by government. 
I can well recall debates in this place when those principles were enunciated by supporters of the Government. Now is the time for them to be put into effect. 
We are confronted with an arbitrary, blatant and illegal decision by  Mr Porter,  the new Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, who, as yet, has not even been sworn in before the Queensland Parliament. The Queensland Parliament met for only 38 days during the whole of last year. It has the worst parliamentary sitting record of all Australian parliaments. A man who has not yet been able to justify his position through parliamentary debate or decision has made a determination about these matters while the Parliament is in recess. It has been in recess for about six months. There has been no parliamentary debate on this matter. It is no wonder, in those circumstances, that public opinion is railing hard against the Queensland Government.  Mr Porter  may well have the endorsement of the Government. But he has made a decision that these settlements will be taken over at the end of this month which means, in effect, that the Queensland Parliament is being disregarded. It is not due to resume until 28 March this year. That is only a couple of days prior to the timetable that has been set. 
What has been said by the people themselves? I have a number of telegrams. One of them ought to be read to the Senate. I shall seek leave subsequently to have the others incorporated in  Hansard.  I received a telegram today from  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu, the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. He said: 
The situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island in Queensland is a matter of great concern to all Aboriginal people. The Government has the authority to act and should act quickly and firmly to ensure that Aboriginal people are not subject to actions by State governments anywhere in Australia that encroach on their inalienable rights to determine their own future or that weakens their hold on the land that remains to them. The administration of Aboriginal affairs should be carried by the Federal Government. This telegram has been sent to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs yesterday. 
Excuses have been made by the Queensland Government.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  wants full control over Aurukun in order to enable mining to proceed unfettered by the wishes of the Aborigines who are directly affected. The Aurukun Council has consistently opposed a State Government takeover of the mission. I refer to what has been said by the Reverend John Brown, a Minister of the Uniting Church who is in charge of the missions. He said: 
We want freedom for the Aurukun people to decide the rate and pace and direction of their own development. 
We want freedom for them to respond to the impact of white society at their own pace and in their own direction, that is what it 's about. 
The Aurukun people were 17 or 18 clans scattered about 80 miles up and down the coast in the vicinity of Aurukun, so Aurukun perhaps, could be seen as a centre for the clans. 
He speaks of the need to maintain the separate status of that area as distinct from the direction of the Queensland Government to mine regardless. Consistently, the Uniting Church has maintained that no meaningful consultation has taken place between the mining companies and the Aurukuns. The Church has persisted in bringing to the attention of the Australian people its disquiet at the Queensland Government's unilateral action in support of the mining companies. One can only say that it is that persistence which has led to the expulsion of the Church from this area. I think we can disregard the excuses advanced by  Mr Porter,  the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islander Advancement, for the sudden takeover. Health, educational and social standards at Aurukun are better than those in most other reserves in Queensland.  Mr Porter's  remarks are indeed hollow. In fact, in 1969 a study on growth retardation in Aboriginals made by David G. Jose and John S. Welch from the Queensland Institute of Medical Research and which was published in the  Medical Journal of Australia  found that standards at Aurukun were well in advance of those at nearly all other reserves and missions in Queensland. In reality the Queensland Minister, who was at Mornington Island on 12 March and failed even to discuss the proposed takeover with the Aborigines, is attempting once again to cover up the more outrageous decisions of the Queensland Government. 
I believe- and I am sure that many people in Australia believe- that the time has come for this Parliament to assert its view and to stop the policies that are being implemented in Queensland. The Australian Government should assume full legal, constitutional and moral responsibilities so that the Aboriginal people in Queensland can be treated in the same way as they are in all of the other States. I think it has to be said that over the years a consensus attitude has grown up in Australia and in the Parliament to the problems of the Aborigines and our responsibilities therein. We sincerely believe that, as has been said by so many people, the time has arrived for the Australian Government to assume its rightful responsibilities. The legal adviser to the Aborigines has said that we have reached the point of no return. It has to be the last straw that the Government in Queensland can continue the policies that it has pursued. 
It is in the light of those sorts of conditions and in the light of all the theory that exists in Australia about our responsibilities to Aborigines that we believe that the Senate should, as a place of review and as a place where independence of thought is expressed from time to time, accept responsibility and put on record a request to the national Government to assume its rightful responsibilities. We should stand behind those senators and others who have expressed their views from time to time about the problem in Queensland, stand behind the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, who is very concerned about the developments in Queensland, and stand behind the Prime Minister who has given assurances that there will be no imposition upon the people of Aurukun without their agreement. That agreement can come only with the assistance of those who have given counsel to the Aborigines for the whole of this century- it was 1902 when the Christian Church went to that area- and who have built up respect and leadership in the area for many years. They are the sort of people that the Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island rely upon in determining the future of their area and the future of their race. It is in the spirit of those circumstances that we believe the Senate should adopt the motion that has been moved today. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the inquiry into oil prices which is due to take place next Monday. Recognising that any further increase in the price of petroleum products in Australia would have a disastrous effect on inflation and costs generally, does the Government intend to state a case before the Prices Justification Tribunal? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's attitude to the proposed petrol price increase? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security follows upon the question asked by  Senator Grimes  and the answer that she has just given to  Senator Bishop.  When did the Minister become aware of irregularities in the payment of sickness benefits? Has there been a review of or any change in the procedures governing the administration of sickness benefits since the Minister became aware of the possibility of large scale fraud in this area? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
1) Do population projections available to the Minister's Department indicate that Western Australia will be eligible for an extra seat in the House of Representatives; if so, when. 
Is it likely that a consequential redistribution will take place in Western Australia before the general election in 1980. 
The Senate is considering the statement which was put down in this place by you,  Mr President,  and in the House of Representatives on 2 March and the debate which has taken place on several occasions since then. It is true to say that some concern has been expressed at the manner in which matters involving the security of this place and of those who work in it- of course, that includes members of parliament-, have been put into effect. Justification for the debate that has taken place over the last month is now borne out by the amendment which was moved today by an honourable senator on the Government side. It seems to me that that amendment has taken into account and consideration the relevant criticism which was expressed by my colleagues in the Opposition on the occasion when this matter was first debated in the Senate. 
We have to ask what is the purpose of the security proposals. Are they to protect the institution? Are they designed to protect the staff or to protect members of parliament? It is relevant that we consider whether those objectives will be achieved by the methods which have been outlined and by the administative steps which have been put into effect. First of all I think it has to be said that the institution, that is, the building and the facilities which are here, is probably indefensible. Whatever steps are taken, I doubt that we can say with any degree of certainty that the building could be completely and utterly protected unless we were to withdraw the rights of citizens to visit this place. Maybe I am influenced by some of the more dramatic events which have occurred overseas and by the way in which the ingenuity of man has been expressed in the entertainment which is given to us regularly at theatres and on the television. 
It seems to me that if somebody really sets out to do damage, it is very difficult for those in authority to protect a building or an institution. Of course, we are all committed to the principle that we protect the staff. But I wonder whether we are not elevating that principle to too high a degree. Let us face it, the staff is scattered in cities and towns throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The staff in those locations do not and will not enjoy the protection which it is suggested the staff here may enjoy from some untoward incident. If we are concerned about protecting the staff then surely we should be concerned about protecting also the staff of the Department of Social Security or of the Taxation Office and of the other Public Service instrumentalities. I wonder to what extent that principle has relevance when we consider the way in which the whole operation has been put into effect. 
That finally brings me to the members themselves. Many members have disclaimed any personal desire to be protected. They consider that there is no obligation to protect them and they do not want to be put in a premier position or into a position in which they are protected from citizens, whoever they may be. After all, to some extent that would be without purpose because we are here only three or four days a week, depending on the sitting times. The moment we leave this place we are prone to be subjected to any incident whatsoever. I do not believe that that situation has any priority in a question of the security measures which have been projected and which have been taken so far. 
It has to be recognised that times have changed. In saying that I am influenced by the fact that we are living in a period of history where events and individual acts of terrorism are becoming commonplace. So one cannot be blase about the matter. One cannot take an offhand point of view. But I think it behoves us, and particularly those who wield executive power and who hold the power, to act in such a way as to avoid the sort of public reaction which provokes people to acts of terrorism. I would like to see more thought given to that aspect instead of emphasising the protection of this place. During the brief few years that I have been here we have had demonstrations about the war in Vietnam. We have had demonstrations about conscription. I can remember occasions during the first few months I was here when conscripts were seeking to express a point of view to the AttorneyGeneral and to the government of the day. We had the black embassy when people pitched tents on the front lawns of Parliament House. We have had other demonstrations, deputations and delegations. We have the annual pilgrimage to Canberra by senior citizens, our pensioners. 
Whilst some strongly held views have been expressed about some of those issues, the point has never been reached where the rights of those citizens, to represent themselves in this place and in various ways through members of political parties, have been affected because we have seen fit to take the sorts of steps which have now been taken. We take issue at the manner in which these arrangements have been introduced. I think it is true to say-  Senator Missen  correctly underlined this fact and other speakers referred to it- that there is an alienation in the Australian community about the use and abuse of arbitrary power. I find it incongruous for somebody like  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to give unqualified support for what has been done at the request of the Executive or of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when  Sir Magnus,  in this place and in articles, has attacked the excessive use of executive power. 
One question with which members of all political parties should concern themselves is the use of this power and the degree to which there is growing alienation of sizable sections of the Australian community because of the way in which those who hold power exercise that power. It seems to me that it is part of the responsibility of those who have power to exercise it in such a way to show that they take into consideration the minority views which exist within the community. This is one of the surest ways to avoid the sorts of unfortunate and dreadful incidents which have taken place in recent years. I do not refer particularly to our country but to the world scene. I think we have all been appalled at the development of terrorism, and we all deplore it. Of course, it happens in other countries. My colleague  Senator Colston  referred to one or two incidents that have taken place in the parliamentary scene, but in Europe attempts to kidnap or murder industrialists have been made by those whom now we have to recognise and identify as being alienated from the society in which they live. 
I doubt whether any of the security proposals, taken in isolation, will achieve the results suggested by the Presiding Officers or by the Prime Minister. I would prefer to see the exercise of legislative power. I do not believe the real power resides in Parliament, but others believe that there is some purpose in the parliamentary process and that governments in fact do exercise the major power. To that extent a degree of responsibility rests upon the government of the day. Are we to take steps which reflect the public consensus or are we to be provocative? We may well be provocative on the question of uranium. It must be conceded that it is an issue on which there are strongly held views within the Australian community, as there were on the war in Vietnam. If governments blithely ignore these strongly held views, it is likely that confrontation will lead to further alienation. I trust and hope that events do not lead to what has happened in other countries on other issues. But be that as it may, I cannot conceive that we have taken these rather extraordinary steps. I hope that some of the more senior members of the Government who have been concerned about the use of arbitrary power and the rights of Parliament express wherever they can the need to preserve, as far as is practicable, the rights of members of parliament and the rights of citizens to assemble and to present a point of view. I am sure that if there had been a proper parliamentary debate on these matters before the arbitrary decision was made much of the concern and many of the difficulties that members have experienced could have been avoided. 
I happened to be in the position today of being seriously embarrassed. Several weeks ago I invited an important official from a foreign embassy to lunch. He was not permitted to come to my office in order to have lunch with me today. I was required, so an attendant said, to go to King's Hall, get a badge and personally escort my guest to the dining room. I do not consider that it is part of my responsibilities to be a courier for any person. I should not be rung up by an attendant and told that it is my responsibility to go to King's Hall and identify a person and escort him into the building. Nor do I consider it the responsibility of the Presiding Officers to say whether we shall or shall not wear a badge of office. I can remember within the last couple of years an issue arising in this place about members wearing badges displaying the words Bight the Wrong' and 'Fraser Must Go' and whether those sorts of badges should or should not be worn within the Parliament. Now it has been suggested seriously that we should wear badges of identification. I believe that such a requirement would be an infringement. I might be wrong in that judgment but I am entitled to express that view before somebody makes the decision. I regard freedom of movement in this place as one of my privileges that ought not be jeopardised without my being consulted. That is the issue that has to be considered. 
The whole issue of security has arisen because somebody in the Government, some person in authority- it may well have been the Prime Minister but I will not condemn him for it because I do not know- very foolishly made a decision to hold an international conference in an area of Sydney that must be regarded as one of the most congested and least able to be protected. I deplore and condemn unequivocally the fact that a bombing took place and that innocent people lost their lives. 
But I could not think of a worse decision. 
Not in hindsight; at any time. In Canberra it could have been organised in a way in which maximum security could have been preserved, particularly in the light of so many instances of attack upon those who represent the country of India and those who hold strong views about Lee Kuan Yew. These are provocative areas. From international experience, we must have known that there was a likelihood that some incident would take place. One need only look at the way in which public figures have been attacked.  President  Kennedy, Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy were assassinated, the leader of the Japanese Socialist Party was stabbed to death. Another incident involved the Prime Minister of South Africa. Time and again public figures have been subjected to attacks from which they were allegedly in a position to be protected.  President  Kennedy was a man who would in normal circumstances have been as safe as any citizen could be. Yet he was assassinated in his own country, despite security arrangements for his protection. 
Following those killings, the Hilton incident or countless other incidents, have we ever seen action taken by those in authority to reprimand or in any way to penalise those who failed in their jobs? We have not been told, for example, whether the persons responsible for the security of the Hilton Hotel and the failure to protect the international visitors there ever had disciplinary action taken against them. One can go through incident after incident only to find that for some unknown reason no steps have been taken to bring home to those who must be charged with the responsibility of protecting these people - 
It is very easy for a member of a Government party to try to put the blame on the New South Wales Police Force because New South Wales happens to be currently under the leadership of a Labor Government. But that is not what we are concerned about. The fact is that regardless of whether the Commonwealth Police, the security organisations or the New South Wales State Police were responsible, we know not of any disciplinary action taken here or anywhere else in the world. The fact that these incidents take place highlights how difficult it is for us to establish in Parliament in Canberra a system that will protect the institution, the staff and the members of the Parliament. 
I think it is part of our responsibility, as  Senator Missen  has rightly said, to create the conditions that will enable citizens to have unhindered use of this place and unhindered use of us. But to do that we need to create a political climate. I doubt whether that political climate has been created. I think that it is part of the responsibility that rests within the Parliament to ensure that that climate is created; that citizens feel that they can come here unhindered, unnoticed and unregistered. I am told that if somebody wants to see me, as a member of parliament unannounced, that person has to register at the front desk and then- according to what I have been told today- I have to leave my place and escort that person. As  Senator Missen  correctly said, there are many occasions when persons come here to see Opposition members about a particular issue and then require the right to interview members of other parties, the Government parties. 
These sorts of matters have not been thought through sufficiently. In our desire to increase the security of this building we have overlooked some of these important fundamentals. I do not say that I have the answers to them. But surely they are. matters that ought to come within the purview of the Privileges Committee. They are matters that ought to be examined very closely. Members who have enough to do here with inadequate staff should not be required to use their time and energy in accompanying people from one place to another. Yet that is what has been suggested. I imagine that, first and foremost, the principle that has existed since Cromwell's time of the citizens having free and unfettered rights to the King's Hall and to their members of Parliament must be preserved at all costs. I have had occasion, particularly after I was elected to the executive of my Party as a shadow Minister, to have discussions with a wide ranging group of people. Those people would not have been prepared to discuss matters with me here over a meal, purely on an advisory basis, if they had been required to be identified at the front desk. 
I am just asking the Government senators to consider that situation because it might well be that they could be placed in that position at a later time. Such is the pendulum of history. As  Senator Withers  correctly said a few weeks ago when we were talking about staff, it is not until we lose something that we realise what we have lost. A great number of people want to see us for a whole variety of reasons.  Senator Missen  correctly put his finger on the position when he mentioned the new Australian or migrant element in our community. I have spoken to a few people about the current problem that exists in Sydney. How easily these people are led by professionals about what they should and should not do to those who allegedly are in authority. How easily they accept advice and do what they are told will be in their best interests. Honourable senators will concede that because of language and cultural difficulties and differences many people are easily influenced. Yet they are the people who all of us in our respective political positions and parties want to help. No impediment should be placed in front of these people. Just imagine if some person with a language difficulty came to this place to talk to any Government or Opposition senator today about the problem I mentioned. Imagine how they would be affected by being required to go through the processes which have been put into effect. 

 Mr President, I do not doubt your sincerity, or that of  Mr Speaker,  in taking the steps that you did. I doubt the wisdom of implementing the procedures in the way in which this was done. I shall give an example to illustrate my point. On Friday last a memo was sent out by the Usher of the Black Rod- I gather it may have been put in my office on Friday; it certainly was there when I arrived this morning- telling me that ministerial and senators' staff and officers of the Senate department and so forth and so on would be required as from yesterday, to carry out certain procedures. It happened that my staff member drove from Sydney this morning and had some difficulties. I did not know of the memo until I had opened my correspondence. He certainly did not know of it. I was at a meeting of my Party Executive at the time. If there was some urgency in these matters at least a telegram could have been sent to us in Sydney last week. These procedures could have been introduced following the conclusion of this debate. These sorts of irritants could have been avoided. They should have been avoided. I am sure that through the experiences that we are all having- I include you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker-  we will become aware of more and more of these difficulties which will accrue in the implementation of these security arrangements. 
I conclude by emphasising the point that I find myself in complete agreement with  Senator Missen:  We must create the right political climate so that every citizen who wants to see us, rightly or wrongly about any issue, can see us in this place. Whatever steps are necessary to protect the security of this place must not impinge upon that fundamental right. 
We recognise that if people have ulterior motives in their minds in respect of this building, the staff or members, the steps that have been taken can in no way be substituted for the right of the citizens to see their members of parliament. If somebody has it in mind, if the climate of confrontation and dissatisfaction has been created to a major degree about the way in which the Government or the Parliament is operating, a premeditated action can and will take place. No matter what security measures we may take here, such as the wearing of badges and putting more attendants and police in King's Hall, none of these steps will prevent a tragedy if the climate is such as it has been- and Government senators certainly recognise its existencefollowing the events of 1 1 November 1975 when passions were aroused. That sort of climate should be avoided by the Government if it is really sincere about protecting the institution and those who work in this building. 
I think it would be true to say that we are satisfied that Government senators have conceded their support for the Opposition amendment because it meets to some extent the disagreements that we have expressed in this debate. I hope that the Senate will adopt the compromise proposition. I personally am prepared to support it because I think it will give to a Committee of the Parliament an opportunity to put into effect the basic aims of protecting not only the Parliament but also the rights and privileges of members. 
One can agree with the humanitarian approach of  Senator Kilgariff  to the very shameful events that took place in Timor in 1 975 and one can share his concern for the plight of the people who are suffering as a result of the invasion by and the aggression of the Indonesian Government. However, it is not just a question of being concerned or ashamed about the events that took place in 1 975; it is also a question of our accepting some of the responsibility for them. These events must go down as something for which the people of Indonesia must accept full responsibility, and the people of Australia through their successive governments also must accept some share of the responsibility. The people of Timor have been denied the fundamental principles to which we as a member of the United Nations have pledged our adherence, that is, the right of self-determination. It is suggested that it is wrong for the Opposition to attempt to use the forum of the Parliament to discuss the unilateral decision that was made by  Mr Peacock,  at the behest of  Mr Fraser,  on 20 January 1978 to accord de facto recognition to an event which  Senator Kilgariff  and others on the Government side have condemned as an unnecessary intrusion into the domestic affairs of a small country in the Asian region. 
I am somewhat disturbed to find that those who are speaking from the Government side on this occasion can be generally classified as being people who have not raised their voices about aggression in times past although I concede that one or two honourable senators from the Government side have expressed concern, as we have on this side of the chamber. This is not entirely a question of what took place in 1975; it is also a question of being consistent in our approach to those events and to the denial of the right of the people of Timor to determine their own affairs. I find it strange that a person with the standing in this place of  Senator Sim,  who regards himself as an articulate spokesman on foreign affairs, should so distort the facts of what happened in 1974 and 1975 when the fascist dictatorship in Portugal collapsed and the opportunity presented itself to the indigenous people of East Timor to make an act of selfdetermination. 

 Senator Sim referred to the United Nations in a disparaging way and ignored the basic facts that he claimed he was going to express in the debate and the documents of the United Nations which bear out the historical development during 1974 and 1975. He did not look at the resolution which was adopted by the United Nations on 12 December 1975 when this Government was in power and which called for the withdrawal of Indonesian troops from East Timor. The Australian Government then joined with the overwhelming majority of the nations of the world in a vote of 72 to 10, with 43 abstentions. Then there was a further resolution of the United Nations in about the same period when the Security Council, having noted the statements of the representatives of Portugal and Indonesia and having heard the representatives of the people of East Timor, called upon the Government of Indonesia to withdraw without delay all its forces from the territory. This resolution was adopted unanimously by the United Nations organisation, which included the major powers, and in my view indicted for all time the action taken by Indonesia. 
We on this side of the chamber have been assailed every time this question has been debated by comments about the inadequacies of the approach of the Whitlam Government to Indonesia, but what did  Mr Peacock  say when he was the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs? In a media release of 3 September 1975, the Honourable Andrew Peacock M.P., the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, said: 
Labor's refusal to become involved in the problems of Timor may force Indonesia into reluctant unilateral intervention. 
There was no condemnation in that statement. I am quoting from only part of the statement but there is nothing in it which shows that he condemned any suggestion of Indonesian intervention.  Mr Peacock  went on to say: 
Caught between a sensible desire to appreciate Indonesia's concern and the pressure of its own Left Wing . . . 
He was referring to those of us of left, right and centre complexion in the Australian Labor Party who were raising these matters with the Government and the then Prime Minister-  whose only response to a complex situation of civil war is to shout 'self-determination ', it is paralysed by indecision. 
That was said by  Mr Peacock.  But what did he do when he became the Minister for Foreign Affairs? He is quoted in the  Daily Telegraph  on 27 November 1975 assaying: 
But you must understand Indonesia has been pretty patient for a lengthy period of time while countries like Australia have washed their hands of the matter. 
The fact is that  Mr Peacock  had the opportunity to do something from 1 1 November when he knew that Indonesian forces were going to be involved in an invasion in Timor. He then had the responsibility; he had assumed it from former  Senator Willesee.  But what did an article on the front page of the  Canberra Times  on 3 1 May 1 976 have to say? It stated that at the behest ofthe Australian Ambassador in Indonesia- this has not been denied- 'a ministerial statement was altered last year to conceal the fact that Australia knew Indonesian troops were active in East Timor more than a month before the all-out Indonesian invasion of the territory on December 7 '. So  Mr Peacock, Mr Fraser  and this Government knew 24 days before. It is true, as I will concede, that the Whitlam Government similarly knew prior to that, but this Government also knew 24 days beforehand and had the opportunity to take the initiatives that it now condemns the Labor Government for failing to take. It did precisely nothing. 
Let us remember what the political climate was in this country at that time. In this chamber the very conservative hawks who speak on matters of so-called morality were setting about dismembering a properly-constituted Labor 
Government. Whatever might have been the motivation or lack of motivation on the part of the Labor Government at that time, we were in fact fighting for our very lives in this particular place. Of course  Mr Peacock  and the Government spokesmen ignore the fact that the Indonesian representatives themselves have said publicly that Portuguese Timor was never part of the Dutch East Indies and that they made no claim upon it. When we talk about morality and about integrity we have to have regard to the inability of this Government to defend its inaction in November-December 1 975 and in the period subsequent to that. 
What of  Mr Peacock? Mr Peacock  is a man who has double standards. He expressed those double standards last year when he spoke at the United Nations on the occasion of Australia's election to the Human Rights Commission. He said: 
Australia takes its human rights obligations seriously. Our election to the United Nations Human Rights Commission in May of this year gives us an additional reason for doing so. 
He then went on with a great deal of rhetoric about the need to recognise the rights of all human beings. We have not done so in respect of our attitude to East Timor. Whatever criticism might be levelled at the failure of those of us in our Party to move the Government in 1975 is equally applicable to the failure of the hawks and the doves in the Fraser-Anthony Government to take any meaningful steps at that time. 

 Mr Fraser and  Mr Peacock  went to Jakarta on two occasions. I wish to refer honourable senators to an editorial in the  Age  of 1 9 April 1 976 which reads: 
Australia's tougher stance towards Indonesia over the Portuguese Timor issue appears to be paying dividends. Admittedly, there is no occasion for dancing in the streets, but the Foreign Affairs Minister,  Mr Peacock,  has returned from Jakarta apparently with several concessions. Among these are Indonesia's assurance of continued withdrawal of its 'volunteer' troops . . . 
That may be Peacock's understanding, but it is poppycock. We know- and  Mr Harry  said so when this matter was being discussed at the United Nations in 1977- that the Australian Government was convinced of the Indonesian 's good intentions to withdraw their troops from Portuguese Timor. The editorial continues:   . . and its agreement - 
That is, the Indonesian Government's agreement-  to allow the Red Cross back into the territory. 
That was in 1976- within a couple of weeks of being almost two years ago. Is there any Government supporter who can stand up and say that 
Indonesia has permitted the International Red Cross to go into Portuguese Timor? We know the frustrations that were placed in the way of the United Nations representative, Winspeare Guicciardi. We know that his attempts to get to Portuguese Timor and to evaluate for the United Nations what was happening in that former colony were obstructed. 
Let us examine the alacrity with which the United Nations has dealt with the Middle East problems and the Israeli invasion of South Lebanon. Within a matter of days following that unfortunate incident, the United Nations was able to move because the Arab states and the major powers were able to bring sufficient pressure to bear upon the Israeli Government to permit the withdrawal of troops and their substitution by United Nations forces. 
Where was the initiative taken by the Australian Government in the United Nations with regard to East Timor? Where were the steps taken to see that that sort of approach, which was within the province of the Australian Government, which was part of its responsibility to act in this way and to use its good offices, was indeed implemented at that very meeting of the United Nations organisation that was dealing with the problem? A decisive decision could have been made at that time if we were concerned with the principles of self-determination, if we were concerned with the human rights of the people of Timor. But we remained silent. We failed the people of Timor. It is in the light of that situation that we believe the Senate is correctly discussing the unilateral action taken by this Government. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: 'the Bill be withdrawn until it has been referred to the current meeting of the 
National Aboriginal Conference in Canberra and then redrafted to (a) take into account their suggestions; (b) make provision for acquisition of reserves existing at 3 1 March 1978 and vesting them in the relevant Aboriginal and Islander communities; and (c) give effective control of reserves to the Aboriginal and Islander communities living on those reserves. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. He will recall that I asked him a question several weeks ago regarding the appointment of  Mr Wollaston.  Is it government policy in disposing of Commonwealth property which is declared surplus to Commonwealth requirements that former owners or government instrumentalities are given the right to repurchase or acquire the property and that all other disposals are carried out by public sale, auction or tender? Were these procedures established prior to or since the appointment of  Mr Wollaston?  Can the Minister say whether these procedures are now government policy and are followed in every circumstance? 
As the Opposition does not intend to take unnecessary time, I suggest that we take the Opposition 's first four amendments together. 
In those circumstances I wonder whether the Minister might explain, if the Government accepts the principle that the Queensland Government has an opportunity of a legal challenge and might avail itself of that opportunity in what circumstances the Government believes that we can get the co-operation of the Queensland Government, particularly in view of what has been said in a public statement by both the Queensland Minister,  Mr Porter,  and the Premier himself. It seems that whatever course of action is available to us, whether it be moral persuasion, co-operation or some form of dialogue that might be developed, or legal challenge, we are probably only putting off the day of reckoning in respect of the differences in emphasis between us and the Queensland Government. 
After all, yesterday I heard Government supporters saying that they supported a policy of assimilation for Aborigines. That flies in the opposite direction to the Government's stated policy of self-management. One cannot have an assimilation policy as well as a policy of selfdetermination. So it seems- and I should like the Minister to comment on this-that the next two or three weeks, probably into next month and even until the Parliament goes into recess, we may find ourselves involved in non co-operation and delaying tactics. When we find that the national Parliament has to resort to more determined action we may still be subject to legal challenge. This is what lies in the back of the minds of members of the Opposition. We have to determine as soon as possible just what we are aiming to achieve. That is expressed in the amendments which the Opposition introduced for consideration by the House of Representatives and the Senate. We should resolve the matter and not leave it in limbo, which seems to us to be the inevitable result. 
-With the concurrence of the Committee, I propose to deal with the four circulated amendments to clause 5 because they all deal with a common principle which we want to establish and which I submit, on the basis of the point that has been raised by  Senator Wright  in the previous discussion, would at least to some extent restrict the powers of the Minister. In effect the amendments propose that the words 'the Minister may' be substituted for the words 'the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be '. I believe there is some substance in the matter that was raised by  Senator Wright.  Faced as we are and restricted as we are with difficulties in relation to the passage of this Bill, it is rather difficult to find a formula with which to deal with the very valid points that  Senator Wright  has raised. 
Nevertheless, the four amendments, which are identical, have as their objective the placing at least of a restraint of sorts upon the Minister, in that he will be required to make a decision within 30 days. Whether that decision be good or bad, he would certainly be obligated to seek the opinion of others in the process of making such a decision. Under the legislation as it now stands, he could just leave the matter in the too-hard basket and sit on it for unlimited time. That is hardly the way in which this fairly responsible Minister would deal with a matter. But we know that Ministers change and governments change. The Bill as it is presently drafted vests in him an unfettered power which ought to be subject to at least some control. In many ways I would prefer to put many of these matters under the control of the Parliament, but we do not have that prerogative at the moment. 
However, in applying myself particularly to the views expressed by  Senator Wright,  he may see that there are in clause 5 at least some opportunities for us to suggest to the Committee a method of placing a minor restriction on the Minister. After all, a period of 30 days would at least allow for public debate and for contending points of view to be publicly placed before the Minister and even before the Parliament. That would allow for some amelioration if he believed that he did not have to act. Of course, that is what is proposed in the legislation. Accordingly, I move: 
In sub-clause (1), leave out 'the Minister may', insert the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (2), leave out 'the Minister may', insert the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (3), leave out 'the Minister may', insert the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
In sub-clause (4), leave out 'the Minister may', insert the Minister shall, within 30 days after receiving the request or being so satisfied, as the case may be, '. 
It seems to us that these clauses are attempting to establish principles of selfmanagement. That is how we understand the legislation. That principle has to be determined very clearly. We see the purpose of these clauses to give the Aborigines and the Islanders control of their own affairs- the day to day matters, the routine matters, the administrative matters and the matters affecting the whole gamut of local affairs. We are concerned whether the legislation achieves that objective or whether in fact at a point of conflict the Minister can just decide not to act on any conflict that may eventuate. We have seen, from what has been said in the second reading debate, an evolution in attitudes not only in this Parliament and the Australian community but also amongst Aboriginals and Islanders. We are concerned, in the points of conflict that may arise, that the Minister, because of the difficulties of interpretation or even of changing attitudes, can determine to take no action at all and not resolve the matter to the satisfaction of the community. That is the point we feel ought to have some limitations placed upon it. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Declaration of Aboriginal Councils or Island Councils for the purposes of this Act). 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4), leave out 'that pan of. 
In sub-clause (4), leave out 'that is appropriated for the use of the Community'. 
Sub-clause (4), as it stands, seems to envisage the subdivision of the reserve into parts controlled by the councils and parts not controlled by the councils. In other words we are concerned with the division of responsibilities as well as divisions of the reserve itself. We believe, if there is to be any genuine act of self-determination, the powers of the council which has been elected or appointed under this legislation must extend over all of the reserve land. That is the way we understand the purpose of the legislation. We would like the views of the Minister. We do not believe a situation should develop where one part of a reserve remains under the control of the council and another part does not. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), after 'available' insert 'with the consent of the Minister,'. 
As was indicated in the second reading debate, services and responsibilities are very important matters from the point of view of Aboriginal communities. I was somewhat shocked to hear  Senator Wood  suggest that one of the reasons why we have an intransigent position with the Queensland Government in regard to selfmanagement and the problems of Aurukun and Mornington Island is because of the failure to provide community facilities which clearly fall within the province of the Queensland Government. To some extent there is financial assistance from the Australian Government. The provision of services and their relationship to the councils and to the communities has to be carefully examined. We have to see whether we can provide the services in a way that does not affect the rights of the councils or the Aborigines on the reserves. The purpose of our amendment is to offer some protection particularly to the remote Aboriginal communities which may be dissatisfied either with the nature of services delivered or the manner of their delivery. We are concerned particularly with the remote settlements. 
The amendment provides that the Minister must consent to agencies other than the councils providing services listed in clause 9(1). The services listed deal with facilities that are normally provided by local, State and Federal authorities in Australia- for example, health, sewerage, water and electricity supply and communications. Normally these are a Federal as well as a State responsibility. So the effect of this amendment would be to guard against unscruplous administrative harassment on the part of any authority, but more particularly, as we are dealing with problems in Queensland, by the Queensland Government, and making the continued provision of services conditional upon the consent of the minister responsible for Aboriginal affairs in that State. Surely in this area there ought to be a recognition by the Minister, the Senate and the Government generally that where there is a problem with an agency appointed by the Queensland Government which does or does not carry out its obligations properly, consent should be reserved. 
This has been expressed in many other provisions of the legislation. The consent of the Federal Minister can be sought in order to provide, particularly in the outback communities, the sort of services which are expected in a modern community even though they may be designated a remote community. Nevertheless there are problems. Should they arise, as undoubtedly they have arisen in the past and undoubtedly will arise in the future, we ought not to leave that responsibility in the State province but rather give those communities the opportunity to seek the protection of the Federal authority. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clauses 4 and 5, insert the following subclauses: 
A by-law has no effect until it is received by the Minister.' 
Where the Minister receives a copy of any by-laws, he shall cause a copy of the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament on the first sitting day of that House after the day on which he receives a copy of those by-laws. ' 
I think the Senate and the Australian community ought to be aware that the establishment of these councils is in fact the establishment of a great number of what are in effect self-management organisations and local government authorities, insofar as they will be endeavouring to fulfil the obligations of local communities to run their own affairs, subject of course to some control. As we know, local government authorities are subject, in varying degrees in the six States, to the control of the State Minister for local government, and that the local government authorities in the territories are subject to the control of the Parliament. 
By-laws are subject to some exercise of power by a higher authority. We believe that in those circumstances where by-laws are passed with relationship to the affairs in the local community, they should in the first instance be made available to the Minister and in the second instance to the Parliament, to ensure that they represent the views of the Council which claims to represent the views of the local community. I formally move that amendment, the effect of which would be that the by-laws would in the first instance be submitted to the Minister and in the second instance would be subject to the approval of the Parliament. 
I move: 
Leave out the sub-clause (  9 ). 
We believe that this is a very important matter that ought to be considered even though I realise that the Committee is racing against the clock in respect of dealing with this legislation. We are dealing with an attempt, through the legislation, to say that a by-law does not apply in relation to a person who is not an Aboriginal or an Islander. This provision seems to us to ignore completely the vital recommendations that were made by  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report in which he dealt so eloquently with the problems of Aboriginals. Like him, we are of the opinion that unless Aboriginal communities have the power to require non-Aboriginal residents or visitors to observe standards of behaviour- normal standards of behaviour- which are acceptable to those communities, social disintegration may well take place. 
It seems rather absurd to think that a code of behaviour which is applied to those who live within the reserves, those who are subject to government by a council, should not apply to all of those who come onto the reserves. Surely we must recognise the fact that under the Queensland legislation permits are issued to enable people to go onto the reserves. The whole history of whites and blacks in Australia indicates that it is the behaviour of whites that is open to a great deal of question. Surely I do not have to remind the Committee of the appalling inroads that alcohol has made in Aboriginal communities or the unwanted sexual advances that have been made by non-Aboriginal men upon the traditional Aboriginal culture. We believe that non-Aboriginal guests in an Aboriginal community should be expected to observe the traditions, the by-laws and the codes of that community just as a visitor to Canberra, for example, is expected to accept the by-laws that operate here. It is no excuse for someone  from  Queensland, Western Australia, Victoria or New South Wales who breaks the by-laws in Canberra in respect of littering to say: 'I am a visitor here, therefore I am not subject to the by-laws or the ordinances that operate '. 
Why is there a policy of discrimination or differentiation in respect of Aboriginal reserves? We are at a loss to understand why the Government should persist with the view that the bylaws which operate for all people who are resident on the reserves and all the Aborigines and Islanders who visit the reserves should not apply to someone of another culture who comes onto the reserves. These people shall not be subjected to the same standards which are applied to those who live on the reserves. This seems to us an absurd proposition. In many respects the fact that there are to be exceptions to the rule is against the whole tenor of the legislation. If I have to use a euphemism, I would say 'When in Rome do as the Romans do'. That is the sort of approach that ought to be applied in this case. We seriously put the view to the Ministerperhaps more seriously than we have done in respect of all the other amendments- that this amendment is worthy of more mature consideration by the Government. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clause: 
( 1 ) No person not being an Aboriginal or Islander shall reside on or visit a reserve or community without the permission of the Council or by the consent of the Minister. 

 ) No person being an Aboriginal or Islander will be prevented from residing on or visiting a reserve or community except by the decision of the Council and with the consent of the Minister. 
Where premises situated on a Reserve to which this Act applies, or on which there is established a Community to which this Act applies, are occupied by an Aboriginal or Islander, a person is not entitled, without the consent of the Aboriginal or Islander, to enter those premises unless, if the Reserve on which those premises are situated were not a Reserve, the entry would not be unlawful. '. 
This is probably the most fundamental amendment which the Opposition has. The first two parts of this amendment seek to give a council control over entry to or residence on a reserve. Unless this is done the Bill will fail to establish the right of Aboriginal councils to restrict entry, particularly of non-Aboriginals, on their reserves. The Opposition believes that the Bill is badly drafted for once again it appears to rely entirely on the Queensland Aborigines Act and the Queensland Torres Strait Islanders Act to establish the principle for the issue of permits. However, the future of the Queensland legislation is under review. It expired in the first instance at the beginning of this year but has recently been re-gazetted but, as we understand the statements of the  Premier  of Queensland, those Acts will be effective only until 30 June and it is not possible for a further re-gazettal to take place. 
The Opposition has two objections to relying upon the Queensland Acts and I put it to the 
Committee that they are substantial objections. Firstly, it would leave the effect of the Act we are discussing contingent upon the Queensland Premier not altering the regulations under this legislation. It would be possible for the Premier to subvert the intention of this Parliament by a simple administrative device. Secondly, the Queensland legislation, which expires in less that three months and may not be continued in the form in which it now operates, complements this clause. This is a bad situation. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  It being 4.30 p.m., under sessional order I put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
It is simply bad law for this clause to rely almost entirely on Queensland Parliament Acts whose future is so uncertain. It has been argued in another place that the provisions of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act 1 975 cover our objections to this clause and my colleagues in another place raised this very matter. The definition of 'Reserve' on page 2 of this legislation relies upon Acts of the Queensland Parliament. This leaves the whole system of Aboriginal regulation of entry to reserves vulnerable to sabotage by the Queensland Administration and uncertain because of the doubts about the future of that legislation. It seems to us untenable for Aboriginal communities to be further distressed by this uncertainty and confusion. The effect of our amendment is simply to clear up this confusion, to make the legislation stand on its own and to protect it from legislative and administrative sabotage by the Queensland Government. 
We have been debating problems arising from this Bill. The debate has shown that there are difficulties with the legislation, but every amendment which the Opposition has moved so far has been defeated. However, the fact that we are requiring the legislation to be considered and possibly further examined at the third reading stage only highlights that there are defects in this legislation. If that was not so the Government would feel confident that all the difficulties that have been raised in the debate had been overcome. Clearly the fact that the Government acknowledges that the matter needs to be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is indicative of the existence within the legislation of certain deficiencies which need to receive further consideration. It is the integrity of this Parliament that is at stake. The legislation as it stands provides a perfect opportunity for the oft-stated claims of the Premier of Queensland and his Minister that Queensland will challenge the legislation. This could hold the Parliament and the public up to ridicule and get the Federal Government involved in a legal gymnastic exercise which, it seems to us, will start next Monday. 
The amendments that we propose put into clear unequivocal language the intention of clause 10 but we do not believe that that intention is achieved by the clause as it now stands. It confers on Aboriginal communities no more rights than are possessed by any other Australian landholder although it does offer real power to those communities which, surely, is important. As I mentioned earlier, the word 'premises' appearing in both the Federal and State Acts means 'land'. We non-Aboriginals have in our law and our traditions the right to deny people access to our premises. Surely that right ought to be written into the legislation and given to the Aboriginal communities so that persons living in those communities who regard the land as their premises have the right to determine entry. It is not extending to Aborigines what is not already the legal and established right of other Australians. 
I think this amendment ought to be considered in the light of that conclusion. I think it is the responsibility of the Parliament to ensure both the effectiveness and the integrity of this legislation. I do not think that I can understate the importance of this amendment. I should like the Minister to look carefully at what we are saying and to give Aboriginal communities the right to decide who shall come onto their reserves, who shall live on their reserves and what shall take place on those reserves. 
I move: 
. In sub-clause ( 1 ), after ' available to ',  , insert  'or vest in '. 
In sub-clause (2), after 'available', insert 'to, or vesting land in, a Council '. 
These amendments are designed to strengthen the relative provisions of the Bill relating to the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth for Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. The terminology used in both of these sub-clauses does not provide, as many of the Aboriginal communities believe, for ownership of land, particularly in traditional tribal areas.  Mr Justice  Woodward, the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Rights Commission, said in his report: 
I have no doubt about the nature of the title - 
He was referring to the title of land which should go to Aborigines-  which should be granted. In spite of a number of submissions to the contrary effect from pastoral and other interests in the Northern Territory, I regard any form of leasehold title as inadequate to satisfy either the announced intentions of the Government or the expectation of Aborigines. I am conscious of the fact that there is a general trend in the community towards leasehold rather than freehold titles, but I accept the submission of the Central Land Council that any form of leasehold title would simply not be acceptable to 
Aborigines ' as a satisfactory or proper solution to their aspirations ' in the case of reserve lands. 
I do not have time to refer to the editorials in the  Age  or the  Sydney Morning Herald  about this whole question of title to Aboriginal lands, but notwithstanding the trepidation the Australian Government has about land rights, I find it rather unusual that a member of the Labor Party should be calling upon the Government to apply its own policy which was expressly established in its Aboriginal program. The Government accepts the principle of land rights but this legislation does not fully cover those eventualities. As these sub-clauses stand at the moment, Aborigines may be granted the use of tribal areas by the Commonwealth; they do not provide for ownership. 
I know that this is neither the time nor the place to argue the question of ownership, but I have just been handed petitions from 594 Aborigines. I do not propose to submit them because, as I say, this is neither the time nor the place to do so. These petitions are from people at Aurukun, Kowanyama and Mornington Island and they request that the Federal Government recognise land rights in the States such as Queensland in a similar manner to the recognition of land rights in the Northern Territory, that is, to enact an Aboriginal Land Rights Act for Queensland'. I am told that this petition has now been signed by 14 out of the 15 chairmen in the Aboriginal communities in Queensland. So, starting with the Woodward Commission and going right through to the present day, there has been an appreciation by the Aborigines of the need for land rights to be recognised as an essential right. As this Bill stands at the moment, there is no provision for the transfer of titles to Aborigines. This submission by the Government could have disastrous effects. It will certainly be a disappointing response to the general demands by Aborigines in recent years and to the acceptance of the principle which has been applied in the Northern Territory. 
This legislation regarding land rights for Aboriginal traditional areas and their normal rights pertaining to other members of the community does not satisfy Aboriginal wishes. Also, it leaves a major loophole in the legislation which clearly contradicts the previous legislation passed by the Parliament. Indeed it may hamstring the Commonwealth on future projects as to the question of ownership in tribal areas. The amendments I have moved are designed to provide ownership of lands for Aborigines whilst retaining the options open to the Commonwealth. We believe that it would be recreant on the Parliament's pan if we were not to establish this principle. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the devastating contents of the report of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission, which details the high level of corporate crime in New South Wales over many years? Was the matter of corporate crime raised at the recent meeting of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General and when does the Government intend to legislate federally on the securities and exchange report and its recommendations, which would assist materially to curb corporate criminality? 
The Opposition gives its support to the motion that has been moved by  Senator Bonner.  We do so without equivocation because, as was indicated in the debate at the second reading stage and in the Committee of the Whole on the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves and Communities SelfManagement) Bill last week, we feel that there are sufficient anomalies and ambiguities to warrant further consideration of the perspectives and the strategy that the Commonwealth Government has set itself in dealing with the Aborigines in Queensland. 
I think it must be said, however, that in retrospect the motion is a little late in seeking to achieve the objectives that  Senator Bonner  nas set it. Almost a month ago a debate took place in the Senate from which emerged a degree of consensus about the problems at Aurukun and Mornington Island. Since then a political dogfight has developed between the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Mr Porter,  particularly the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  and the Commonwealth Government. At some stage it developed into a verbal slanging match between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Queensland Premier. 
Of course, in order to resolve the matter the Commonwealth Government saw fit to introduce at very short notice important legislationit is now an Act- which established a number of important new principles. However, it has to be said that in the process of that debate which concluded at 4.55 p.m. last Friday, the Premier of Queensland carried out his threats and has effectively checkmated the Federal Government and certainly nullified the endeavours that were embodied in the legislation and in the debates that ensued. I think that those honourable senators who refused to examine properly the amendments, which were conceded by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to be genuine and designed to prevent the Premier of Queensland from moving in the way that he did, have now contributed towards creating the new crisis. 
There is no doubt that at the moment in this conflict of opinion, in the conflict of tactics and in the conflict of play that has occurred over the last several weeks, the initiative has swung back to Queensland. As I was moving the last of the amendments at about 4.45 p.m. last Friday, probably there was a general staff meeting of the Queensland Government. Once the Senate passed the legislation, over the wires came the decision of the Queensland Government to nullify it and to checkmate the decisions that the Senate had ratified. 
At this point, the Commonwealth has been checkmated. It must be recognised that the Premier of Queensland has been able to destroy effectively the Commonwealth Government's position for the time being. As I have pointed out and as has been pointed out by other honourable senators, we are dealing with a rogue elephant. We are dealing with a person who glorifies in confrontation. The whole thrust of his policies over recent years has been to paint Canberra as an evil source of power to portray himself as the protector of the rights of people. The Commonwealth Government has taken a certain view. I refer to what  Senator Guilfoyle  said in the debate on the Bill last week. During the Committee stage of the Bill on Friday afternoon the Minister said:   the Bill aims to prevent the Queensland Government from doing what it has announced it will do and that is to take over the direct administration of the two communities. 
Are they the facts? The Minister continued: 
If the Queensland Government takes action to change the status of the reserves, the Government will be able to consider the position at that time and decide whatever future action of a legislative kind or any other kind is appropriate. 
It must be recognised that, in this power conflict between the rights of the Queensland Premier to determine the lifestyle of Aborigines in Queensland and the determination of this Government and this Parliament to free them from that influence and to give them the rights of self-determination and self-management, the Aborigines have become the meat in the sandwich. There must be tremendous confusion at Aurukun and Mornington Island at this moment. The people must be asking: 'What are politicians? They have failed us'. I accept the urgency plea that was made by the Government,  Senator Bonner  and other honourable senators on Friday for the need to respond to the wishes of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and to pass the legislation to give them protection and an assurance that their rights were to be protected. I wonder what they have felt when half an hour after we had passed that legislation the Premier abolished the reserves which had been in operation for the whole of this century and then said: 'The reserves are now Crown land, and I am king of the situation again '. These were points that we raised in the debate. 
I do not criticise  Senator Missen  for his reluctance and reticence to accept our amendments in the faith that we presented them to the chamber. He said that he did not think our amendments were reaching the problem. I submit to him that the first four amendments we moved which would have placed the situation beyond any legal challenge in regard to the reserves as designated on 3 1 March would have strengthened our hand. When I say 'our hand' I refer to the national authority-the national Parliament. If we had adopted the amendments our position would have been strengthened. It raises in my mind the inabilities of governments- I do not place one government in a different category to the other- to examine seriously amendments put forward by the Opposition. The tendency is to oppose amendments. If governments put forward legislation, oppositions believe they should oppose it. If oppositions put forward amendments, governments believe they should oppose them because they come from the other side of the House. 
Of course, it is in that spirit that I feel and my Party feels that the Government dealt with the debate knowing full well that it had the strongest possible bipartisan support not only of members of the Labor Party in this chamber but also the two other senators on this side of the chamber. It was evident during the second reading debate that those two honourable senators were anxious to give their support to the motivation of the Government. Yet such is the spirit and such is the way in which parliamentary processes have developed that I believe sufficient consideration was not given to what the Opposition said. If our amendments were not acceptable it was up to those honourable senators opposite who appreciated what we were trying to do to come forward with amendments that would have strengthened the position. If any honourable senator opposite had moved such amendments he would have been assured of enjoying a great deal of support from my colleagues  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe  and from myself to achieve the objectives. 
The Minister submitted that there was some legal doubt and constitutional problems associated with the legislation. We cannot accept that. We cannot accept that it has no validity, bearing in mind that no High Court could give a judgment on a subsequent challenge to the legislation contrary to the overwhelming support of the Australian people given to the Australian Government by the referendum. I refer particularly to the views that were expressed by the Queenslanders themselves. 
That was the clearly expressed will of the Australian people. If the honourable senator is suggesting that, in the face of a more than 90 per cent affirmative vote in a referendum in which the issues were clearly espoused and in which the views of the Queenslanders about the areas of responsibility were clearly expressed, the High Court could find some degree of uncertainty or some legal anomaly then it seems to me that there is something wrong with the High Court. After all, part of the process of legal administration is to have regard to the public need. Surely that point should have been and could have been strengthened considerably. 
We have a position now in which Queensland Aborigines on two missions are hesitant about their rights and are unable to evaluate them. We find it difficult to do that here, and we are supposed to be the experts. Newspaper editorial writers make similar comments. How much more difficult must it be for those who do not have the means to understand properly the processes that have developed in those two missions? How much more uncertainty must there be in all the other reserves in Queensland? The people on those reserves must be in a very unhappy state of mind. They must be very uncertain about their rights, even with respect to this legislation. I do not have to convince the Senate of this fact. I think we have had much evidence of the fact that Aborigines in Queensland have been persecuted and are still being persecuted by the Queensland Government. Paternalism still operates to the detriment of the rights of the Aborigines. The public servants are the people who speak and act on their behalf. The Aborigines have restricted democratic rights. If it is suggested that the passage of this legislation- as it was during the Committee stage- as an attempt to rectify those things and to establish the equality of opportunities, facilities and services could be put under legal challenge, certainly there must be something wrong in the state of Denmark. It seems to me that we should have no doubts about our moral and legal responsibilities to the people. I think the Senate has to accept the fact that we failed the Aborigines on Friday by passing that legislation and by not giving more consideration to the amendments that were moved. 
Of course, the motion moved by  Senator Bonner,  which is under consideration, states that we should look at the constitutional, comprehensive and consistent effectiveness of this legislation. Of course we support the motion that he has moved. Is it not an indictment upon us and an indictment upon the framers of the notice of motion- I am referring to those who have the responsibility of preparing the notice of motionthat on the same day that we passed it, when it was part of our responsibility to review the legislation and make the essential remedies, if there were defects in it, notice was given of a motion to set up a committee of the Senate to study it, to see whether it is effective, to see whether it is constitutional and to see whether it is comprehensive. 
I accept that. But it must surely be within the areas of responsibility of those who prepare the legislation and of those who consider it in the Party room to make sure that it is a watertight piece of legislation considering the role that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, has consistently followed in his attitude to the Australian Government. It would make no difference if Neville Bonner, Alan Missen or even  Senator Withers-  I do not want to elevate any honourable senator's more than he should be- were the Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would still take the same dog in the manger attitude. But that does not matter. The fact of the matter is that this man has adopted a negative attitude. He will challenge the legislation or take whatever steps are available to him, as he did less than half an hour after we passed the legislation last Friday. 
-Superficially, the honourable senator's point is valid. That is why we support the motion he has moved. But the fact is that in the course of time the Committee will investigate the matter and hear witnesses. The investigation will have a life of its own. That means, of course, that at a point in time- it may be one, two or three months- the Committee will complete its deliberations but probably not in the present session of Parliament. Then, the Committee having made its deliberations, the Government will have to go through the gamut of deciding whether it will accept those points of view. We have all been members of Parliamentary committees, we have been party to recommendations and we have seen how governmentswhatever their political complexionsreact to such recommendations. In other words, we will have to go through the whole process again of preparing the legislation, getting the Cabinet to make the decision, facing up to the nitty-gritty of responding to the confrontation with the Premier of Queensland and then including matters which, in the opinion of the Committee, should have been included in the original legislation. 
I think we are confronted with some technical difficulties in that Parliament will rise this week for a fortnight's break. One imagines that the Committee will try to meet within that fortnight and hear witnesses. Whether in fact we can do that and report during the one week sitting which is scheduled for June, in the last few days of the session, is a matter about which I have considerable doubts. Because of time I do not think the Committee has the capacity to do that. I have been a chairman of committees, as we all have at various times, and we all know the restraint and constraints which exist. 
I think the Government has to accept the fact that we are involved in a struggle between the conservatives and the rest. The rest are the Aborigines, the militants, the churches, the Australian Labor Party- to use some of  Mr BjelkePetersen's  words- and now the Liberal Party. He might say the rump of the Liberal Party but I hope I can say the majority of the Liberal Party. 
All the southern socialists, and everybody else. There is no doubt that the States have certain constitutional rights and certain capacities to be difficult. That is exactly the problem with which we are concerned. The criticism, which the Opposition tried to make in the best of faith last week, was that the day of confrontation cannot be put off. We should make the decision at the time it needs to be made. We should take steps to see that it is made.  Senator Bonner,  in a question today, referred to people singing hymns on the street. The situation in Queensland just goes on and on. I am told that when  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  was being interviewed in this building today, he said that he had come down to see over Canberra and to take us over. That is the way in which this unusual gentleman from the north seems to regard us in Canberra. He does not see us as part of co-operative federalism, which is supposed to be the policy of this Government. He sees us as playing some sort of a sinister role instead of a role which is responsible and which is designed particularly to help the Aboriginal people in Queensland. The fact that this motion is being moved means, I gather, that it will enjoy the support not only of the 27 members of the Labor Party and of the two Independent members but also of a sufficient number of members of the Government to enable it to be carried. We can perhaps take it for granted today that the motion has overwhelming support. It has sufficient support to show again that within this Parliament there is a determination to pick up the tab and to accept our responsibilities in relation to the Aborigines in Queensland, particularly in the immediate sense, those of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
On the initiative of the Australian Labor Party, the Senate is discussing the problems associated with Commonwealth-State financial relationships- a problem that has plagued Australia since Federation in 1901. It is a question of establishing areas of responsibility and of supplying the necessary finance for the respective arms of government to carry out those responsibilities. We introduce this matter because we believe that Fraser 's federalism is in tatters and is not effectively carrying out the aims set by the present Government when it came to office in 1976. The facts are that the State Premiers criticise the manner in which federalism is operating. I do not know which newspapers honourable senators opposite read, but certainly the newspapers that I read indicate clearly a growing area of disillusionment by the States about the operation of Fraser's federalism. 
I suppose we could be thankful for the fact that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  was the first  speaker  for the Government in this debate, because we were able to see him again on his hobby horse- a hobby horse which I think is best described as a rocking horse- going up and down in the one place. It was a rhetorical speech. Most of his contribution did not deal with the benefits for the States, but was a tirade that we have heard constantly in this place against  Mr Whitlam  and the Whitlam Labor Government. 
The incredible facts are that the statistics and the Budget documents show that in the period of the Labor Government the States received the greatest amount of funds in the history of Federation. I am referring to the amounts they received year by year and to the total amounts paid to the States. It may be true that in the first year of the first Budget of the Whitlam Government the States expressed some concern about the inadequacy of public funding to the States. That was an understandable position, because when Labor came to power in 1 972 it had to pick up the tab for so many years of deficiency so far as community and public services were concerned. In the first six months in office we could not bring down a Budget which would make up for the financial and social neglect that were so characteristic of those 23 long years of liberalism. 
The facts are, of course, that in our subsequent Budgets we took gigantic steps to rectify the problems of Commonwealth and State relations. We recognised for the first time in the history of this country the right of local government. We made history by making direct grants available to local government- a fact that is now overlooked by  Senator Carrick  and by other honourable senators opposite who speak on this matter. The fact is that for 23 years local government had asked for the right to be given a share of Commonwealth revenue, but it had been refused, Budget by Budget, until we came to office in 1972. In our 1974-75 Budget we made provision for local government. It was a very important historical development. 
Let us examine the funding arrangements that existed. For example, the total amount of grants for general purposes, specific grants and grants for capital works- generally, all of the moneys that the Commonwealth pays in the form of loans or direct grants to the States- in the first Whitlam Budget increased by some 30 per cent compared with the Budget for the previous year, that is, the last year of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. In the subsequent Budget, the 1975-76 Budget, there was an increase to the States of 85 per cent when compared with the base year- the last year of the Liberal and National Country Party Government. The Budget documents bear that out. Therefore one can say only that  Senator Carrick  is completely misleading the Senate and the Australian people in his endeavours to say that - 
He has misled the Senate in the way in which he represented the figures in this place. He has suggested-- 
With respect,  Mr President, Senator Carrick  quoted today the figure of 18.4 per cent. I think that was the amount to which he referred. The Budget documents show, for example, that in general revenue from 1976-77 to 1977-78, the increase was 16.6 per cent. That is also borne out-- 
Well, he is misinterpreting - 
If the word 'misleading' upsets you,  Mr President,  all I can say is that  Senator Carrick  was misinterpreting the Budget documents, that he was not referring to the documents which were made available to all other honourable senators and that he was endeavouring, while the Senate proceedings were being broadcast, to create a false impression in respect to the years in which the Labor Government made available moneys to the States and what his Government has done over the last two years. All I can say from my reading of the article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  headed 'Fraser's Faltering Federalism', is that the figures that were produced by the economic editor of that newspaper, which I regard as being a reputable newspaper, are the figures on which I am prepared to rely because they compare exactly with the figures in the documents that have been made available to us. The Minister suggested in his contribution to this debate that all the States are satisfied with the amounts of money that have been made available to them, but he knows from the Premiers Conferences which have been held that the six State entities have met in their own right with a view to caucusing against the Federal Government. Yet the Minister ignored the basic fact- and he knows that is what happenedthat at each of the conferences the six Premiers have in a variety of ways, as  Senator Walsh  has indicated, expressed considerable disappointment at the way in which the federalism policy is being applied. 
The same Minister had the temerity to suggest that in some way or other I was breaching my Party's policy or I was afraid to express my view in respect of local government authorities having a share of Commonwealth revenue. Let me put the record straight. In the debate the honourable senator said that I did not support the general principle of local government authorities having access to federal funds. In fact, I was the instigator at the local government conferences in New South Wales and in my own area in convening conferences to establish the very principle that local government should have a fixed share of Commonwealth revenue, and I make no apology for that. I think it ill-becomes a Minister to suggest that someone who is a member of the Labor Party is not prepared to support that principle. He knows as well as I do that the acrimony between the State governments and the Commonwealth Government has not evaporated with the introduction of the federalism policy. He knows as well as I do that the States want access to funds to enable them to cany out their responsibilities. Naturally the States do have responsibility for certain areas. He knows as well as I do that in 1971 when the Premiers asked for a fixed share of Commonwealth revenue they were aware of the fact that income tax collected annually by the Commonwealth was in fact a growth tax. For the Minister to suggest that the only time there had been a growth component in income tax in Australia was in the Whitlam years is in my view a misleading statement to make in a debate of this nature because in fact income tax has been growing steadily budget by budget ever since the end of the war, and particularly in the inflationary years. Similarly, the Minister attempted to assert that the highest rate of inflation occurred during the period of the Whitlam Administration, but the statistics show that the highest rate of inflation in Australia post-war occurred in 1951- the period of the Menzies Administration, a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
We take issue with  Senator Carrick  not because he has not responded as a Minister should in a debate on federalism but because he has endeavoured to create impressions in this place and publicly that the State Premiers are happy with the arrangements, that the States are better off. He ignores the very point that the previous  speaker  on the Government side made in respect of the position in South Australia and Tasmania regarding the taking over of the railway systems by the Whitlam Government- financed by the Whitlam Government and criticised by honourable senators opposite- as a contributing factor towards the very creditable way in which those respective States have been able to manage their domestic budgets. We accepted our responsibility and increased payments. The largest single component in Commonwealth expenditure of federal revenue was the amount paid to the States. Payments by the Commonwealth to the States between 1973-74 and 1975-76 increased by 85 percent from $4,360m to $8,555m. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Every Prime Minister who has assumed that high office since the end of World War II has in one way or another finally accepted the mantle of centralism and every government since then the mantle of a centralist government. I think it is wrong in a serious debate about Commonwealth-State relations to try to bring down to the lowest common denominator the suggestion that the Labor Government's whole philosophy was based on the priniciple of centralism. I think it has to be saidand said time and time again- that a national government in any country has to accept responsibility for economic management. To that end, the States and local government authorities have to play some part- a subordinate part- in the pursuit of proper management of the economy. 
I am weary of debates in which it always seems to be suggested that centralism is some sort of a bogey in the public sector. There is never any mention in the Parliament or elsewhere of the tremendous development of centralism within the private sector and the way in which the major corporations centralise power within that sector. If it is valid to attack, as the Federal Government has done, the move towards centralism, it is equally wrong to see centralism applied to the private sector. We have seen the States, in the pursuit of responsibility in economic management, being forced into a somewhat subordinate position, which today can only be described as one of stagnation. It is for that reason that the Opposition want to discuss the question of Commonwealth-State relations. We assert that in these circumstances federalism is a political gimmick. It was a phrase that was carried in 1975 and, after two years' operation, it seems to have lost its motivation. 
-I seek leave to move a motion. It arises out of the presentation of a statement this morning by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in reply to a question. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
This statement is now available to the Senate for its examination. It is a joint statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Queensland Premier relating to the agreement that has been reached - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the growing concern and alarm of the Greek community at the problems occasioned by the raids on citizens allegedly involved in the fraudulent social security claims? I refer particularly to the very large public meeting which was held in Sydney on Tuesday evening. Will the Minister assure the ethnic communities that the problems associated with bogus social security claims are not a reflection on the Greek community? Further, is it true that, by allowing the investigation to continue for more than a year, the whole incident has been grossly misrepresented to the detriment of the ethnic communities? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that, whilst pensions and benefits have risen by some 70 per cent in the last three years, the unemployment benefit for people under 18 years of age has not been increased? Is the Minister aware that many of these young people have been out of work for many months, that they have been without home support while travelling in search of jobs, particularly from rural centres, and that they have been facing the same rising costs as those faced by people over 18 years of age? Is she further aware that State welfare departments and voluntary agencies are reluctant to help such single people, preferring to allocate their meagre funds to families? What action does the Minister intend to take to alleviate the position of young people who cannot live at home while they look for work? 
The purpose of the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to authorise the Treasury, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of a Boeing 727-200 series aircraft and related spare parts and equipment, together with interest payments on the amounts borrowed. The amount of any such guarantee is limited to $US 10.3m, or its equivalent at the date of borrowing, representing 80 per cent of the total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. Similarly the purpose of the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Qantas Airways Limited, in its own name, for the purchase of two Boeing 747 series aircraft. The amount of the proposed guarantee will be limited to an amount of $US80m or its equivalent at the date of borrowing, again representing 80 per cent of the total cost of the two aircraft and associated equipment. 
Both Bills continue previous practices. In regard to the former, it had been government practice for some time to guarantee loans sought by Ansett for the purchase of aircraft on similar conditions to those set out in this Bill. In regard to the latter, prior to 1976 the Commonwealth Government took out loans on behalf of Qantas. The Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Act 1976 changed this practice, providing a Government guarantee for overseas loans raised by Qantas in its own name for the purchase of three Boeing 747 series aircraft. 
The Bills are not opposed by the Opposition. However, the Opposition believes that this debate provides it as well as the Senate with a small opportunity to examine the state of Australia's aviation industry and what it regards as being the abysmal performance of the Government in this area. Of course, we are concerned with a number of aspects of the Australian airline industry and the development that has taken place in it in recent times. I will offer some criticism later about safety aspects of the industry. I will also offer some criticism about the actions of the Government, particularly the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  in respect of charter airlines. Of course, the very vexed question of cheap air fares has become somewhat of a continuing problem which I appreciate has been of concern to the Minister and the Government for some time. 
I think we are entitled to review the operations of the domestic aviation industry under the two airline agreement, which was drawn up in 1952. That agreement was entered into a long time ago. It was seen as a device in those days to break the monopoly of the national airline, TAA, and to ensure the growth and viability of the competitive private enterprise airline, Ansett Airlines of Australia. In doing so, it provided for the regulation of competition between the two operators to the exclusion of any third operator. I think we are entitled, therefore, to examine whether that practice has been satisfactory from the point of view of the travelling public, from a service point of view and from a fare point of view. 
Today, many people both within and outside the aviation industry are of the opinion that the policy in fact has produced something of a monster, a duopoly in the provision of trunk line domestic air services. It is claimed by some that the agreement perpetuates a barrier to wider flexibility in the range of air services and the lowering of domestic air fares. In the first place, I think it is true to say that a measure of public concern is being expressed about the higher level of domestic air fares when compared to international air fares. When we look at the domestic air fare prices in Australia, I think it has to be admitted that they do not compare too favourably with the prices charged by our international airlines. Of course, there are reasons for this. Perhaps it is worth having a look at those reasons. Several factors contribute to the higher level of domestic aviation costs but it is rather difficult for the Opposition- as I am sure it is for the Parliament and for the general public- without full access to all the information available really to put its finger on who is responsible for what are the principal factors. It is difficult to reach conclusions in trying to evaluate the reasons for the difference in the price of air travel. To that extent, we believe that the Minister and the Government have been rather slow in releasing reports which are available to the Minister- we assume they are available to the Governmentbut to which the public and the Parliament do not have access. 
One factor that contributes to the higher level of domestic aviation costs, of course, is the fact that domestic air services operate over shorter distance average stage hauls than the international air services. For instance, the average passenger haul for TAA in 1 976-77 was 8 1 3 kilometres. For Qantas, in the same period, it was about nine times that distance- 7,259 kilometres. This meant that on average the TAA aircraft had to make approximately nine times as many landings and take-offs as the Qantas aircraft. Another factor increasing domestic costs is the excise on aviation fuel. That, surely, must be a matter that is worthy of some consideration by the Parliament. Domestic airlines pay excise on aviation fuel whereas international airlines do not. They are exempt. In 1976-77, excise duty alone cost TAA $ 17.5m, or more than half its total fuel bill of $32. 6m for that year. Another factor is that international airlines benefit from the operating economies of larger aircraft with more advanced technology- engineering technology in particular. A Boeing 747 aircraft is considerably cheaper to operate per seat per kilometre than the smaller and older DC-9 jet aircraft used by our domestic airlines. 
One wonders when the Australian public will get some indication from Ansett and TAA as to whether- and if so, when- they will move into larger equipment. Ansett is to purchase Boeing 727 aircraft which, to a great degree, still employ technology which is some 15 years old. So, we are perpetuating a technology that has been long out of date. The three engined aircraft that are presently being used are not the most efficient users of aviation fuel. We are confronted with that factor and also we are confronted with examining the inability of such planes to be part of any energy conservation process. After all, I think we are all being brought to a realisation of the need to consider energy conservation and we recognise that there is an energy crisis. It seems shortsighted on the part of our major domestic airlines in Australia to continue to purchase equipment that perpetuates this problem. 
In addition to the prospect of reducing costs, Australia should look at the real social value of purchasing wide-bodied equipment. As I have said, the fuel saving is considerable. Widebodied aircraft pollute less than aircraft currently in use. The continued use of smaller equipment can only lead to more and more congestion at Australian airports in the future. That, of course, is a particular problem for those of us who live around the Sydney airport. The problems of pollution and the movement of traffic in and out of that airport concern us. That airport gets more congested every day. Of course, if we did have larger equipment some of that congestion could be avoided. The people of Australia would not necessarily have to miss out on frequency of services. I will deal with that matter in a moment. Looking at the three major airports, if the present growth of nearly 9 per cent in aviation travel continues, it would be a reasonable proposition that by 1983 the same frequency would exist with the use of wide-bodied aircraft as exists at the moment. The continued implementation of import parity price policy on liquid fuels will produce further pressure for cost increases for domestic airlines. TAA has said in its public documents which are available for all to see that the full implementation of that policy would increase its fuel bill be some 50 per cent during the next 10 years. 
Yet another cause of high cost to the industry is the provision of airport and terminal facilities. The Aviation Industry Review Committee, whose report the Minister consistently has refused to make available, reported that the capital cost and operating cost for every passenger boarding at the TAA section of Tullamarine were more than double those at the airline built and operated Sydney airport. Such a conclusion gives a clear evaluation of the decision of the previous conservative government about the standards of buildings to be erected at Tullamarine. In the end, it is the flying public who pays for the satisfaction of politicians' egos. I think that is how Tullamarine has to be described. Aviation buildings should be utilitarian and not monumental. That centre is a very costly monument to those who conceived it and who built it, when one considers the public funds that went into providing it. I am somewhat dismayed to see a recent statement in the Press that suggests that the Canberra airport is adequate to meet our needs for the next 10 years. I find that rather difficult to appreciate when we see the congestion that exists at Canberra airport, particularly during the busy periods. Obviously, we will see a growth in the use of that airport. Members of parliament use the Canberra airport as do also public servants and the public. 
The importance of keeping costs down cannot be over-emphasised. Aviation exists to serve the community and its services and facilities ought to be designed with that purpose uppermost in the mind of the Government. As regular public transport operators, Ansett and TAA have a responsibility to hold air fares as low as practicable. I think that is the principal purpose of their functions. They should not be concerned solely with profit but should be concerned with providing services for the public and with providing cheap fares to the public so that the public can have access to movement around our great continent. It seems to me that the Government 's attitude was perhaps best expressed at the end of 1976. At that time, it issued a directive to TAA to raise its profit return from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. That seemed to have some relationship to the attitude that Ansett had adopted at that time. It had the effect of building in a higher price structure because the price structure had to be redesigned to return a 1 5 per cent dividend rather than a 10 per cent dividend. Therefore, the aim of keeping air fares as low as practicable was nullified. 
If we look at air traffic as being an integral part of our country's development, it seems to me that it needs to be approached in several ways- for instance, by the Government ensuring that profit levels are not excessive and by increasing load factors on aircraft. The airlines and the Government should look at the feasibility of establishing joint operations in the provision of expensive flight training facilities and maintenance equipment. As I have already mentioned we must consider sooner or later- the sooner the better- the introduction of larger, wide-bodied aircraft, such as the Airbus, the Boeing 727 or the Lockheed Tristar, with better operating economy per seatkilometre. The Minister could have assisted public understanding and debate on this issue by making public the report of the Aviation Industry Review Committee. For some unaccountable reason he has consistently refused to do so. 
A second general criticism of TAA and Ansett is the clustering or, as I think it is called in the industry, the parallel scheduling of flight departure times. Those of us who have travelled at some stage or other have been aggrieved to find that we have no choice if we want to travel from A to B. Two flights leave at the same time. Some staggering of departures, some rational approach to this matter, would be better for the travelling public whose purpose the airlines are there to serve. It has been recently reported that the Minister asked the airlines to do something about this question. All I can say is that action is long overdue. It is tardy on the Minister's part not to have acted sooner. He has been the Minister responsible for this area for two and a half years. The Government has had a free hand to administer the affairs of this country in the way it wishes. We hope that the airlines will respond favourably to the request that has been made by the Minister. The practice, of course, is related to market demand. One company does not seem to want to give or take in respect of changing scheduled flights. That seems to me to be remiss on the part of the companies. Something surely can be done. I think that the Parliament and the people are entitled to expect that something be done. One step that could ease the situation is the sharing of days or departure times or the pooling of revenues on carefully selected routes, as is done amongst international airlines. It seems to me that this is a form of rationalisation that is capable of being examined if not applied. This could go some way towards enabling more evenly spaced departure times and so provide a more acceptable service to the general public. 
Reviews of aviation policy which could have shed some light on all these matters should have been conducted by way of public inquiry. Unfortunately  Mr Nixon  seems to want to avoid public discussion about the airline industry and about transport generally. He seems to insist on a great degree of secrecy. The Parliament and the Australian people have little idea as to exactly what is happening in the aviation industry. This has been highlighted by the recent controversy that the Minister has called the 'Cavill Affair'. I was interested to read the ministerial statement that was made yesterday. I am not in a position to make a judgment about these matters. My colleague in another place whom I represent here has made mention of a Press release issued on 13 April by  Mr Cavill,  the Managing Director of the South Australian and Territorial Air Services Pty Ltd- SAATAS. I have enjoyed the hospitality of that organisation by travelling with it to various parts of the Northern Territory. That is the only association I have had with it. The name of the organisation is all that I know. 
SAATAS has recently taken a decision to wind up its Northern Territory flying operations giving as its reason the fact that it could not compete with the massive and unfair government assistance given the opposition airline Connair Pty Ltd.  Mr Cavill  said that he has been consistently refused the opportunity of meeting  Mr Nixon  and discussing with him important matters concerning air transport in the Northern Territory.  Mr Cavill  said that SAATAS could not survive when faced with the use of arbitrary power to our consistent disadvantage when we have absolutely no appeal from the decisions of or access to the responsible Minister'.  Mr Cavill  went on to detail the close links between the company Connair and the Minister's party, the National Country Party. It seems to me that the Minister has gone to great lengths to deny that any undue influence or pressure has been exerted on him in giving fairly extensive subsidies to Connair over a consistent period. The Press release states that  Senator Kilgariff  and  Mr Calder,  who is the honourable member for the Northern Territory, are past directors of Connair. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to allegations that had been made by  Mr Cavill  from the SAATAS organisation in the Northern Territory which have not been completely denied to our satisfaction by the Minister for Transport. I was listing some of the people who were alleged to be members of the Connair organisation.  Mr Damian  Millar, Vice  President  of the National Country Party at Alice Springs, is, I understand, a director of Connair.  Mr Cavill  further said that the immediate past  president  of the National Country Party's Northern Territory executive,  Mr Eric  Manuell, is a director of Rossair Aviation Sales Pty Ltd which trades as Chartair, a company which has been granted a Territory charter licence and Federal Government assistance. It has to be said that not until my colleague  Mr Morris  raised this matter in the Parliament did the Minister deign to make any comments on it. Then he made a statement in the House of Representatives and submitted a document to the Senate. But one thing the Minister did admit in his rebuttal of some of the allegations that have been made was that the Press release to which  Mr Morris  referred in his contribution in the House of Representatives was similar to a telex sent to the Minister on 3 1 March. 
The whole matter should be and could be cleared up if the Minister made public the report of the interdepartmental committee that inquired into the provision of aviation services in the Northern Territory and looked specifically at the problems of Connair and SAATAS. He has refused to do this. That report is almost a year old. We understand that it was compiled in May 1977. It was announced a couple of months afterwards, in July last year, that the Government would continue to support Connair. We do not know on what basis that decision was made since the interdepartmental committee's report was never made public. So we are confronted with a position where justice not only has to be done but also must appear to be done in respect of the conflict that obviously exists between these two companies. 
The report that the Minister tabled yesterday, prepared by the Department of Transport and titled 'Report on Air Services in the Northern Territory', made brief mention of the IDC report but it is that interdepartmental committee report that is vital, and that still remains a secret. It seems to me that if the Minister and the Government want to clear up this matter that report ought to be made freely available to the Parliament. If it is not there will be some suspicion that the allegations that have been made may have some substance. The Minister's statement yesterday contains a number of inaccuracies and distortions. I believe that my colleague in the other place pointed out the inaccuracies and distortions during the debate. 
The whole purpose of the legislation under consideration, I imagine, is to place the question of safety in proper perspective. After all, the purchase of new planes would be not only to extend services but to make sure that the planes that carry passengers and goods are sufficient to do the job and are in accordance with the proper provisions. I am concerned about a statement which appeared in the  Bulletin  in the issue of 25 April which said: 
The Australian Federation of Air Pilots warned Federal Transport Minister Peter Nixon that a major air disaster could be on his head. Federal spending cutbacks had led to a lack of preventative maintenance on ground navigation and safety aids, the federation alleged. Thousands of passengers flew between Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane last week, unaware that 19 of the aids had failed. 
In this evening's Sydney  Sun  there is an article in which another federal union official,  Mr Chris  McGrane from the Professional Radio Employees' Institute, has backed that statement. The report reads: 

 Mr McGrane quoted a Department of Transport minute issued the day before  Mr Nixon  made his denial. 
This relates to the quote that I read to the Senate earlier. The Minister for Transport described as false the Federation claim that the Federal Government's cost cutting process on maintenance had caused 19 navigation aids on the Sydney-Brisbane jet route to fail in one day. The minute is quoted in the Sydney  Sun.  The newspaper report continues: 
He said the minute began 'Owing to funds shortages for freight and financial restrictions for materials, authorised stores holdings will be replenished on a limited basis. ' 
He said, 'A departmental minute circulated in March said; "The severe curtailment of maintenance at remote and unattended sites had produced predictable results." 
These included "failure of communication and associated equipment" and "the deterioration of runway lighting systems".' 
This minute added, "the integrity of a number of navigational aids is in doubt." ' 

 Mr McGrane said that  Mr Nixon  had a responsibility- I am sure he does- to reply not only to the spokesman from the Australian Federation of Air Pilots but also to  Mr McGrane  's endorsement of those remarks. 
He has denied it but now we have a statement by another prominent official in the industry saying that members of his association have certain information which would suggest that the Minister's denial is not satisfactory. So it is the way in which the Minister dealt with that matter as well as this conflict between Connair and SAATAS that has raised some doubts in our minds about the manner in which the aviation industry in Australia is being handled. It should be clearly stated as a matter of principle that we do not want secrecy and the keeping of information from the Parliament. That is the sort of cloak and dagger type approach that has been adopted with Connair and SAATAS and now with respect to the safety issue. It does little to enhance the reputation of the Government and/or the Minister. Surely his responsibilities demand of him that he clearly make available the interdepartmental committee report and that minute from the Department of Transport. That would allay any public concern about safety and about the controversy- clearly there is some basis for suspicion- in relation to the way in which the Department and the Minister have granted a franchise in the Northern Territory. 
It is because of the unnecessary secrecy and procrastination, and perhaps even bungling, that we are forced to raise these matters in the Senate when dealing with simple Bills which have as their purpose the purchase of aircraft for our two main domestic airlines, Ansett and TAA. We expect the Minister to make some attempt to allay our suspicion and the concern that is shown to exist in the minds of many people about the safety of our Australian airlines. 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs whether he is aware of the statement made by the Victorian Premier that neither his Minister for Federal Affairs dealing with federal affairs nor the Victorian Government was consulted in the drawing up of the three Bills relating to uranium mining and that the legislation intrudes on State rights, is unconstitutional and centralist. Is this the Federal Government's understanding of cooperative federalism? Can the Minister say what he understands by the words 'co-operative federalism'? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Indonesian Government has again refused the International Red Cross permission to visit East Timor to carry out its humanitarian work? Is this not a rebuff to the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  who early last year said that he expected the Indonesian Government to recognise the rights of the International Red Cross? Does the Government regard the International Red Cross as a highly respected and impartial international body? In view of this, will the Leader of the Government raise this latest refusal with the Prime Minister and ask him to communicate with the Indonesian  President  with a view to the International Red Cross being permitted to be stationed in Portuguese East Timor? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It may also require some consideration by the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is the Minister aware of the many suggestions that processing of our mineral resources could be a valuable addition to Australian industry? What progress has been made to encourage the development of such secondary industries? Will the Government take the initiative in convening a conference of interested parties to plan for the success of such indigenous enterprises? 
It is fitting and proper that the Senate should be debating the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill which deals with the very important issue of land rights in Territories which are under Commonwealth control. During this session, the Parliament has spent a considerable amount of time on discussions about the responsibilities of the Federal Government as they relate to land rights and the rights of Aborigines in Queensland. We have adopted something like a common stand in many respects, even though one sometimes is appalled at the degree to which some Government senators seek to impute improper motives and make highly critical extremist statements relating to the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in respect of the plight that Aborigines find themselves in some 220 years since white civilisation came to this continent. It must be said that with the passage of time, during the last decade or so, the question of Aboriginal land rights has become a very important issue in the thinking and the consciousness of Aborigines. It seems to us that the question of land rights has become almost a predominant issue in their thinking. This is not difficult to understand. Therefore, one finds it difficult to appreciate the reluctance of those people- more often than not they are found on the conservative side of the politicswho still resist the recognition that the Australian community and the parliaments generally owe to Aborigines. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill as a whole, although it will be our intention to move some amendments which we believe will strengthen it. We hope that the Senate will regard the amendments as genuine attempts to realise the objectives of those people who support the rights of Aborigines to land rights, to realise the objectives which the Government set itself in the original legislation and to realise the objectives of the Party that I represent. In saying that, it must be asserted that there is a measure of uncertainty and confusion. Some people might even be prepared to say that the whole question of land rights in Australia is in somewhat of a schemozzle at the moment. To an extent there has been a great deal of shadow sparring and we have not as yet reached the point at which we can say to the Aborigines that we have fulfilled this important demand that they have made upon the Australian community. 
The Opposition is prepared to support this piece of legislation because the Aborigines want it. They are waiting for it. They want some action taken on land rights. As a consequence of that, whilst we are critical of the Bill and will be moving amendments to try to strengthen it, we will not be opposing it because, with all its limitations, it does represent somewhat of an advance on the position that exists, for example, in Queensland, the State which was the subject of a debate which has just concluded in the Senate. It is necessary that some of the machinery measures in the amending Bill which the Senate is now discussing should be passed to enable the realisation of the objectives of the Government, the objectives of the Opposition and the objectives of the Aborigines themselves. At the same time, it must be said that the Bill does not represent just an amendment to the existing legislation which was passed in 1976. In some respects it represents an abridgment of land rights. It erodes the very principles upon which the original legislation was based. 
As the Opposition reads this piece of legislation, in a sense it represents a step backwards. When it erodes the principles upon which the legislation was originally passed by the Parliament in 1976, those principles must be restated. They were the basis upon which the original land rights legislation was enacted. There are one or two defects in the legislation which the Opposition thinks are unnecessary and which we intend to oppose at the Committee stage. Since this legislation was enacted in 1976- it has been in operation for almost two years- it has been found that some of the procedural amendments that were required to ensure effective administration contain some difficulties and that some of the interpretations of it needed some strengthening. So there is some minor justification for the legislation which the Senate is now discussing. I want to go back to what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  said in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives. That second reading speech was also delivered in this chamber by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  It was then stated: 
It was the intention in the  drafting  of the principal Act - 
That is the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act-  that in establishing a Land Trust it ought to be sufficient to describe in general terms the beneficiaries of the land held by the Land Trust. 
Legal advice subsequently received by the Government has shown that the Act requires specific identification of the Aboriginal groups involved. Given this advice, the establishment of land trusts has not been possible. I want to remind the Senate that that very point was made in the debate when this Bill was being considered several years ago. As a result of the defect the Minister has been unable to recommend to the Governor-General the grant of any land to land trusts because of the difficulty of identifying in specific terms the benefiiciaries involved. To determine the traditional owners to the degree of detail required by the original Act would be a complex and time consuming task, a task intended to be the long-term responsibility of the land councils in establishing a register of traditional owners under section 24 of the Act. Therefore, there is a need- we concede it- to amend the Act to ensure that the specific identification principles originally intended will not be required. This will enable- I am sure this is why the Aborigines are anxious to see the legislation considered- the early establishment of land trusts to hold title to the land described in Schedule 1 of the principal Act, which includes all of the major Aboriginal reserves in the Northern Territory. 
Along similar procedural lines, the Bill also contains provisions to extend to the Aboriginal Land Commissioner the same protection and immunity as a justice of the High Court of Australia. The provisions state that that Commissioner may administer an oath or affirmation to a voluntary witness and impose penalties in the event of a failure to give an answer or if false information is given. Clearly, this and other amendments contained in this amending Bill merely seek to rectify situations that would have held up the full implementation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act of 1976. To the extent that the amendments are in line with the original intentions of the Act the Opposition has no quarrel with them. Rather, it is necessary that they be passed because there is a need to realise the objectives of both the Aborigines and this Parliament. The Opposition welcomes that aspect of the legislation. 
I am prepared to pay some tribute to the Government for the alacrity with which it has recognised the deficiency in the original legislation and to commend it for the progress that it has taken on this matter to see that land rights are given to Aborigines. However, it must be said that certain aspects of this amending Bill appear to us to erode the principles of the 1976 legislation. I hope that remarks we will make on this Bill will receive the due consideration of the Senate. What were the principles of the 1976 legislation? The Minister stated those principles in his second reading speech in 1976, when he said: 
. the Government believed that the Act would allow and encourage Aboriginals in the Northern Territory to give full expression to the affinity with land that characterised their traditional society and gave a unique quality to their lives. 
Of course, when one looks at the definitions in other Acts dealing with land rights and Aborigines, whether it be the Queensland Act or our own Acts, one finds that in the minds of Aborigines, land represents premises. To them land is not just a piece of earth upon which they walk; it has a greater emphasis and impact upon them. Land is their place of home. Just as whites put a fence around their piece of land and doors and locks on their houses and that is regarded as their property, we have to see that property in the minds of Aborigines means the land upon which they have resided and which they have used generation by generation, century by century and era by era. So when we talk about land rights we are talking about a definition which goes much further than that which might superficially be the opinion of the general community. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Aboriginal Land Rights Act is a unique and historical piece of legislation. It provides the opportunity for Aboriginal people to participate in matters affecting their lives in a way which hitherto has been denied them. This needs to be accepted by those people who have in the past been making decisions for Aboriginals and by those who have been able to take decisions which might vitally affect Aboriginals without thought for Aboriginal opinion. 
We can only say that with the effluxion of time and in the course of evolution, we all have come to appreciate that past policies on Aboriginal affairs have been paternalistic- I think  Senator Missen  used that phrase a moment or two ago. We saw ourselves as do-gooders, people who could sit in judgment and decide what was good for Aborigines. That era, thank God, has passed. We are in a period where Aborigines want selfdetermination, self-management and land rights. I think it is up to the Parliament to recognise that that is a justifiable and proper demand to be acceded to by the legislature. The Minister went on to say that a further aspect of the Government's policy in relation to Aboriginal land rights is to allow Aborigines 'as owners of their land, to follow their own lifestyles on their own land to me extent that they choose, to participate in and influence the course of development of and on their traditional land, and to take advantage of the full range of opportunities which development may open up to them '. 
We in the Opposition fully share the view expressed in that statement but we take issue with  Senator Collard  who talked about assimilation as against the very important distinction that the Aborigines should have and require the right to make the decision of whether they want to be assimilated into a white civilisation. I do noi accept that our civilisation is necessarily the only civilisation that they would want to consider. They have shown in various ways in recent years that they do not necessarily want to be assimilated and integrated into our community. They want to follow their own lifestyle and to the extent that they do, it is their decision. As the Minister said in his speech in 1976, they want the right to participate in and to influence that decision-making process. They are very fine principles. 1 would find it difficult to accept that the majority of members of this Parliament would disagree with the principles that the Minister expressed in 1976. There would be some. It is clear that there is a division of opinion amongst the conservatives in the Parliament; there are those who have not yet fully understood what the question of assimilation and self-management means. However, I know that there are not many Government senators who would disagree with what I am saying. Certainly they would not disagree with the words expressed by the Minister on behalf of their own Government. Yet I would agree that certain sections of this amending Bill disagree with those principles; they nullify and erode the principles which the Minister expressed in his speech on the 1976 legislation. 
The proposed new sub-section in section 12 of the principal Act provides that any grants of land in the Alligator Rivers Area (No. 3), is subject to the condition that the land council for the area directs the land trust to enter into an agreement with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife to lease the land to him for the purposes of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1975. Therein is a negation of that principle. Proposed new sections to be inserted after section 12 provide that if the land council and Director car not agree on the terms of an agreement the Minister, after consulting with the Director and the council may appoint an impartial arbitrator to determine the terms of the agreement. That envisages a situation where there is a disagreement. That puts a limitation upon the rights of Aboriginals to determine their own affairs and to have access to their own land. 
The land council and the Director must then enter into an agreement, or if the land council refuses- and obviously that is more than a possibility, having regard to the extensive negotiations which are now taking place- the Minister may enter into an agreement on behalf of the land council. So when the land council refuses to direct a land trust to grant the Director a lease in accordance with the agreement or where the land trust refuses to grant the lease at the direction of the land council, the Minister may grant the lease on behalf of the land trust. That is a conditional position and it is a position which erodes the principles of the 1976 Act. Thus the Minister's enunciation of principles would appear to be very hollow indeed. It appears that the Aborigines as owners of their land, will be allowed 'to follow their own lifestyles on their own land to the extent that they choose', only to the extent that they allow their land to be used for such purposes and under such conditions as are set out in this amending legislation. So much for land rights. 
We are arguing about a Bill which seeks to change the existing 1976 legislation and to remove the provision for free and open decision making in respect of land rights and all that flows from that. So land rights are affected by this amending legislation. It negates the 1976 principles. The Bill removes the power of the Aborigines to decline to make an agreement with the Director of National Parks and Wildlife for the use of their land. 
Quite frankly, we can see no need for this aspect of the legislation. We see no reason why the Aboriginal people should not have priority over parks, wildlife, land, flora and fauna. As  Senator Bonner  made the point so well in a debate some weeks ago, the land was freely available to them until white civilisation wanted it. Whether it wants the land for a park, for mining, for a town or for some other public purpose, when that point is reached white priority takes over from the rights of Aborigines to title as expressed in the land rights concept. In fact, the Opposition sees every reason why the Aborigines should have a priority over the needs of white civilisation. I can foresee, certainly not in the lifetime of any member of this Parliament, a steady erosion of land rights, of titles, as society develops and as civilisation requires land for this or that purpose. That will act as an impediment to the whole principle of land rights. Any grant to a land council of land from the Mudginberri and Munmarlary pastoral lease:, would depend on that land being leased as a national park to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. More than that, the Minister may intervene to appoint an arbitrator if the land council fails to see eye to eye with the Director. 
The Aborigines are not to be given prior dominion over the land and its natural assets. That is, the Aborigines will be put in a secondary position. The rights which in the 1976 legislation rested with the Aborigines may now be given to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service, and I would feel much asssured if the Minister for once would have discussions with the land council first and with the mining interests last. I imagine that there is an overwhelming acceptance in this Parliament of the principles that Aboriginal land rights are sacrosanct, that we do owe them something in return for the persecution of the last couple of centuries and that we do owe them some loyalty. I would put those priorities much higher than our priorities to mining companies, which in the great majority of cases are foreign owned and have no concern other than the exploitation for their own purposes of the mineral resources that may lie within these areas and the accumulation of profit and capital, which in most cases goes out of the country. 
One further aspect of this Bill causes the Opposition some concern. New sections are to be inserted after section 23 of the principal Act to empower any person authorised by the land council to obtain information and documents relating either to uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region or to the applications made by the lands council to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory concerning matters affecting the environment of the Alligator Rivers Region. Penalties are provided for furnishing false information or for refusing to grant access to an authorised person. The land council may apply for a court order if necessary. An authorised person, a member of the land council, or a member of the staff of the land council may not reveal information thus acquired- this is embraced in the Bill- except in the performance of his functions and duties: but he may reveal such information to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, the Minister, the permanent head, an approved officer of the relevant department, or a person authorised by the Minister. The permanent head or authorised officer may use the information only for the purpose of advising the Minister. The penalty for such information being made available except in those circumstances is a fine of $1,000 or 6 months imprisonment. It seems to me that that is a harsh and tyrannical penalty to be imposed on a land council or those associated with the defence of the rights of Aboriginals in the land rights movement. It is intimidatory and acts in a way that will prevent the free flow of information which is essential if we are to realise the objective of land rights for Aborigines. 
Firstly we are told that Aborigines are to be granted land rights over certain areas, but then they must lease them to the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Then we are told that Aborigines are to have full access to information relating to uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers Region but that they can use the information only in such ways as are laid down in this Bill. That is a restriction of the democratic rights and liberties of the Aboriginal people, who must be affected by such empowering and overpowering restrictions, to understand and comprehend what is going to happen to their regions and to their land. 
This amending legislation protects mining interests from disclosing incriminating material concerning environmental protection. It is proposed to penalise representatives of the land council for disclosing such material. Again the penalty will be a fine of $1,000 or 6 months imprisonment. I am sure that if honourable senators were to give their attention to this proposal they would see that it has nothing to do with Aboriginal land rights. Indeed, it is exactly the reverse. In effect, it will gag people and prevent them from making public matters of which they become aware in the performance of their functions as members of a land council, a land trust of or any other committee of deliberation. I cannot understand a government which claims to have an affinity with these principles, a government which has expressed itself on many occassions as being interested in open government, seeking to place in this legislation such restrictions upon the right of access to information. The secrecy provision prevents the Aborigines from disclosing material to the public, I draw to the attention of honourable senators opposite the fact and that this provision was neglected in the otherwise detailed second reading speech of the Minister. The Minister has given no justification for it, and the Opposition would be interested to know what justification there is for such secrecy provisions. The provisions protect the power of corporate secrecy and make Aborigines impotent to challenge a company if it considers that disclosing its technical information might tend to incriminate it in regard to the protection of the environment. 
It seems to be the express intention of this Government to bring about a change in the relatively passive state of the Northern Territory. We will see great changes. If the Government's policy is put into effect, surely there must be no restriction upon the disclosure of information in the areas of development that will flow from the Government's decision. In those two matters it would appear that the principles underlying the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act have been undermined, and I think the Opposition is entitled to ask why such provisions have been placed in the legislation. In that regard, it is apparent that in certain aspects of the amending legislation the Government is saying that the promotion of the processing, mining and exporting of uranium should take precedence over justice, land rights and the very principles of self-determination for the Aborigines. When it came to the conflict, the Government put other interests before the attainment of the principles in the field of Aboriginal affairs and before the interests of Aborigines. I put it to the Government and to the Senate that when there is a conflict over these issues the paramount responsibility is to the Aborigines. 
It is my purpose to argue, therefore, that the rights of the Aborigines should take precedence over any supposed urgency of promoting a package of uranium Bills. The Labor Party would argue that our primary responsibility rests with the Aborigines. We would argue that the sacrificing of the rights of Aborigines which could come about as a result of this amending legislation puts their rights at the altar of uranium mining and export. It is foolhardy and unnecessary and places in jeopardy the very objectives that this Government claims were the reasons for the enactment of its legislation in 1976 and 1978. Notwithstanding those areas of criticism, because the Aborigines see the Bill as a step forward in overcoming some of the defects in the earlier legislation, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill but will be moving three amendments at the Committee stage. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, follows representations made to me. I ask: Is it a fact that, as part of an economy drive, the Minister has under consideration proposals that may affect the pool of relief staff that is currently available to members of both Houses of Parliament? I refer to the staff that are available to members on short notice when their staff are unavoidably absent. In view of the Minister's favourable comments from time to time about adequate resources for members, will he give favourable consideration to maintaining the existing arrangements? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Once again the Senate is being asked to consider the problems that have been with us during 1978 concerning the rights of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. When discussing this matter on the second day of the sessional period after the recess, I think one is entitled to say that we are dealing with a problem that arises out of a legacy of government indecision. Whilst government legislation has been passed by both Houses of Parliament and whilst considerable negotiations have taken place between the Australian Government and the Queensland Government, I think we have to admit that at present the problem is with us to a major extent. The dimensions of the problem have increased. The people of Mornington Island and Aurukun feel let down by the Australian Parliament and, indeed, by the Australian people. 
We can describe the period under review- the last six months- as one of indecision; one of procrastination; certainly one of negotiation; and one of shilly-shallying. It was expected and hoped that the Queensland Government would fall into line with the wishes of the national Parliament; but that has not happened. In fact we are in a worse position now than when we first debated the matter earlier this year. I do not know whether the Government has taken the view that the matter is one for the too-hard basket; that the Federal Government ought not to be put in a confrontation position with the Queensland Government; or that it hopes the problem will go away. Whatever the reason, the fact is that the problem will not go away. We in the Senate should see ourselves as being in a position of giving advice to the Australian Government to take the problem out of the too-hard basket and to take the necessary legislative action to put into effect the expressed view of the Australian people in the referendum of 1 967 and the view of this place, which has been clearly expressed on the occasions when this matter has been debated. 
I think it has to be conceded- I certainly will concede it- that on the occasions when we have debated this matter in the Senate the overwhelming majority of Government senators have seen eye to eye with us on this side of the fence. I feel confident that if debate were to encompass the new members of the Senate from the Australian Democrats and if in fact  Senator Harradine  were enjoined to vote on such an issue we could count upon an overwhelming viewpoint from this national Parliament. It would be a bipartisan approach, an approach that surely would prod the Australian Government to take the necessary steps to resolve the impasse and the tremendous confusion that exists in the Aboriginal communities- in Queensland generally and Aurukun and Mornington in particular. 
We cannot be surely satisfied that we have advanced from the last time when we debated this matter. I think one is entitled to say that we are no closer to resolving the matter despite the temporary victory that has been won today. I understand that today an injunction has been granted restraining the administrator appointed by Bjelke-Petersen and the Queensland Government from proceeding with the takeover of the councils at Mornington and Aurukun. That would surely flow from some deficiency or some technicality in the Queensland law. It in no way absolves this Parliament, in no way absolves this Government and in no way absolves the Australian community from their responsibilities in respect of the requests, the demands and the pleadings of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island for action and resolution of the problems as it affects them in their communities. The resultant confusion must surely concern everybody in this Senate. It must surely concern many people who hitherto have not taken any particular interest in the problems that have existed in those two communities for the last six or seven months. Surely in that confusion we must recognise the tremendous heartaches, disappointments and fears of the ordinary people of those two communities. 
What have we done in the past? We have offered our unqualified support to this Government- such support is not often given, but in this case it has been given freely- in an attempt to persuade the Government that the undertakings given by  Mr Viner  and  Mr Fraser  should be met in the form of the Australian Government instituting legislation or using what other powers it may have for the acquisition of Crown lands in those two areas. All that persuasion, all those offers of assistance and all those attempts to take the heat out of party politics have not got us nearer to a solution to this problem. One finds, therefore, a common attitude on the part of what must be regarded as an overwhelming majority in this Senate. Having failed to persuade the Government to act, one is entitled, therefore, to say that  Mr Fraser  should be asked some questions about the undertakings that he has given from time to time. If one studies the records one sees that those undertakings clearly show him to be in the same contradictory position in respect of the communities of 
Aurukun and Mornington Island as he is in respect of Medibank, wage indexation, income tax, unemployment and all the other questions on which we share opposite points of view. 
We do not want to be put in a position of point scoring at the expense of the black people of Queensland, in particular the black people of these two communities. I put Government senators, with one or two exceptions, in the category of all honourable senators who have spoken on this issue. We are all concerned. I think that is the way we must see this issue. We are all concerned about the plight of the people in those communities, who, when they exercise their democratic right to employ a legal representative, which after all is a fairly fundamental and elementary right for any of us when we are in trouble, when they seek the assistance of the officers of the North Queensland Land Council and when they have the assistance of representatives of Commonwealth departments, see people being escorted from the reserves by police at the behest of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I think one is entitled to say that the people of those communities who have made so many pleas and requests to the Australian public and to the Australian Government are entitled again to hear the voice of this Senate and to reject as this Senate undoubtedly would if the matter were looked at impartially and properly, the extravagant language that the Queensland Premier still expresses in respect of the problems that exist in north Queensland. 
Of course, the Premier is on record as saying- I have spoken about it many times- and has said in this last couple of weeks that there is a reign of terror in these communities. In fact, quite the contrary situation exists. He says that the whole problem is caused by the presence of journalists, politicians and southern radicals. When he was asked whether he included the Federal Government in that categorisation he said: 'Yes'. He regards even the Federal Government as part of a group of people so loosely and easily categorised as being southern radicals, whereas we know, of course, that that is not the position at all. The one who is out of line, the one who is out on a limb, the one who is ignoring public opinion and the one who is ignoring the will of this Senate is in fact the Premier himself. 
The only solution to the continuing dispute involving the Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island is for the Federal Government to implement the provisions of the Constitution and to take into account the view of the people as expressed in the 1967 referendum, as we have said so many times previously. What else has to happen before the Australian Government will move? Does there have to be bloodshed? Does there have to be civil riots? Does there have to be turmoil or legal challenge to resolve a matter which clearly is an area of responsibility for the Australian Government? 
I am sure that it will be conceded by this Senate that acquistion of the land by the Federal Government is the only way to meet the wishes of the Aurukun and Mornington Island Aboriginal communities. It is the only way out for the Fraser Government to ensure the implementation of its own policies on Aboriginal affairs particularly in the State of Queensland. I do not need to remind Government senators on the other side of the chamber that that policy calls for self-management and self-development. Having adopted that policy and having found that that policy finds a ready echo in the minds and hearts of the people in those communities, is it unreasonable for us again in this place to bring forward for discussion this matter which proposes to advise the Australian Government on the need to implement its own policies. Surely the events of the past few months support our proposal. The position now is worse than it was when we last debated this matter in April when I pleaded with Government senators to accept an amendment which would have resolved the matter there and then. As honourable senators know, we finished that debate at a late hour on a Friday only to find that our action was subverted by an executive decision of the Queensland Government only an hour or so later. 
What is happening in these communities is that in the appointment of Aboriginal councils and in the way in which they are operating there is a denial of human rights. I would go so far as to say there exists in these communities and in some other Aboriginal communities in Queensland an atmosphere which can only be described as being akin to partial slavery. According to those who have been appointed by the Queensland Government to administer the affairs of these communities the Aboriginals have no rights. We have- and correctly so- in our parties and as citizens exercised our right to express a concern for human rights all over the world. Many of us have taken a strong view that human rights should be denied to no one whether by a government of the Left or a government of the Right. Certainly we ought to be asserting that fundamental principle when it comes to our own indigenous people who without any question have been denied those rights since white civilisation came to this continent almost 200 years ago. Today the civil rights of 
Aborigines at Mornington Island and Aurukun are affected. Some might say that they have disappeared. Certainly no one could disagree with the premise that those civil rights are threatened very much by the arbitrary and contemptuous action that has been taken by the Queensland Government. One is therefore entitled to ask what is behind this obvious conflict that exists. Does the Queensland Government really believe that it is acting in the interests of the Aboriginal communities. 
Does it really believe that it has support, when all the authorities without exception-  Mr Viner  's officers, the Uniting Church in Australia, the Moderators, the Synod, legal representatives and members of the Parliament who have been there themselves have came to the same conclusion, that the people in those communities want action from the Commonwealth Government? They want freehold land to be ceded to them. They want the right to determine their own affairs. As has been expressed so forcibly, they do not want the Queensland Government to be involved in any way in their lifestyle. 
If that conflict exists one is entitled to ask what is the motivation behind the Queensland Government. I venture to say that  Mr BjelkePetersen  wants to get his grubby little hands on the bauxite reserves that exist within those communities. He sees royalties for his Government, he sees more power for the mining companies that want to exploit those reserves and he wants to place the people of those communities in exactly the same atmosphere- a frontier town atmosphere- which helped to destroy many of the indigenous people in other parts of" this continent, in Africa and in America- the Indian people- who were forced to live side by side with the advance of so-called civilization. 
We in this Parliament, who have a better perception of this situation, want to protect our indigenous people from that sort of influence and atmosphere which we know from our experience in our own country and internationally is contrary to their best interests. Surely, we do not want to reach the position, which excites me somewhat, of having to introduce a private member's Bill in this House to try to force the hand of the Australian Government. I think it would be much better if the Australian Government were to heed the words of the Senate, to listen to the views that have been expressed on so many occasions. It should listen to its own supporters if it does not want to listen to those of us on this side of the fence. 
As honourable senators probably remember, in mid-March the Queensland Government announced its decision to take over from the Uniting Church control of Aboriginal reserves at Aurukun and Mornington Island. That sparked off an inevitable reaction, and since that time there has been a universal outcry from Aboriginal communities right across Australia. I know of no editorial writers, no political party, no other Aboriginal community or no other State government that has expressed support for the action that has been taken by the Queensland Government. On numerous occasions in public utterances  Mr Viner  and  Mr Fraser  have agreed with the views of those of us who have spoken on this matter in the past. According to some of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  's statements, he seems to believe that communism will come to these communities if some form of co-operative freehold title is granted to the lands that these people regard as their home. 
As I have said in previous debates and as other senators have said, the Aboriginal people regard land as their home. They do not regard land as we do, as a piece of property on which we erect our home. They regard the land as their home. This is part of their culture. For some reason the Queensland Government- we can all have considerable reason to doubt the integrity of the Queensland Government on this matter- is unable to see that that important principle is what motivates the views of the Opposition and those members of Government parties who have spoken on this matter in the past. 
We have to see in this Parliament a determination that we are not prepared^ to sit down and allow the people of Aurukun and Mornington to be by-passed by history, ignored by the Australian Government and taken over by the Queensland Government. We believe that it is in the interests of all that sufficient persuasion, pressure, influence- I do not care what it is called- is brought to bear upon the Australian Government in such a way that it will take the necessary steps given to it by the Australian people, expressed in the views of the Senate and, I am sure, by the majority representation in the House of Representatives. If that is done the Australian Government can hold its head up high and say that it has acceded to the request of the people of Mornington and Aurukun for selfdetermination, self-management and selfdevelopment. I urge support for the principles ennunciated in the terms of the matter of public importance which is being debated in the Senate. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister, the Teasurer and the Minister for Environment, Housing and 
Community Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by the Managing Director of the Hooker Corporation,  Mr Keith  Campbell, who, when referring to the unprecedented growth in shopping complexes, said that Australia was in danger of being 'overshopped'? Does the Government recognise that scarce private capital, as well as loan moneys, is being invested in new commercial shopping centres and that this constitutes a gross misuse of resources as well as increasing the price of consumer goods in the marketplace? Has the Government undertaken any survey to determine whether this distortion is happening at a time when there is a burning need for such investment funds to be employed in building homes? If not, will the Government institute an inquiry into how such capital can be diverted to a more useful community need? 
-by leave- The statement that has just been read to the Senate by  Senator Carrick  is a repeat of the ministerial statement made in the House of Representatives yesterday by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon.  This is the first time I had heard about it. As the shadow minister representing my colleague the honourable member for Shortland,  Mr Morris,  our shadow Minister for Transport, I would like to comment on the statement. I find the statement somewhat repugnant insofar as it seeks to suggest that  Mr Morris's  motivation is based purely on some political issues, not on the problems of aviation safety in Australia. I live in an area in which a great proportion of those who are associated with the aviation industry also reside. It is a very salubrious and a very nice suburb not far from Mascot. So far as suburban living in New South Wales is concerned the area possesses a number of attributes. From time to time those people who are associated with the aviation industry come to my office to acquaint me with their concern about the deterioration in air safety. 
As my colleague  Mr Morris  said in his contribution yesterday following the putting down of this statement, he has for the last year or so received many deputations and had interviews with people who have come to him as the Opposition spokesman on transport. They have put to him similar sorts of complaints and concerns about what they see in the industry. I refer to people such as pilots, and air traffic controllers and those who just take an interest in the whole subject of aviation safety. They have convinced him, as indeed I have been convinced by constituents in my area, that there has been some deterioration in air traffic safety. Therefore I find it somewhat provocative that  Mr Nixon  should suggest there is something doubtful about  Mr Morris's  approach to this matter although he has been asked by people who perhaps have a more intimate knowledge of the industry than anyone else to consider these matters.  Mr Nixon  went on to say that he is prepared to leave aviation safety in the hands of the experts and it is not a matter for politicians, journalists or laymen to determine. While we can always rely upon experts to help us in an evaluation, I think it is proper that politicians, journalists and laymen- that includes everybody in the community- should be concerned about air safety. I applaud those people who in their private or other capacities seek to bring under public gaze the problem as they see it. 
I am not suggesting that  Mr Nixon  is derelict in his responsibilities as the Minister but I think that, if we were to follow the reasoning of  Mr Nixon,  it would be a dereliction of duty, if  Mr Morris  had not raised these matters in the way in which he has and it would be a dereliction of duty on the part of the media if it was not to ventilate views that have been expressed from time to time by those involved in the airline industry. What is the point in suggesting that because  Mr Coysh  is an industrial officer he has no particular expertise in the aviation industry? It is a fact that he represents an aviation organisation, he is employed by it and he reflects the views of that organisation and the views of people who are involved in the industry day by day. The same applies to Captain Cameron of the Australian Guild of Air Pilots, who is involved in the industry day by day, and to many other people. 
We are aware of the views that have been expressed in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission over the last 18 months in respect of the conflict involving the air traffic controllers. In their representations to the Commission and in statements in the newspapers they have expressed the view that some additional problems concerning aviation safety have developed and that they have been called upon to bear a greater burden or share of responsibilities in respect of air traffic movements in Australia, particularly in respect of safety regulations. So I reject, and I am sure that the community at large and the media would reject, the fatuous remarks that the Minister has made about the media for highlighting the information that has been given to them. In fact, it is part of their job to be a watchdog in these matters, particularly when there is no way that members of the Parliament and members of the media are able to get access to departmental documents, information or officers in order to check the veracity or otherwise of the statements that may be made by some people. 
I can see that people may exaggerate a particular incident or concern but if we are, as we have been, denied access to government or departmental information how can we check the veracity of statements that are made from time to time? It is one of the great weaknesses of the Westminster system that only government members, and particularly Ministers, have access to departmental advice and that the rest of the Parliament and, in fact, even back bench members of the government ofthe day have limited access to that sort of information. I refer those honourable senators and members of the public who may have some interest in this matter to the speech made by my colleague,  Mr Morris.  I do not want to traverse the ground that  Mr Morris  has covered. I know that he is very sincere in his views. I also know that he is expressing the statements that have been made to him by people in the industry over a considerable period. Those statements coincide with statements that have been made to me, although I admit that I do not have any intimate knowledge ofthe industry. 
Therefore, one is entitled to say that, whilst  Mr Nixon  presents a rather glossy report, he is the Minister in charge of civil aviation and he ought to concede to the public at large and certainly to members of the Opposition their obligations, rights and responsibilities to raise matters when they are properly put before them. It appears to me that  Mr Morris  was making a very relevant point in his contribution yesterday when he said that officers of the Department have made it very clear in some interviews and discussions that have been held with other industry leaders, that safety was and remains a secondary matter to budgetary considerations. This Government is pursuing a policy of reducing public expenditure. That is the principal consideration in respect of the airline industry of Australia, and safety, therefore, plays a secondary role. 
I am certain that my party would concede that generally in Australia we have an excellent record of safety and that policy pursued by the Department of Transport over many years has shown that safety is a prime consideration. But I think there is enough evidence to show that, in the light of budgetary restraints in the current economic climate of Australia safety is taking a lesser importance. If that is so, if staff cuts and cutbacks in public spending are in any way influencing the responsibilities of the Department of Transport- we have witnessed the abolition of regional authorities in some of the far flung parts of our continent, the pursuance of cutbacks and some deterioration in safety- then I think members of the Parliament, the Press and those in the industry have an obligation to examine this aspect, without being accused, as  Mr Nixon  has suggested, of being politically motivated and seeking to undermine public confidence in arline safety. After all, if a tragedy of major dimensions occurs- we have seen that happen in many other countries- those who failed to raise their voices, those who had the information, who had been intimidated and who had not raised the matter in the proper place, may well be held responsible for the deterioration in airline safety. 
So, rather than to denigrate  Mr Morris  for having raised these matters, rather than to suggest that the media have some ulterior motive- as a general principle the media support this Government- rather than to suggest that there is something wrong in highlighting what information has been given to them, the Minister should have taken the view that all of these matters ought to be examined and that we ought to have a structure or a process in the Department so that all of these questions relating to airline safety and traffic movements can be examined. After all, it has to be conceded that there has been a tremendous increase in airline traffic in recent years and that is expressed in this document. It seems to me that the Minister ought not to be so subjective in his approach to this problem but rather he should see that there is a genuine desire in the community and in the Opposition to play whatever part it can to keep the Government on its toes to assist the Department of Transport in maintaining the high standard of safety which is expected of it, having established that principle over many years. 
I refer to the very objective reply that  Mr Morris  made in the House of Representatives and ask honourable senators to compare that to the tirade of abuse that was heaped upon him and those who have tried to indicate publicly their concern about what could be described as some deterioration in the whole question of safety in the airline industry of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and arises out of replies that she has given in respect of family allowances. Is the Senate correct in drawing the conclusion that the family allowance proposals contained in the 1978 Budget were badly conceived and that arising from the public outcry the Government has changed its mind? Can the Minister say now what procedure the Government proposes to take to ascertain the incomes that children receive from trust accounts and /or partnerships? Who will be legally responsible for providing the information- the mother, the father or the child? When this information is available will it be checked against the records of the Taxation office? 
-by leave- The tabling of these documents is quite an important event for the Parliament. Honourable senators will be aware that a continuing debate about the degree to which Ministers have been involved in the redistribution proposals has arisen out of these proposals. Of course, that debate has excited the attention not only of the Parliament and the media but also the attention of the public generally. Whilst debate has been centred on the problems in Queensland, the memory lapse of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the manner in which the Royal Commission was appointed and other relevant details, perhaps we have lost sight of the fact that considerable changes were made in New South Wales. Perhaps these changes ought to be considered by the Parliament in a little more detail. It seems a remarkable state of affairs that this process should have begun in 1973 as the statement made by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Durack)  suggests. Of course, we cannot hold him responsible because he has only recently become the Minister for Administrative Services. 
It was not until 1973 that research papers were initiated by the Australian Electoral Office to analyse the proposals which initially were put forward to the Parliament by electoral commissioners in the various States. It would make very interesting reading to find out why the electoral commissioners in New South Wales drastically altered the redistribution proposals which applied in New South Wales. There is no doubt that the three electoral commissioners in New South Wales carried out a more complicated and comprehensive redistribution of boundaries than any of the States. That is what was said in the  Financial Review  on 23 August last year. Of course, the analysis made by the media and the Liberal Party was that some advantage would be given to the Labor Party as a result of that redistribution. 
In view of what this Government conceded occurred in relation to the redistribution in Queensland, one wonders whether there was similar interference, influence or impropriety in respect of the New South Wales proposals because such drastic alterations were made to them. It seems strange that we had to rely upon a question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party in the House of Representatives to bring to public notice that in fact research papers were prepared by the Australian Electoral Office for the consideration of State electoral commissioners but not for the consideration of the Parliament until such time as the matters were raised in the Parliament itself. It seems to me that, if in fact the government of the day considers there are certain improprieties associated with just a mere change of name in Queensland, one is entitled to ask, with respect to a research paper which analyses the original proposition and the reasons for the drastic changes that were made in New South Wales: 'We would like to know what the views of the Commonwealth Electoral Office were in relation to the very drastic changes made to the composition of seats in New South Wales'. That factor in fact sets the tone for the subsequent election results. We know, of course, what happened in respect of the decisions taken by the New South Wales Legislative Council on redistribution proposals in that State. In 1975 the then Liberal Government put forward a resolution which was adopted by the entrenched conservative majority in the New South Wales Legislative Council that there should not be a redistribution for six years. That motion, of course, was designed to maintain the election of a Liberal-Country Party government. 
This matter raises very pertinently in the public's mind the manner in which redistributions are carried out. Obviously redistributions, the naming of electorates and the way in which electoral boundaries are drawn have a relevance to the ultimate decision taken by voters. Certainly drastic alterations were made in respect of New South Wales. Whilst the overall result of the 1977 election was such that the State Government was returned, the question is certainly raised in my mind whether in fact there is such a thing as a fair distribution. We are aware of the grave problems that existed for many years in South Australia. We know of the maladministration- and that is the only word that could describe the distribution proposalsand the gerrymandering in that State. Of course, this comment could apply similarly to Queensland today where it requires almost twice as many votes as are required to elect to Parliament a member of the Labor Party as are required to elect a member of the National Country Party. Certainly this raises in my mind the need for the Parliament to examine whether there ought not to be a better system. 
I am currently looking at whether we ought not to adopt a system of proportional representation which would overcome the influences that obviously existed in respect of Queensland and, one is entitled to draw the conclusion, may have existed in respect of changes that were made in New South Wales. If one looks at voting patterns in New South Wales one can see the absurd position in which the Labor Party and the Liberal Party polled somewhat the same number of votes and yet the proportion of seats is overwhelmingly in favour of the Liberal Party. We find that the number of votes received by the Australian Democrats equalled the votes of the National Country Party yet the Democrats were denied representation in the lower House whereas the Country Party has representation in that House. Therefore the system does not reflect correctly the views of the electors. 
The present electoral process was initiated by the Australian Electoral Office in 1 973. However, it seems very strange that the Parliament has not hitherto been given an analysis as to the reasons why changes are made in the boundaries of Federal electorates. There is no doubt- and this is borne out by the conclusions that were reached by  Mr Justice  McGregor- that a mere change of name has effects and influences. One is entitled, therefore, to say that those who draw up the electoral boundaries have a much greater influence on the final result of an election than perhaps they should otherwise have. Therefore the appointment of commissioners, the guidelines upon which they work and the influence of the Minister concerned, whoever he may be, obviously plays a considerable part in this whole process. It is an influence which can nullify the express wish of the electorate. Therefore we would welcome an opportunity to have access to the analysis that has been prepared by the Australian Electoral Office. We would welcome the opportunity to debate the matter further, based upon what the public servants themselves feel were or could have been the influences in respect of the final decisions. 
Until a few moments ago I knew nothing of the presentation of this report so I am not in a position to be able to speak off the cuff about what happened in the other States. Certainly I am aware, having sent for copies of the newspapers, of the way in which the media interpreted this matter and the way in which  Mr Carlton,  the Secretary of the Liberal Party in New South Wales saw the proposed changes for the State of New South Wales. I would certainly welcome an opportunity, as, I am sure, would all members of the Parliament, to examine in detail the research papers that have been presented. I hope that we will establish the practice for all time that those papers be made available to the Parliament so that we may see whether, in fact, influences have been brought to bear which affect the future or otherwise of members of parliament, potential members of parliament, political parties and the express will of the electorate. In those circumstances I would like further opportunity to study the research papers and I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. As a result of discussions the Attorney-General had with  Senator Withers,  the Prime Minister and other Ministers on 17 and 23 April did he personally obtain any additional information of a material kind dealing with  Senator Withers  ' involvement in the change of name of an electorate over and above that obtained in the letter dated 2 1 April? If so, will the Attorney-General advise the Senate what was the additional information? 
The Senate is debating problems associated with the building industry in this country. I think that those people listening to the debate, particularly those associated with the building industry, would have been very pleased to hear the contribution to the debate, by  Senator Carrick.  Firstly, he returned to the old rhetoric which has been a part of his spiel for the last half dozen years. Secondly, he is still relying on what he claims to be some of the deficiencies of the 1972-75 period. Thirdly, he is ignoring, of course, the very real crisis that exists in the Australian building industry. He is ignoring all of the spokesmen who have expressed themselves about this problem. I am sure the sort of climate that he believes should be created would be quickly dispelled by his complacency in relation to this very important matter. 
Perhaps in no other industry have the severely restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of this Government had such a damaging effect as the building industry. It is indeed unfortunate that this should be the case, given the vital importance of the building industry to the rest of the Australian economy. I should like to deal with three or four statements in this regard.  Mr Bill  Kirkby- Jones, the National Executive Director of the Housing Industry Association, said yesterday: 
The housing and construction industry will remain severely depressed this financial year. 
The Managing Director of the Metropolitan Permanent Building Society,  Mr Steel,  said: 
The housing industry would be more active and provide more jobs if the Federal Government relaxed its controls over money supply. 

 Mr Carlton, Executive Director of the Permanent Building Societies Association, a well-known spokesman for the industry, said: 
The building industry is the largest consumer industry in Australia . . . and one of the largest employers of labour, lt just doesn't start and end with building homes. House have to go on land which has to be  kerbed,  sealed and serviced; houses have to be filled with furniture, curtains, carpets and stoves. 
The ramifications are enormous. When things are slow in the industry, they're slow for everybody. 
The Acting  President  of the Real Estate Institute of Australia,  Mr Hickson,  is reported as saying: 
The Federal Cabinet and some government departments appear to be completely out of touch with community housing needs . . . 
An article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  a week or so ago stated: 
Activity in the housing industry fell sharply in 1977-78 and savings bank house lending barely kept pace with inflation. 
So much for the defensive approach the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  took in this debate. Of course, he had the temerity to suggest that the Labor Government's record in housing left much to be desired. I should like to refer to page 204 of Budget Paper No. 1 which shows the amount of money that was made available by the Labor Government in the three years in which it was in office. In the last Liberal Budget which the Minister spoke about, the one before the 1972 elections, only 0.8 per cent of total Budget outlays was allocated by the Liberal Government to housing. That was increased in the first year of the Labor Government to 2.8 per cent, the following year to 3.9 per cent and the next year to 2.6 per cent. That represented, in the first year, an increase of $77m to $337m for housing. What does this Budget provide for housing? It provides 1.3 per cent of total Budget outlays, which means a reduction of some $970m down to $47 1 m in the current Budget. So much for the statements of  Senator Carrick. 
One should not underestimate the importance of the building and housing industry to the overall economic health of this nation. There is abundant evidence in submissions made to this Government by the building industry, employers, employees and those associated with the lending authorities that the building industry is a cornerstone of economic revival in this country. But this Government has failed to recognise these basic facts. I do not think the Senate needs to be reminded that the state of the building industry is crucially important for many related industries and, in turn, for industries related to them. One needs to talk only of bricks, tiles, asbestos cement, earthenware and other prime cost items that necessarily go to build a home and to provide accommodation for our people. 
It can be argued without any question that the building and housing industry is one of the most important industries for Australia. What is good for building is good for the Australian economy. Yet what do we find the building industry facing today? It can be summed up simply. The building industry is on its knees. It is in a state of near bankruptcy.  Mr Jennings,  Australia's largest house builder, in a statement which appeared in a newspaper yesterday said that Jennings Industries Ltd revealed for the first time in 30 years that it did not have a single house under construction in the Australian Capital Territory for the Australian Government. Yet a Minister, the Leader of the Government in this House, is seeking to defend the policies of the Government which has allowed this vital industry to run down to its lowest level for a decade. 
Let us examine what has been said about dwellings. The number of new dwellings approved for the 12 months to June 1978 fell by 12 per cent from 141,000 to 123,000. That is a decrease of 1 8,000 dwellings in one year. Yet the Minister attempted to criticise the fact that housing approvals fell some 29,000 in the three years of a Labor Administration when in one year the number of dwellings approved has fallen by 18,000. In 1977-78 the number of new dwellings commenced was estimated at some 177,000. This is the lowest figure since 1966-67. In 1 977-78 the number of new dwellings completed was the lowest since 1967-68. For the June quarter 1 978 the number of new dwellings under construction was the lowest since the March quarter of 1968. That is the lowest figure for 10 years. 
So, leaving aside the three years of the Labor Government, in seven years of Liberal and National Country Party Administration, we have seen a disastrous fall in building construction so far as the home industry is concerned. In the year 1977-78 the total value of building projects completed in Sydney and the South Coast areas of my State fell by 17 per cent in one year. In another State, Tasmania, building approvals for the financial year 1977-78 were down 8 per cent on the previous year. 
These statistics show clearly the extent of the decline of the building industry. Well, who is responsible? Is it the Commonwealth or the State? Make up your mind,  Senator Archer.  Even more sobering are the ramifications of this decline for people involved in the industry itself. Since the peak of the building industry in Australia in May 1975 in a period of Labor Government- one has to look only at the statistics supplied by the Bureau of Statistics to ascertain this- employment in the building and construction industry has fallen by 60,200 people. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service statistics show that unemployment in the ranks of skilled building and construction workers has risen by 56 per cent in the last 12 months to March this year. As many as 10,000 skilled tradesmen left the building industry last year. That figure is confirmed in yesterday's  Sydney 

 Morning Herald by  Mr Kirkby-  Jones from the Housing Industry Association. Unemployment in the building and construction industry has been above that for all occupations in the last three to four years. Evidence is mounting of plant and outlet enclosures; that is, industries associated with the building industry in the provision of raw materials. It was claimed last month that in Tasmania small businesses were going to the wall at the rate of ten a month due to the depression in the building industry. Further problems arising out of this depression, unemployment and closure are in evidence. For those who remain in the industry, there are pressures to have their wages and living standards reduced. Only last month the Master Builders Association moved to reduce wages paid to apprentices by between $30 to $50 a week. There could well be a rundown in productivity in supporting trades. 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has warned the Government- its own department- that the exodus of skilled tradesmen from the industry and the fall-off in the rate of new apprenticeships could lead to the possibility of skilled labour shortages in the future, assuming that there is some possibility of a recovery in the future. Inflationary bottlenecks therefore would result from a rundown in the industry, yet that rundown actually is taking place. Perhaps more importantly, one of the great tragedies of our society is that people cannot get adequate shelter. The waiting lists for State housing commission homes exceed 100,000 families and are now growing at the rate of 50,000 a year. There are few indications that the problems can be resolved in the immediate future. Because of the way in which the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  has expressed his views and because of the views expressed by  Senator Carrick  today, one can feel nothing but gloom about where the building industry is headed. Without a significant overall increase in the flow of funds for building, expecially housing, there is little prospect of recovery. 

 Mr Nichols, the Executive Director of the Master Builders Association of Tasmania said only last month that the situation would not change within the next year unless there was a reversal in Federal Government policy and that there was no indication of upturn at the moment. Here in Canberra the outlook is similarly bleak. A representative of the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation said: 
We're looking forward to fairly hard times in the industry ... a substantial rise in unemployment among building workers. 
When the Belconnen Mall is finished at the end of November what will happen to the 400 or 500 men currently employed there? So it does not matter whether we are talking about Tasmania with a Labor Government or the Australian Capital Territory with a Liberal Government. We are faced with exactly the same sort of problem and the problem flows from the inadequate understanding of this Government about the importance of the building industry. 
The manpower programs section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has described the outlook for the building and construction industry as 'bleak'. These considerations lead us inevitably to ask: What is the cause of this crisis? With tens of thousands of families on the waiting list for housing commission homes and with the shortage of fundsand there is evidence that the amount of lending by the building authorities is only keeping up with the rate of inflation- it is evident that the problem is not one merely of lack of nominal demand, at least not in the housing sector. Nor is it true that there is a lack of nominal demand in the government sector. There is plenty of evidence to show that whatever actions may be taken by the States- by the Tasmanian Government, the Victorian Government, the West Australian Government- to try to make money available to the building societies a redirection of policies is required at the national level to get the building industry back on to its feet. There is no evidence that the Federal Government even recognises this need. In fact after hearing the speech given today by  Senator Carrick  one can conclude only that the Government has set out on a very deliberate policy of reducing activity in the building industry in the forlorn belief that this will have something to do with lowering interest rates and lowering the rate of inflation. 
The Government's severely restrictive fiscal policies are at the heart of the problem with which we are concerned. The Government is to blame for the inadequate recognition of the importance of the building industry and the need to develop some regenerative processes in the Australian economy. I think the initiative of the Labor Party to put this item before the Senate for its consideration has flushed out the attitude and the indifference of this Government. The Government's pathetic defence of its policy suggests that, sometime in the years ahead, we are likely to see some revival in the building industry. That is not adequate or sufficient in the circumstances of today's economy. It is not adequate or sufficient so far as the building industry is concerned. It is to be hoped that public opinion will bring pressure to bear upon this Government and cause a change in its economic strategy and a recognition that the building industry is in fact one of the most important sectors of the Australian economy. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and follows the answer that he gave to  Senator Kilgariff  about the plight of people living in East Timor. Does not the disclosure that about 12,000 East Timorese have been found to be starving and in a dangerous state of health require the urgent attention of the International Red Cross? I remind the Minister that in a reply to a question I asked of his predecessor on 8 May this year and to questions asked by  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Kilgariff  the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated: 
The Government doubts the need Tor a high level communication with the Indonesian Government about the International Red Cross at this time. 
Further in that reply he stated that the Government had allocated $333,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross for the purpose of humanitarian work. Is the Government satisfied that that money has been adequately spent? Further, having regard to the views of our ambassador,  Mr Critchley,  and others, of the plight of this great number of refugees, does the Government not regard the previous reply of  Mr Peacock  as being inadequate and complacent about the plight of these unfortunate people in East Timor? Again I request that consideration be given to the Australian Government requiring the presence of the International Red Cross in East Timor, having regard to the fact that in practically every other country the International Red Cross is recognised as the body to carry out work amongst refugees? 
The purpose of the Excise Amendment Bill 1978 is to allow for a rebate on the excise duty payable on certain categories of indigenous crude oil. Listening to the contribution of  Senator Young,  one would not think that that was what we were debating. The legislation is required to bring into effect the Government's decision that all indigenous crude oil is to be priced at import parity levels. The principal thrust of the legislation is to boost revenue to the Government. All the pious platitudes of the Government cannot cover up the fact that the principal purpose of the legislation is to reduce the deficit. It is not part of an overall energy conservation policy. This Government has no such approach or policy. The prime purpose of the legislation is to assist the Government in its general direction of trying to boost revenue as it has failed in its other direction of building up revenues and reducing expenditures generally through the Budget. That broad aspect will be debated later. We will probably then have the opportunity to discuss some of the extraneous matters that  Senator Young  has raised in his meanderings. That is all we can say about his contribution. 
The Opposition does not support the Government's proposition. It goes in a direction that is completely different from the Government's alleged strategy which is to reduce inflation. I do not think there is any doubt that the drastic increase that will come about as a result of this legislation and the subsequent piece of legislation will add greatly to the cost of living. The price of petrol, even  Senator Young  concedes, will rise considerably. If we take into account the increase in the price of petrol brought about by the 1977 Budget and the increase that inevitably will follow from this Budget- approval has been given recently by the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase; it has even invited the oil companies to make further submissions if they are not satisfied with the increase that has been granted already- we can expect that the price of petrol will have increased by something like 30 per cent. This will have a tremendous effect upon the general cost of goods and their transportation and distribution in this country. 
Figures which I have been able to get seem to indicate that the cost of distributing goods in this country approximates 30 per cent of the total cost of goods. I am not able to assert that to my complete satisfaction because I have not been able to get all the figures. If that is true the increase which flows from this year's Budget will have a dramatic effect upon the general level of prices in this country. Therefore, one has to regard the Government's proposals as being highly inflationary. They make somewhat of a mockery of the Government's claim that it is really about to reduce the level of inflation. We all know that whenever distribution costs increase so does the margin of all costs down the line. We can anticipate that in the price of goods there will be a very considerable increase which must flow on right through the whole of the community. Of course that will occur with not only petrol but also fares in the public and private sectors, the price of transporting goods, taxis, heating of oil in homes and so on. 
In those circumstances the Opposition finds itself unable to see the logic in the Government's propositions particularly as they fly in the face of all the advice that has been given it.  Mr Justice  Collins' Royal Commission on Petroleum in 1973 recommended that import parity prices should rise gradually. The Industries Assistance Commission report of 1976 made a similar recommendation. Yet for purely monetary reasons associated with the Budget that advice, which was soundly based, has been bypassed and in fact will assist the Government only in its endeavours concerning the Budget deficit. The income resulting from this legislation will not go towards expanding job-creating industries; it will not go towards providing funds for research and development of energy alternatives; it will not be seen as part of any energy conservation policy; and it certainly will not be seen as providing funds for urban public transport. I find it rather ironic that  Senator Young  should attack the Labor governments of New South Wales and South Australia which have done more in recent years than any other State government in Australia to upgrade urban public transport. The Australian public has been called upon to make the sacrifices for no benefit whatsoever, only to meet the short-term interests of Budget deficits. 
What is it that brings about the Government supporters' acquiescence in any proposition that the Government, the Cabinet or the Treasury brings down in respect of the Budget? If, for example, it was recommended that the legislation be phased in over a three or four year period we would have had the Government supporters getting up and supporting that policy. But no, the Government decides on a certain course of action and Government supporters scurry around trying to develop inane arguments to justify their Government's policy or legislation. After all it was this Government itself that talked about a resource tax. I will not give it any credit for that because we in my party had talked about it but it was seriously floated by Government Ministers. Yet tonight we have Government supporters in this place, as indeed was the case in the House of Representatives when the matter was being debated there, deprecating any suggestion of a resource tax. The plain fact is that Australia is one of the few countries in the world that has not introduced a resource or secondary tax. It is part of the tax structure in most developed countries. When we hear some of the rubbish that is peddled in this debate by people like  Senator Young  and see the crocodile tears that we had from him about oil exploration it is clear that Government supporters have not done their homework. If he feels that there is some justification for the private sector dropping its number of exploration projects from 69 to 21 and that that ought to be defended and that the private sector can make those sorts of decisions which may affect the welfare of the nation, then he has a strange logic in his thinking. 
The evidence shows quite different historical developments in other parts of the world. For example, when the great oil finds were made in the North Sea, there were no problems in the United Kingdom firstly in getting the cooperation of oil companies, secondly in getting the technology and thirdly in getting private and public funds invested in that tremendously successful enterprise. The oil companies were prepared to take a small share of the profits; a smaller share than the oil companies in Australia have ever been asked to accept. Of course the facts are that the costs of production, including exploration for oil or gas, are something less than 20 per cent of the total costs. Yet we hear from time to time this great plaintive wail from Government supporters that we have to provide hundreds of millions of dollars as incentives otherwise the oil companies and those associated with the exploitation of our natural resources will not come to the party. The facts are not disputed. If one looks at overseas experience one will see that most countries of Europe have arrangements by which there is a proportion of public sector involvement in oil exploration and development. We in this country are the exception to the rule. To hear Government supporters speak one would believe that the reason this is not the case in Australia is that the public sector does not like the political colour of a particular government or the particular state of the economy at a particular point in time. 
What is the Government doing in this legislation? In ignoring the advice of its own experts and the royal commission it is really in the first year getting a windfall of pretty close to $700m in respect of income by reducing the deficit and then in subsequent years handing over hundreds of millions of dollars to the private oil companies. What we are really doing is transferring money to the friends of this Government, the oil companies- particularly to EssoBHPwho stand to gain a tremendous sum of money. George Bernard Shaw once said that a government that robs Peter to pay Paul can count on the support of Paul. Of course that is exactly what will happen if it has not already happened. There is reason to believe that the oil companies have been very generous in the past in their donations to political parties but not to the party to which I belong. When this sort of money is just handed on a platter to companies like Esso-BHP and others, when such windfall profits are passed on, one can expect that certain assistance will be given in return. The suggestion that the Labor Party's belief that there ought to be a secondary tax on such windfall profits is somehow unAustralian, unpatriotic and unnecessary and that the Labor Party's motivation is designed to drive Australia downhill seems to me to represent the most illogical thinking that one can expect, particularly as it has been government spokesmen themselves who have floated the idea of a resource tax. 
What surprises me, amazes me and dismays me is that Government supporters can make statements in this chamber which clearly indicate either that they have been conned by their political leaders or that they have not done their homework or their sums. The very estimates of this Government show that it anticipates not what  Senator Young  suggests- a conservation of oil resources- but in fact a five per cent increase in consumption in the very year in which the price will rise considerably, unless we are able to draw the conclusion which has been drawn by some of my colleagues in another place, that perhaps the books have been cooked, as they conceivably could have been, on the question of estimates of income as far as taxation is concerned. 
We do not disagree that a scarce and limited resource is involved and that we ought not to be encouraging indiscriminate consumption. But where is the fuel and resource policy of this Government? Where has it put down in any statement or in any contribution or conference, least of all to the Parliament, that suggests that this Government is concerned about the misuse of our natural resources? There has been none. 
The Government is failing the nation in the same way as it did in respect of the advent of technology. It is not acting. Despite the fact that it was obvious in 1960 that some time within the next 20 or 30 years from that time we would enter a period of advanced technology, automation and cybernation. The Liberal Government has not faced up to its responsibilities in that area any more than it has in the area of fuel conservation. 
I do not lose any sleep about the fact that exploration projects dropped from 69 to 21. If there is oil or natural gas somewhere it does not have to be discovered in 1976, 1977 or 1978. It will still be there in 1980 or 1985. Perhaps other forms of energy will take its place or we will be forced to rely on those resources that may well be there. There is no reason to suppose that we have to discover all available resources that are in our country in a particular period. I cannot see the reasoning behind the Government's proposal, nor can I see that the Government regards its actions in respect of this piece of legislation as part of any long term energy policy or strategy. It has to be said- it has not been denied by any of the Government speakers- that it is purely a revenue issue at 1978 and it is purely an attempt to transfer unlimited funds to the oil companies in the next two or three years. I do not think that there has been any justification for that type of transfer, that type of windfall. 
In the light of this, I think we are entitled to say that the Government is being dishonest not only to its own members and to this Parliament, but also to the nation as a whole in its failure to explain to the nation what really is the ideology behind this decision, if it is not to be seen purely as a revenue issue. Of course there are great misgivings in the Australian community about the economic effects. On the one hand we have Government ministers talking a great deal about, for example, on farm costs and the need to make our agricultural products competitive on world markets. Yet as the  National Farmer  points out: 
Australian farmers will each be about $2,000 poorer as a result of the harsh medicine dealt out in the 1 978-79 Howard budget. 
It says that the hike in fuel costs will add about $1,000 to the fuel bill of the average farmer and the flow-on effect will inflate his farm costs by an estimated further $1,000. The article goes on to deal with income tax and states that the Australian farmer will face an average rise of something like $2,000 in his income tax bill. This Government has said that it is concerned about costs,reducingtheinflationrateandmaintaining our exports of agricultural products at a competitive level on world markets. What has the Australian Automobile Association said in its publication? It stated: 
Australia 's motorists are paying too much for their petrol through inefficient marketing and distribution methods used by oil companies. 
The AAA put that submission before the Prices Justification Tribunal hearing in Melbourne recently. Yet there is no attempt by this Government to see whether there is merit in that sort of criticism. This piece of legislation is ill conceived and the Government has been ill advised to introduce it. With the inevitable flow-on that will affect every item of goods transported in Australia it will have disastrous effects on the Government's so-called anti-inflation policy. Instead of Government members debating the valid criticism of this piece of legislation made by Opposition members we find on the contrary a great deal of the sort of rhetoric that has plagued this Government since it came to office at the end of 1975. It has tried to suggest that everything went wrong in Australia in the period from 1 972 to 1975. Of course we know that that is not the case. That is a refuge which the Government ought to be putting aside when it looks at the more fundamental problems facing the Australian people. 
This hike in petrol and petroleum products costs will have a disastrous effect, as indeed will the whole Budget, upon the disposable incomes of the vast majority of the Australian people at a time when the Government says it is concerned about the state of the economy, the lack of confidence and the inability of consumers to buy. This Government claims to have the mandate and the support of the Australian people. The people are not responding to the Government's strategy by spending. I think even  Senator Carrick  had to accept that today in his reply to the Dorothy Dix question asked of him. Just because there has been a marginal increase in consumer purchases in the three month period in question that should not be taken as representing any substantial improvement in the whole retail area. If there was an improvement it flowed from the tax concessions that were granted in February of this year. Obviously the effects of those concessions will fall. I submit that disposable income is not being spent. The evidence is there that deposits are continuing to remain at a high level. Because of the spending situation the building industry is in difficulty. State and local governments are only holding their own and not  keepingabreastoftheneedsforservicesandthe  expansion of services. This can be only a reflection upon the way in which the Australian people regard this Government. Instead of dealing with these sorts of questions and dealing with what I believe to be valid criticism that has been raised by the Opposition on legislation such as thisthere will be a lot of this sort of legislation in the next few weeks- the Government relies upon rhetoric and a degree of dishonesty in the way in which it is seeking to convince us that its policies are working. Of course we know that they are not working. When we suggest that there is justification for introducing a secondary tax or a resources tax in order that the Australian people can gain some benefits our motives are impugned by Government members. 
Look at the extraordinary steps taken in this Budget to tax the paper boy, to tax the blind and for the first time in history to put a tax on exservice pensions and look at all of the other new avenues of tax grab which this current Budget imposes upon the community generally to get $4m here, $3m there and $2m somewhere else. Yet Government members are prepared to support a piece of legislation which this year will provide revenue of $676m and which in the following three or four years will pour into the coffers of the giant international and major oil corporations something in excess of $300m to $400m. 
It is not only scandalous; it is obscene that Government members can possibly justify that sort of give-away and at the same time impose forms of tax upon people who hitherto have not been a part of the taxation system in this country. It is in the light of that sort of hypocrisy that the Opposition makes no apology for opposing the legislation. 
I refer the AttorneyGeneral to the recent arrest of a number of Croatians allegedly involved in illegal activities at Eden on the South Coast of New South Wales. Is it a fact that amongst those charged are persons whose names were included in the documents tabled in the Senate in 1973 by the then Attorney-General,  Senator Muphy,  when the Senate was concerned wtih Croatian terrorism? Does the Minister have the names of such persons who have a consistent association with terrorist organisations or activities and who are known to be involved in acts against a friendly power? 
I present the following petition from 808 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That as citizens of New South Wales and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that the Trade Practices Commission has again complained, this time in its fourth annual report, that staff shortages have affected the Commission's enforcement work in the consumer protection area and caused delays in investigating and getting matters into court? Does the Government not recognise that in one area at least excessive advertising, particularly of food items, is a matter of concern to the Trade Practices Commission but that staff ceilings have severely curtailed the capacity of that government agency to monitor food prices? Is the Senate to take it that the Government does not want the Trade Practices Commission to carry out fully its legislative functions and responsibilities? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Government noted the dramatic increase in profitability of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the degree of success of bankcards for banking institutions generally. Is he aware that 75 per cent of people using a bankcard issued by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation are paying 1 8 per cent interest? I also refer to the question asked of the Minister by  Senator Lewis  last month and the Minister's subsequent answer and ask: Is it not inappropriate that public and private banks should be charging 18 per cent when Government policy, and the policy of all responsible citizens, including economists, is to reduce interest rates as part of the antiinflation strategy? Would it not be desirable for the Government to suggest to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation that it take the initiative in the interest of free competition, to reduce interest charges? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is he aware that the Food Industry Council of Australia has requested that the draft report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the Australian sugar industry be released for public scrutiny? Can he say why the report is under double wraps? Is this the first occasion that such a report has not been made public? Is the Government suggesting that the guidelines previously adopted for the IAC not to release reports because there might be the prospect of financial gain apply in this instance? 
A debate on a money Bill affords to a senator an opportunity to speak on matters which could not otherwise be canvassed within the procedures of the Parliament. Some might say that what I have to say in this debate could have been said during the Budget debate, but there is a specific reason why I would like to make quite a detailed examination of some of the events of recent times and to relate them to what I consider to be the general problems facing the Australian economy. Therefore I utilise a debate on a money Bill for such a purpose. 
I think most of us v/ould be very pleased that finally the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has come clean with the Australian community and has admitted what has been said by the Labor movement for a considerable period about the problems of the economy and about the fact that we have reached a stage in our development where unemployment, particularly amongst young people, has become, and will remain for a considerable period, a permanent pan of our economy. I think the breakthrough in this area came in the very important speech that was made by the Victorian Minister for Social Welfare and Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Brian Dixon, a short while ago in which he predicted that by the year 1990 one-third of our work force could be unemployed. 
That highlighted for us on this side of the House an important change in attitude by the conservatives. They had accepted that there were some features that had to be recognised by the Australian community, and particularly by the Government, about the permanency of unemployment. Then we all recall the celebrated about face by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  in the House of Representatives a fortnight ago when he set about rectifying the erronerous views, expressed by the Government, that there was to be a decline in the rate of unemployment. He submitted estimates to the Parliament which had been compiled by his Department and which had been available to the Government for a considerable period showing that we had reached a new dimension in the degree of unemployment in this country. Now the Prime Minister has come to the party and admitted that his earlier forecasts and predictions are outdated. I think that is an important step for us. 
In this re-evaluation 1 think we have to look at the forces and factors behind the economic difficulties which are facing the world, particularly the industrialised countries. Of course, many people blame many others for this plight. Many people would blame the Government and politicians for the sad state of economic decline. Others would blame the business sector, the private sector, for its inability to take up the challenge which this Government placed before it when it came to office in 1975. Others, particularly the hard-line conservatives and some of the most extreme orthodox economists, would blame the unions and wage and salary earners for the difficulties. Some are even prepared to blame the Press for highlighting things which, they say, create difficulties in the economy and they blame a lack of confidence by those who seek to invest. Others would blame the bureaucracy for bad advice, particularly that given by those who advise the Government about the state of the economy. 
It seems to me that in all these areas, whilst there may be some element of truth that there is some share of blame, I think we have to go a little bit deeper to see where the blame really lies. That is what I want to talk about in my contribution today. It seems to me that we should be concerned about the direction the Australian economy has taken in post-war years. It is a new direction which has not been hitherto traversed in this country. It is a direction which I believe takes from the Government the power to control the economy. I know that when we on this side of the House have raised some questions relating to these matters in the past we have had the inevitable reaction from honourable senators on the Government side that we are beating the transnational horse. I think we should be concerned about the influence of transnational companies in Australia. I suggest it is that influence, combined with the era of automated technology, that has drastically and dramatically affected the opportunities for employment in this country. In fact it is not related to the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party or to the philosophy of this Government in any simple terms that these changes have come about. 
Transnational corporations have become a major instrument in internationalising capital and revolutionising the relationship between private capital and labour and public power. It is this new phenomenon which has developed which it seems to me ought to be more properly examined by the public at large and by the Parliament without falling back on the simplistic suggestions that this or that sector of the Australian people is responsible for the problems we face. In fact, as I found out on my visits overseas in the last year or so- it matters not whether one goes to Europe, the United Kingdom, the United States or even Japan- that somewhat similar types of problems face the economies of those countries. Of course it is rather strange to be in a country like Japan and to hear people talk about the problems of structural change. It is equally as strange to go to West Germany and to find that. Those two countries have virtually started afresh their whole productive processes following World War II in which their productive capacities were completely destroyed. With the aid of technology and largely American capital they were able to be revitalised and regenerated. In those countries I found people suggesting there was a need for restructuring their industries. 
It struck me as odd that that should be suggested when, of course, we have learned since the Vernon report was published almost 20 years ago in Australia and from many other reports that similar suggestions have been made. We have to accept the fact that transnational corporations play a central and dominating role in the international economic scene. This has an impact upon countries such as Australia which is one of the major trading nations of the world. According to a United Nations report of 1973 the value added by each of the major transnational corporations- we can put together about 10 of them- in 1971 exceeded $3 billion per annum which is greater than the gross national product of some 80 countries. The value added by all transnational corporations is roughly estimated to have been $500 billion in 1971 which is about one-fifth of the gross national product of all Western countries. 
One thing about which we find a degree of unanimity between the major political parties in this country is the matter of the changing terms of trade. This, of course, has a tremendous effect on countries like Australia. When we recognise that production by transnational corporations has surpassed trade as the main vehicle of international economic exchange that indicates the degree to which they are the principal force in the world scene. It is estimated that sales by transnational companies have reached approximately $330 billion, according to the latest figures taken out in 1971. This is somewhat larger than the total amount of exports of all Western economies. So, the size, geographical spread and the multiplicity of the activities of transnational companies, their command and generation of resources around the world and their use of such resources to furnish their own needs and objectives rival in terms of scope the implications of traditional economic exchange amongst nations. 
It has been said by no less an authority than the United States Chamber of Commerce that by the end of this century almost all trade in the Western world will be dominated by about 200 major international corporations. The problems associated with transnational corporations stem from a combination of their sheer size and their ability effectively to ignore national boundaries by transferring their resources from one country to another. In this way various policy instruments are largely taken out of the hands of national governments. No matter what government is in power these corporations are able to make decisions which transgress national boundaries and which interfere with whatever strategy may be followed by individual countries. We have to recognise this because transnational, unlike governments, are not directly accountable for their policies and actions to a broadly based electorate. Yet political parties and governments are. I suggest that this new influence needs a great deal of recognition by the Australian community. This degree of penetration by transnational corporations into national economies means that a large sector of industry has become more or less immune to government intervention and throws into relief the absurd theories of those who claim that there ought to be less government intervention when in fact we are living in a period when international intervention is reducing the limited powers which governments have in the economic scene. 
Let us look at the extent of the penetration of transnational corporations into the Australian economy and at the startling dimensions of some of these transnational corporations which have already been set up in Australia. Foreigncontrolled enterprises account now for about one-third of the total production of all Australian manufacturing industry. The latest figures which I have been able to get- those for 1975-76- show that the largest 86 foreign-controlled enterprises accounted for one-quarter of the total turnover of Australian manufacturing industry, and in some sections of manufacturing industry the per-, centages are higher. For example, in basic chemicals the largest 17 corporations control 70 per cent of the industries. Let us look at some of the corporations concerned. When one looks at the economic back-up that these major international corporations have one sees that it is quite considerable. General-Motors has assets exceeding $US2 1,664m and operates in some 30 countries. Amatil Ltd, whose parent company is British American Tobacco Industries, is involved in the retailing, tobacco, food and cosmetic industries in some 5 1 countries and has total assets of £3, 122m sterling. So one could go on and on to cite figures and statistics which show that there is a tremendous change in the international economic order. 
In 1976-77 transnational corporations controlled three-fifths of the total value added in the mining industry in Australia. Of course, if one looks at the tertiary sector at first glance one gets an indication that this is not happening in our banking areas. There is only one major bank in Australia which is acknowledged to be foreigncontrolled, and that is the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. In the others the existence of extensive nominee shareholdings makes it virtually impossible to identify ownership. But most of the larger banks in the world operate in Australia. These include the Bank of America, which had assets at the end of 1975 of 
SUS59 billion and a net income of $US256m, and Barclays, which is the largest branch banking network in the world with 4,700 subsidiaries and representative offices in 70 countries and which has assets of £7.4 billion sterling. 
In the finance sector, as we all know, the banks have been declining in relative importance. In economic terms banks in Australia previously held 60 per cent of all money and that figure has declined to 45 per cent. That 15 per cent has been taken up largely by finance companies and money market corporations where foreign control is very significant. In 1976, for example, foreign-controlled corporations held about half of the assets of the finance companies operating in this country. Companies such as IAC Ltd, Lombard Australia Ltd, the FNCB- Waltons corporation and AVCO Financial Services Ltd are all foreign-controlled and the information that I have been able to gather shows that on the shortterm money market the degree of foreign control is estimated at between 25 per cent and 50 per cent. According again to official statistics, 37.8 per cent of our general insurance business is foreign-controlled. Further, 58.6 per cent of the tourist accommodation industry is foreigncontrolled and just over half of all the companies operating in the advertising area are foreignowned. 
So I think that it is true to say that transnational corporations have penetrated significantly into all the areas of economic life in Australia and affect every day the lives of all Australians, from the cereal we eat for breakfast to the clothes we wear and the cars we drive. The decisions which are made in respect of these industries, such as what to produce, the price to be charged, how to produce it and the introduction of technology to take advantage of government decisions, flow right down from the board rooms in Detroit, New York or London and affect us every day. Australia's gross domestic product in 1976-77 was some $82,224m but some of the transnational corporations are larger than this in these terms and combined, of course, they completely dwarf the Australian economy. Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises in Australia, which this Government supports, has reached such an extent that by 1974 one-third of the total company income, after tax, was accounted for by dividend and profits payable abroad and the cost of servicing overseas capital in Australia took up about one-fifth of Australia's export income. The sheer magnitude and percentage of such key economic aggregates accounted for by the transnational corporations gives some indication of the influence that these corporations' decisions have with regard to investment and capital movements and what they mean to the Australian economy, to the economic policies of this Government or, for that matter, any other government, to the monetary and fiscal situation, to the exchange rate, to the balance of payments and to the size and direction of investment. I think that it is crucial for the Parliament to recognise and realise that the decisions made by these corporations are guided and determined by their aim to maximise global profits in the long run. There is no guarantee that decisions taken on that basis or based on that criteria will necessarily be in the best interests of the Australian economy and people. 
One of the most important influences that we in Australia have to recognise is contained in the ability of these corporations to transfer capital freely from one country to another. Many techniques are available for such corporations to shunt capital into and out of Australia regardless of exchange controls. One such technique, of course, is transfer pricing, which is the arbitrary setting of prices paid for imports or prices received for exports. For example, a company wishing to shift funds out of Australia- we will perhaps talk about that shortly- easily achieves that objective by charging its Australian subsidiary, for its imports from a foreign subsidiary, prices which are higher than the real value of imports. There is some evidence that this has taken place in Australia, particularly with respect to the oil and petroleum industry. 
International organisations such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and even the United Nations itself, by a recent decision, are investigating transfer pricing specifically for the purpose of seeing what disrupting effect it has on the effectiveness of domestic economies. I give one example. The British Monopolies Commission found that the pharmaceutical transnational company of Hoffman-La Roche was paying many times the normal price for its raw material imports bought from a subsidiary and charging the British health service £370 sterling and £922 sterling a kilo for two drugs of comparable quality which an Italian company was selling at a profit of £9 sterling and £20 sterling. That gives an indication of how the system is being rorted by those who are in a position to apply pricing policies which are detrimental to the consumer, to governments and particularly to government agencies, involved as they are in health schemes. 
It is impossible to quantify the impact of overstated transfer prices and service payments on the costs and profitability of transnational corporations in Australia, but there can be little doubt that the practices exist and substantially reduce the profits of the Australian subsidiary. One can only wonder at the extent to which the over-pricing of imports raises the final sale price of commodities and thus generates inflation and reduces the tax base in Australia and the revenue available for public expenditure on housing, health, education and other publicly-provided goods and services. Of course, if this is a widespread practice- and I suggest that it is- it is small wonder that the Government is forced to move into new areas, as it has on this occasion, by taxing disadvantaged and disabled people and introducing taxes on service pensions for exservicemen and on invalid and age pensions. Of course, we on this side of the chamber have lost track as the Government shunts back and forth in the area as public opinion in Australia expresses its disgust at the Government's new taxing policies which were announced in the Budget and which are changed almost weekly. These sorts of new taxes would not be necessary if in fact there were proper surveillance of the activities of these major international corporations. 
Capital transfers are another way that transnational corporations have an effect on the domestic economy. They have a big effect on the exchange rate and the balance of payments. There is no doubt that the 17 per cent devaluation of the Australian dollar in November 1976 was caused by a massive capital outflowspeculation against the value of the Australian dollar- of some $482m in the four months to October 1976. On 30 August the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported that a former international banker had accused the transnational banks of manipulating the value of the American dollarhitherto the most powerful currency in the world- to earn huge profits. This is what was said by  Mr David  Edwards, a former employee of Citibank. I noticed in this morning's issue of the  Australian Financial Review  that Citibank has just come into Australia.  Mr Edwards  said: 
The dollar is not falling in value: It is being pushed by a handful of people with more power than any one government. 
I pose for the consideration of the Senate these questions: Who pays for the profits reaped from such speculation? I submit that we do- the ordinary man in the street; the citizen; the taxpayer. Who pays for the resultant instability of the Australian economy and the international economy? 
We do, because whatever accumulation of capital comes about as a result of such speculation somebody has to pay for it, and it is us. 
The movement of capital into and out of Australia affects the exchange rate, the balance of payments, the supply of money and, through it, inflation. The Australian Government has lost a not insignificant degree of control over these key economic variables, as it has over monetary and fiscal policy. I suggest that we should not fall for the simplistic notions that so many of our orthodox economists talk about, such as that our problems are due to the overhang in the wages and salaries area, to the work of the unions, to the failure of the business sector that is privately owned in Australia, to the activities of a State government, to too much public spending or, as we have heard so often in this place, to those three years in office of the Labor Government, from 1973 to 1975, that caused all of this. In fact we were the victims, not the sponsors, of this process that has been going on relatively unnoticed and certainly unpublicised in the post-war years. 
I want to turn my attention now to a subject that has been taking up a lot of space in the media recently and one which has been the subject of numerous government reports under both a Labor government and a Liberal governmentthe problems confronting the Australian manufacturing industry. I want to relate what I have been saying to the employment problem, to the nature of our industry, the dislocation that has taken place in industry in recent years and the fact that almost 250,000 jobs have virtually disappeared in Australia as a result of the problems facing manufacturing industry. What did the Jackson report of 1975 say? It said there was a deepseated and long-standing malaise' in Australian manufacturing which 'is stalled and lacks purpose ... It needs to export to grow ... is not well suited to the challenges of international competition.' The Jackson Committee went on to explain the inefficient structure of Australian manufacturing in these terms: 
Much of the equipment in factories ... is old, inefficient and overdue for replacement; desirable technical innovations have been delayed. 
. There are grounds for believing that production costs are excessive in many industries because production, given the nature of the technology and the size of the market, is fragmented over too many producers and plants. 
We know that that is true in your State of New South Wales,  Mr Deputy President,  in South Australia and particularly in Victoria where the economy of the State is dependent upon the efficiency, maintenance and healthiness of a particular industry. The Jackson Committee was concerned with the high costs of production in Australian manufacturing resulting from the use of outdated technology and the fragmentation of production between a large number of underused plants. According to the latest figures that I have been able to obtain, Australian manufacturing is under-capacity by about 30 per cent. In other words, it is operating at about only 70 per cent maximum capacity. Given the importance of transnational, to which I have referred, in the Australian manufacturing sector, and especially in some key sectors, one is entitled to ask: What effect have the investment decisions of the transnationals had on the efficiency and performance of the Australian manufacturing sector and are their actions in any way related to the problems in manufacturing? Especially is this so when, on the one hand, we find the defenders of transnational arguing that they are important vehicles for bringing technology and higher standards of living to Australia. On the other hand, despite the massive penetration of transnational into Australia's manufacturing industry, there is a widespread belief that Australia is relatively technologically backward. We see the Fraser Government accepting that view by giving incentives for the introduction of technology without realising the flow-on effects that this could have upon the work force. 
Throughout the post-war period Australia followed an industrialisation policy of import substitution behind tariff barriers. Many transnational companies, especially those from the United States, entered the Australian economy to maintain their market share when tariff barriers hindered their exports to the Australian domestic market. They did so in order to get behind the tariff wall. When one transnational came into the Australian market it was inevitable that international competitors would follow for fear that they would lose their share of the market. This tended to produce a great proliferation of small scale foreign-owned units with high costs of production. A study of the Australian chemical industry in 1974 indicated that foreign subsidiaries' unit production costs were typically higher than those of overseas affiliates. The higher costs arose from the installation of plant of a size that was smaller than similar production plants elsewhere. The study suggested that there were only a few production lines where the Australian plant approached 'rninimum economic size' let alone 'world size'. More usually the Australian plants, depending on the industry, were about 10 per cent to 50 per cent of the size required for effective world competition. Thus the transnational chemical corporations had installed in Australia a multitude of plants that could not compete on world markets. If the same were true in other manufacturing industries- and I suggest that it is- it could explain the poor export performance of Australia's manufacturing industry as well as any notions of higher than economically warranted wages for Australian workers. 
It is worth while noting that this lack of export potential was acceptable to the transnationals since they had little ambition to export in any case. Export markets were catered for by their overseas affiliates. Subsidiaries in Australia were often expressly prohibited from exporting to certain areas.  Mr Parry,  of the University of New South Wales, in a paper on multinational enterprises and what he called imperfect competition, published in April 1977- this is a relatively recent survey and I would ask honourable senators to ponder what he says- said: 
The exercise of restrictive practices by parent enterprises with affiliates in Australian manufacturing has been documented in a number of studies . . . such restrictions are commonly directed to regional limitations on exports . . . 
If the firms were domestically owned one could expect market forces to bring about consolidation over a period, but when they are owned by extremely large internationally competing corporations this does not take place. The large international firm with global financial resources and a commitment to individual market positions can resist many of the normal market forces. This is especially true when tariffs provide protection from overseas competition. Yet we are told that we must let the market forces be the generator or the determinator upon which changes will come about in Australian industry. But in the absence of such protection, it could be argued that since the same companies operating in Australia also operate the source of potential competition in other countries they would not allow imports from the foreign operation to damage the profitability of their Australian operation as long as it is in their global interests. Some people argue- it has been argued by many people- that Australia's tariff policy was the cause of the problem while others argue that it was not. Even in the absence of that protection these companies would provide for their own protection if that course was in their own economic interests. So the investment decisions of the transnationals resulted, I suggest, in an industry structure that was not only incapable of competing on world markets but also inefficient in producing for the Australian market.  Of course  what we have seen is an attempt by many Australian companies to go off-shore in order to compete on international markets. 
Although the plants installed in the chemical industry by the transnationals were not of sufficient size to completely and actively compete on world markets, they were still too big to produce effectively for the small Australian market. So under-utilisation of plant capacity also led to higher unit costs. Under-utilisation of plant capacity was found to be a persistent feature by a survey of the chemical industry that was carried out in 1974. The problem arose because the transnationals realised that plants of the size of their overseas subsidiaries were too big for Australia's small market. But rather than undertake technological adaptation and produce a plant and a process that was dovetailed to the needs and the situation of the Australian economy, in most cases they merely installed a scaled-down version of the existing overseas plants or they took the other step of underutilisation of production. 
I find the statements made by the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  about increasing productivity so much hot air because in fact the private sector will not increase productivity when decisions will be made to suit the international needs of the parent companies which are not concerned primarily with the domestic economic position of Australia. A recent study which was conducted by the Melbourne based Economic Research Unit Pty Ltd at the request of the Department of Industry and Commerce found similar reasons for the current problems of Australia's manufacturing industry. It is interesting that when I wrote to the Department to get a copy of that report- a brief reference has been made to it in journals- it was not made available. It has not been made available to the Parliament because the Department found that some of the points that I have been making to be so as they relate to other sectors of Australia's manufacturing industry. 
Given the high rate of capital formation in Australia, that study conducted by a government department concluded that Australia's manufacturing industry's performance in the 1960s and 1970s should have been better than it actually was. The study suggested that one reason for this was that manufacturing activity in Australia did not make efficient use of its fixed assets. In other words, there was under-utilisation of installed capacity. The study also found that there was no significant improvement in capital productivity during most of the 1 960s and 1970s. If the report was freely available to us we would be in a better position to make an evaluation of it. I suggest that if the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had been studying the reports that have been made available to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  over a considerable number of months, if not a year, he would not have made some of his false premises and statements relating to unemployment. 
To get back to productivity, the reason for this poor productivity record was partly due to a relatively slow rate of adoption of new technology. The reports states that this was found to have been related to the heavy domination by foreign controlled firms. It is perhaps more than significant that this study was never made public by the Department of Industry and Commerce. So, on entering the Australian market, the transnational companies made no attempt to construct plants that would be internationally competitive and no attempt to construct plants that were technologically adapted to the Australian situation. They have made no attempt since. That is hardly surprising given the fact that research and development is centralised in the parent corporation overseas where the technological needs of smaller economies, such as Australia, are of secondary importance and receive short shrift. Presumably these investment decisions are acceptable to the corporations- that is their estimate- and suit their global strategies. But they are patently not acceptable to us and are not in the best interests of Australia. 
We now have a situation where manufacturing is characterised by a proliferation of plants of inefficient scale and high unit cost, as well as excess capacity. I suggest that there is a reason for this. The Minister for Productivity ought to conduct a more thorough research into these areas and not concentrate on repeating statements that an increase in productivity is the solution to the problem. Incidentally he did that this morning on the radio program  A.M.  when he suggested that if we could restructure our manufacturing industry, industry by industry, and if we could increase productivity, all the ills of our present economic difficulties would vanish. Considerations such as these reveal the shallowness of arguments which say that all of Australia's economic ills happened just in the years 1972 to 1975. 
I think that this Government, the Parliament and honourable senators opposite should put that view out of their thinking- the problems are more fundamental than that and mere repetition of rhetoric goes nowhere towards the solution of the more fundamental problems with which we are confronted- if in fact they are genuinely concerned, and I suggest that many honourable senators opposite are, with the problems concerning the economy, the lack of job opportunities and the permanence that now seems to be part of the unemployment scene in this country. Consideration of these matters clearly reveals the folly of the policy which the Government has been following over the last two or three years, the policy that an export led recovery which the Government has been following over the last two or three years will lead us out of the current recession. That policy is supported by one Minister one day but another day he will say that we will get a consumer-led recovery. 
I think I have shown that the policies of these international corporations have hampered the export of manufactured goods from Australia and it is likely that they will continue to do so in the future. The reliance upon that strategy will get us absolutely nowhere. The global strategies of these transnationals appear to have been undergoing some change in the 1970s as they exploit the lower labour cost in the developing nations and then ship components of the finished products back to the developed markets where they can be sold at a massive profit. Of course it has always been suggested that all the problems facing the Third World countries- the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  has been quite vocal about this in respect of our trade imbalance with the Asian countries- would disappear if Australia were just to drop its barriers and import more goods. To make that suggestion, with a mere 14 million people in this country with a very high standard of living and a limited amount of money to spend on consumer goods, is another simplistic approach. 
I believe that we have to determine how we can maintain a viable manufacturing industry with the limitation on exports. We should resist being integrated into the world economy purely as a supplier of agricultural and mineral commodities. I think that that is the role that has been assigned to Australia because we are able to produce agricultural goods in great abundance and we are a very rich country as far as our mineral resources are concerned. But if we are to be shunted into that dead end, if we are to be put into that tunnel, there is no way for manufacturing industry to survive. I believe that Australia must reject being sucked into the global strategy that assigns us to that subordinate position. I do not believe that these processes are remote from us and I do not think they are unrelated to the general problems of unemployment that exist in this country. I can see only one way for us to examine a short term approach to more fundamental problems that need to be examined in respect of how we handle ourselves in this international ball game. Certainly the direction in which this Government is taking us, away from public sector spending, as I see it, removes one of the few avenues in which we can seek a short term solution to the problems. That is to say, we could follow a path somewhat similar to that of the Japanese Government, which is a conservative government, which has suggested that there is some future in developing the public sector. 
I do not think that we can continually accept the terms of the transnational companies as they relate to Australia's development. We should not be pawns in their global strategy. I do not think that we should continue to follow policies which ignore the degree of their influence upon our domestic economy. I make no secret of the fact that I would like to see a reappraisal of the goal of growth for growth 's sake. It follows, therefore, that I do not accept  Mr Macphee  's general thesis or the adoption of new technology for efficiency's sake. What good is the adoption of more advanced technology if all that does is to produce more and more goods that fewer and fewer people can buy because they have been rendered jobless by that so-called 'efficient' technology? It can hardly be called efficient if it wastes a sixth, a third, a half, or a quarter of our work force. Yet that seems to be the direction in which we are travelling. 
The honourable senator's Ministers are now saying that they have under-estimated the degree to which unemployment has become a permanent feature in our economy. When we listen to the speeches that are made by Ministers we find that they vary from Minister to Minister- in fact, they vary from day to day- on the way in which the Government sees its areas of responsibility. All that I am suggesting is that the Government ought to add another dimension to its examination of the factors that are creating the problems of this country. I refer to the extent to which foreign owned companies are able to determine the direction of the economy, are able to determine in what areas investment funds should be placed, are able to determine whether companies will expand and are able to determine whether jobs will disappear for all time from very important sections of the Australian economy. 
It has to be recognised that in the past decade the percentage of our work force in manufacturing industry has dropped from something like 29 per cent to 22 per cent; in agriculture it has dropped from something like 9 per cent to 6 per cent; and in the tertiary sector, which now has been highlighted, we have seen the advent of new technology. Surveys and studies that have been carried out by the French and German governments have indicated that something like 33 to 40 per cent of people engaged in the private tertiary sector will be rendered unemployed as a result of the advent of new technology. If this Government persists with its policy of cutbacks in public spending, I just wonder whether the forecast of  Mr Brian  Dixon that something like one-third of our work force could be unemployed at the end of the next decade will be much closer to reality than this Government has been prepared to accept. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that population changes in Western Australia will require shortly a redistribution of Federal electorates in that State? Has the Minister any information as to when this process will begin? Does he contemplate that the additional electorate will be at the expense of some other State's representation? 
It is customary for the front bench of the Opposition to lead in opposition to the Budget but, as we know, on this occasion the advent of a number of new honourable senators on both sides has enabled them to take advantage of the situation to make their maiden speeches. Those of us on the Opposition front bench have seen unveilling from week to week a very strange picture in respect of the Budget as the Government changes its strategy and its tack. In fact, one has had virtually to re-write one 's speech and change one's approach to this Budget because the Government has retreated to a considerable degree in the face of public opinion. It retreated further even as late as yesterday. It is my privilege, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party Opposition, to move as an amendment to the motion: 'That the Senate take note of the Papers': 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate condemns the Budget as disastrous, dishonest, inequitable and inhumane in that it: 
will intensify and prolong the already severe economic depression; 
will increase unemployment, official and disguised, by at least 80,000; 
represents an abdication by government of its responsibility to attempt to restore full employment; 
further depresses the business sector, particularly the small business sector; 
indicates the Government's total disregard of the social destructiveness and economic wastefulness of unemployment; (!) hinders the fight against inflation by adding significantly to the overall level of prices through substantial increases in indirect taxes; 
blatantly redistributes income from those in need to the most privileged sections of society; 
will increase the degree of economic hardship for the poorest and most disadvantaged groups in our community; 
indicates the Government's cynical disregard for honesty and integrity by reneging on important promises; and 
considerably understates the true extent of the Budget deficit'. 
A number of those matters have been dealt with by my colleagues in the debate. I shall deal with some aspects of the amendment in the time that is available to me. Firstly, I wish to indicate that the Budgets which have been presented by the Government during its three years in office- we are debating this Government's third Budgethave so far completely failed to realise the expectations of the Treasurer who presented the Budget on the various occasions. For example, let us look at what  Mr Lynch  said in 1976-77. Amongst other things, he said that the private sector would grow and that confidence was gradually returning to the economy. He went on to say that part of the Government's policy was to assist those most in need. He said that to do that the Government would persist in its endeavours to have full personal tax indexation, that it would make improvements in its assistance to families, and that it would retain Medibank. He said further that the Government was confident that private consumer expenditure would continue to grow. In the 1977-78 Budget the same Treasurer said that taxes had taken too much from the community and that real wages were actually higher in 1977 than they had been a year earlier. The Opposition will have something to say about these assessments shortly. 
On the occasion of presenting this Budget the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said that the aim of the Budget was to pursue higher levels of economic activity and to create greater job opportunities. Since there has been somewhat of a somersault by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who has at long last recognised what the Labor Party and the trade union movement have been asserting consistently- namely, that job opportunities are fast disappearing in this country and that real wages are in fact dropping- it is pleasing to note that  Mr Street  at least has recognised that there is an element of permanency to the levels of unemployment that we have at the present time. That is something which was not anticipated by the Government. 
I suggest that we are faced with the fact that from the outset this Budget has been a deceitful one and that it has sought to convince the Australian people that the strategy which is being followed would be successful in restoring some level of economic growth and would reduce the level of unemployment. Not only do we have a deceitful Budget but also we have a deceitful Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He is the Prime Minister who has said that he supports wage indexation. We know that he has constantly been before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in an effort to have wage indexation deleted. He has said that he supports tax indexation, but we have seen evidence in this Budget which indicates that that no longer exists. He said that he would retain Medibank but this Budget dismembers Medibank. In fact, this Budget creates real problems for a great many Australian people. He said that the Government's policy would be to reduce unemployment. Already many prominent members of the Liberal Party, including those honourable senators who engaged in the debate yesterday, have paid some tribute to what they say is the courageous statement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I do not know why it takes courage to tell the truth. Obviously, the truth falls very easily from the lips of the Prime Minister! 
We have heard Government spokesmen, including the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  stating that the whole purpose of the Budget was to help the disadvantaged. We have seen the Minister very much on the defensive as she has been asked questions as to why there has been a change in the Government's attitude in respect of taxing children's income. I suppose we can pay some tribute to the Government for the fact that it has at least paid some heed to public opinion. In fact, it has made four changes to the Budget since it was first brought down. It is small wonder that the Government has asked the Opposition to expedite the passage of the Budget and to try to complete the debate on the Budget today. One wonders how many other policies of the Budget will be changed if the debate continues for much longer. In passing, one can lament the fact that the Government passed up the opportunity to introduce a resources tax or a secondary tax on the international corporations which are taking out so much of the profits from this country. The Government failed to take that action but it set out to introduce into this Budget for the first time the imposition of taxes on disadvantaged sections of the Australian community, whether they be children, those working in sheltered workshops, or disabled people. To the everlasting discredit of this Government, it is now even taxing those in receipt of pensions for total and permanent incapacity and it proposes to means test pensions paid to aged people. The Government has introduced all these taxes in order to make a few lousy million dollars, even though it had the opportunity in this Budget to alter drastically the direction in which taxation has been proceeding in this country. 
I was somewhat dismayed to hear  Senator Scott's  contribution in this debate today because it is clear that, whilst he makes a plea to us not to use extravagant language and to appreciate and to narrow differences that exist in the political spectrum, he did not properly read the documents which form the basis of this debate. For example, the documents show that under the three Labor Government Budgets taxation per head of population increased by some 35 per cent. That is not something about which we would be ashamed because we were attempting to direct income into important areas of social neglect. By examining the levels of payments that were made to local government and to the States in order to increase the whole infrastructure of public transport and to make some impact upon the housing problems of this country, I think I can say that we succeeded in achieving our aim. 
It is interesting to note that as a result of the three Budgets introduced by this Government, taxation per head of population has increased by 37 per cent.  Senator Scott  said, as did  Senator Carrick  at Question Time today, that taxation has fallen. That statement is not borne out by the facts. I wish that those honourable senators who want to debate these matters would check the information they have against the information that is freely available in the Government's own documents. I advise them to do the same in respect of excise duty which is one of the important areas of indirect taxation. In the three years in which Labor was in office indirect taxation and excise duty went up by only 13 per cent. In the three years that the Liberal Party has been in office it has gone up by some 53 per cent. 
I would like to refer to other matters in the Budget to try to indicate the way in which government spending is misapplied. I shall refer now to page 203 of Budget Document No. 1. Let us look at what happened to education, for example, in the three years under Labor Government. Outlays on education increased by $994m. 
Under the Liberals the outlays on education have risen by $338m. Outlays on health and welfare in three years under the Labor Administration rose by $4,600m. Under the Liberals these outlays rose by $ 1,954m. Under Labor the outlays on housing and urban developmentregional decentralisation- increased by $2,809m but under the Liberals they are down by $329m. Even in an area such as culture and recreation the outlays during the three-year period of Labor increased to $94m but under the Liberals they are only $27m. Payments to the States are an integral part of the system in this country insofar as taxation at the State and local government level is concerned. They are a very high component of taxation. During Labor's three years in office total payments to the States rose to $9,63 lm but under the Liberals they have gone up to only $4, 747m. 
Dealing with one aspect of housing, I was pleased to see the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  draw attention in recent times to the problems facing the building and construction industry. He said: 
We all know that the building and construction industry is at a low ebb- it's up to the Federal Government to stimulate the building industry as far as it can. 
What has happened in respect of Budget outlays for housing? Under three years of Labor from 1973 to 1975 housing outlays represented 6 per cent of total Budget outlays. Under three years of Liberal Government, including this year's Budget, outlays have dropped to 1 .7 per cent of the total Budget outlays, indicating of course a very unsatisfactory position as far as Government efforts are concerned to improve the quality of life of our people. We of the Opposition are concerned that this Government came to power to boost confidence in the private sector of the community, to develop a change of direction in our manufacturing industry, to give incentives to export production and to bring about an increase in consumer spending. In each of those areas the Government has failed miserably to achieve its objectives. I do not have to do anything other than to refer to two reputable sources to prove what I have said. The Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd in its  Business Indicators  bulletin said: 
Features of 1977-78 were subdued growth in real private final consumption expenditure, which was only 2.3 per cent higher than in 1976-77 . . . 
It went on to say: 
Despite the broad Budget parameters, the economy could expand more rapidly in 1 978-79 than in 1977-78, providing there is an expansion of private sector demand. However, even on the optimistic assumptions of the Budget, economic growth in 1978-79 will be insufficient to prevent unemployment from increasing through the course of 1 978-79. 
That statement was published prior to  Mr Street's  revelations and prior to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  coming down from his high horse and accepting the reality of the situation. The ANZ Bank went on to say: 
The most important assumptions in this outlook- 
It is dealing with its estimates of the economyare  that private consumption and capital expenditure will be the major contributing factors ... it appears inevitable that the higher indirect taxes and increases in personal income tax (ranging between 4.7 per cent and 2.5 per cent) will tend to dampen other areas of spending. Real household disposable income in 1977-78 was 1.2 per cent higher than in 1976-77. 
That proves very conclusively that the Government's optimistic expectations in the Budget have not been and will not be realised. There is a further indication of this in yesterday's issue of the  Australian Financial Review  which states that the latest figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics show a depressing position. The article reads: 
The production figures show an overall weakness with only eight of the 31 seasonally adjusted production indicators rising . . . 
The production results for August follow a similarly poor performance in July when only 14 of the indicators rose, not a good sign for the Federal Government's economic predictions . . . 
Unless the Budget has provided the stimulus necessary for a boost in production, the July and August results are early indications that the Budget predictions will be difficult to meet. 
So it is not hard to believe that the 'she'll be right' optimism of this Budget will be severely misplaced. This is a Budget with a changing face, a Budget which obviously is a panic Budget, a Budget which obviously was changed at the very last minute before it was presented to the Parliament, a Budget which showed all the earmarks of change in the Medibank policy and in introducing these new forms of taxation which now have been shown to be so unpallatable that they have had to be changed repeatedly over the last several weeks. It is no wonder that we of the Opposition make the assertion that the Prime Minister is dishonest. Clearly he must be looking at a mirror on the wall when he says that everybody he spoke to accepted the fact that the Budget was a good Budget. If he was not speaking to himself I do not know who he spoke to because he certainly was not taking notice of public opinion in Australia.  His  statements belie the results of the gallup public opinion poll which was published in the  Courier-Mail on  19 September. It is interesting to have a look at the reaction of the people to this Government's Budgets over the three-year period from 1976 to 1978. Of the persons surveyed only 25 per cent were dissatisfied with the 1976 Budget- its first Budget. The following year this percentage increased to 39 and this year 60 per cent of the people surveyed were dissatisfied with the Budget. 
The Budget is characterised by a fundamentally misplaced optimism on the pan of the Government, an optimism- and the Government hangs its hat upon this-that says that if only real wage levels, profit levels, and other economic aggregates and relativities can be returned to what they were before the period 1972 to 1975 then prosperity and full employment will return automatically. I think it is clear from all the assessments that are made by a variety of persons at all levels of economic forecasting that that is not going to happen. This Government believes that by some unknown mechanism consumers will spend, capitalists will invest, people will be employed and everything will be rosy. I think we have to come to the point of view that this is an optimism that is misplaced and that this strategy will fail for two reasons. Firstly, there is evidence to suggest that the relativities may not be out of line as much as  Mr Fraser  suggests. For instance, take his real wage overhang thesis- the postulation that real wages have risen out of line with productivity and that businesses are therefore shedding labour. A study entitled 'Real Wages and Unemployment: An Alternative View' by P. J. Sheehan of the Centre for Applied Economic Research at the University of New South Wales, in Occasional Paper No. 4 put out in March 1978, calculates the series for real wages and productivity in the market sector for the period 1966-67 to 1976-77.  His  conclusions are very interesting. When a 4. 1 per cent productivity trend is employed there is no wage overhang by the second quarter of 1977, whether the base period chosen is 1967 or 1 972. By the second quarter of 1 977 the excess of real wage cost over trend productivity was minus 3.1 per cent on a 1967 base and minus 0.4 per cent on a 1972 base. If a lower trend rate for productivity is used, such as 3.4 per cent, then there is an overhang of 3.1 per cent in the second quarter of 1977 against a 1972 base and an overhang of 3.7 per cent against a 1967 base. He concluded: 
Overall, then, and taking account of the many uncertainties in all of these calculations, it must be very doubtful whether there was by mid- 1977 any excess of real wages cost per hour over trend market sector productivity per hour, and if there was any 'overhang' it was almost certainly small. 
Yet the Government bases its real prognosis of this problem on the suggestion that the problems lie in the area of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We have this strange situation where Ministers have the temerity to attack those people who sit in judgment after hearing submissions by governments, employees and their organisations and other interested groups. We had the situation where the Victorian Government disagreed with the submissions of the Federal Government to the court, and after considering the debate and the presentation of viewpoints, the court came to the conclusion that wages ought to be increased. The Government has suggested now that the court is responsible for all the problems associated with the economic downturn in this country, as it has suggested for some time that the trade union movement has been responsible for those problems. 
I do not think there is any doubt that the Government does not know where it is going. It is making day-to-day changes in the Budget strategy but it is not prepared to look at the basis of the problem that faces most of the industrialised countries and of course Australia too as part of that international sector. The post-war reconstruction period in which we saw a great development of production and the boom period of the 1950s and 1960s have ended. There have been the changes to economic circumstances occasioned by international factors- the oil price rise, the problems of weakening international trade, the ever-deepening penetration of our economy by major international corporations, the degree of inflation which was triggered off to pay for the involvement of the Western world in wars in the Asian region. I do not think there is any doubt that these factors were not considered by the Government when it drew up its strategy for the Budget. 
It may well be that the outlook of economic units has changed. They might not react to the economic signs at the same level or pace that they did prior to 1973. Consumers' consumption and saving habits may have changed. Similarly, businessmen's investment habits may have changed. If we try to return to the pre- 1973 levels of economic relativities, we may not get the reaction that we got then. Recovery will not be automatic. Of course that is the problem that faces this Government, that is, the basis upon which it has developed its economic program no longer has any relevance to this country and to the policies pursued by this Government. It has brought down a Budget which can be described only as miserly and mean in its approach to disadvantaged people. It destroys the words of encouragement that the Government tried to set forth in its 
Budgets in the previous two years, puts at risk the pensions of a great number of people, and creates a great deal of uncertainty in those disadvantaged sections of the community which the Government claims it wants to assist. 
As we look at the taxation proposals, there is no doubt that the Government is reaping even greater funds from the average citizen. In fact it has introduced into the taxing system new areas of taxation which will only weaken the capacity of ordinary people to purchase goods in the market place. Of course we know that the Government is considering the imposition of a retail tax, a turnover tax, which would be disastrous of course if it were to have any particular substance. As one of the Australian Labor Party's spokesmen on economic matters and matters that are associated with consumers, I think I ought to indicate how much the Government strategy is astray with respect to consumer spending. The Budget is typical of this Government's contemptuous, disdainful and cynical attitude towards consumers. It has in fact taken $1,1 76m out of the pockets of consumers. We, the community, will pay $676m more for petrol; $ 194m more for beer; $12 lm more for spirits, that is scotch; and $120m more for tobacco. The Government has imposed a duty on imports of $65m which will be passed on to consumers. 
All of this means that it has taken out of the hands of the consumers a considerable sum of money, a sum of money which it must surely be obvious to the Government, will not be spent on a consumer-led recovery, which of course was the basis upon which it came to power in 1 975. It just seems to me that no matter what area of this Government 's economic policies that one examines, one can come only to the conclusion that the amendment which I have moved on this occasion and which seeks to place its finger on the cynical attitude that this Government takes with respect to all of the parameters upon which a Budget has been based should be supported. In fact the Government has no policy which will create more jobs; it has no policy upon which the Australian community can be encouraged to spend; and it has no policy upon which one can see any development of growth in the private sector of the economy. It is for these reasons that we seek the support of the Senate for the amendment which I have moved. 
Of course in recent days there has been a degree of rebellion on the part of Government senators. According to Press reports, a sufficient number of Government senators would have crossed the floor to drastically alter the direction of this Budget with respect to the new areas of taxation which were contemplated in the Budget which was brought down on 1 5 August. It seems to me that those people who have been described in the newspapers as rebels got a great deal of credit for their attitude. I would be the last person to criticise them for their endeavours to change the Budget. But some credit must surely be given to the fact that whatever they wanted to do could not have been achieved without the efforts of honourable senators of the Australian Labor Party. If changes were to be made to this very deceitful and dishonest Budget, they could have been made only with the support of the 26 solid votes of honourable senators of the Australian Labor Party and with a couple of votes from the honourable senators of the Australian Democrats, who, from the way in which they have asked questions and contributed to the discussion, could have been relied upon to support the changes. 
If credit is to be given, let us give it where it is due. A substantial majority of honourable senators on three sides of this House would have combined to destroy the inhumane aspects of this Budget which for the first time introduced taxes on sections of the community that have never hitherto been taxed, taxes on the most disadvantaged people in the community. The taxes were designed to raise a paltry $4m here, $2m there and $3m somewhere else. But the Government is letting the big corporations of this country escape their financial obligations. Governments are allowed to carry out their important function of redistributing wealth and are given the opportunity to provide services for the people whom they claim to represent. If the inhumane aspects have been thwarted- I suggest they have been thwarted- let us give credit, firstly, to the Australian Labor Party, and the Australian Council of Trade Unions and all of its affiliated organisations which have indicated from the moment the Budget was presented their disgust with the endeavours of this Government to pursue a Budget which placed misery and hardship on the disadvantaged members of the community and in fact redistributed taxes away from those people to the wealthy and privileged sections of the community. It is for those reasons that I have presented an amendment to the Senate. Those honourable senators who I applaud for taking the steps to change their Government's policies can at least pay some tribute to the very major grouping in this place that would have brought about the essential changes in a vote on the floor of the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It arises from the collapse and bankruptcy of several travel agencies in recent years. Did not the Government give the Parliament a commitment to license travel agents following the tragic loss of funds by those seeking to travel overseas? Why has the Government decided not to honour that commitment of registration? What protection can the Government and the tourist industry give travellers in the future? 
I refer the Leader of the Government to a question on notice of 10 December 1976 on radioactive waste and to a reply forwarded to me by his predecessor,  Senator Withers.  The question I asked contained six parts. The answer from  Senator Withers  stated: 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Defence has directed that an inquiry be conducted into all aspects of the material buried at Maralinga as a consequence of the tests conducted under the auspices of the Memorandum of Arrangements between the United Kingdom and Australian Government. 
As that answer was given nearly 20 months ago, I ask the Minister whether that inquiry was established. If so, what were its terms of reference? Has it yet reported to Cabinet? If so, is the report available? Has it been considered by the Government? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I would like to make some brief remarks on this lengthy report. Obviously honourable senators have not had an opportunity to read the report, least of all to debate it with any degree of understanding of what is involved in the Government's new proposals. I think it ought to be said that the report refers to the fact that the airline industry and transport generally as it relates to the airline industry have not been discussed or debated in the Parliament for many years. I think that the Government ought to give us an undertaking that it will give us such an opportunity to debate the many recommendations and proposals that are contained in the report. From the brief survey that I have been able to make of the report, I am led to believe that airline traffic in this country has grown tremendously in recent years. Something like one million passengers leave and return to our country in any year. 
I think I read somewhere recently that about $ 1,000m is expended on overseas travel by Australians. This indicates that overseas travel has become a very important industry. I request that the Government set aside some time in the Senate and in the House of Representatives, of course, for a proper debate on all that has been recommended. The report has many ramifications. It is a change in policy and a change in direction, and is a matter of immense publicinterest and importance. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Senate is being asked to give its assent to five tax Bills which are part of the 1978-79 Budget proposals introduced into the Houses of Parliament just six weeks ago. The significant issue is that the Senate, in a matter of a few hours, is being asked to give mature consideration to these Bills. They were rushed through the House of Representatives in one day- in less than one sitting day in terms of hours- and we are expected to do the same here. I make those comments in the light of the constant repetition by Government senators that the Senate is a House of review and that it should be seen in that light. Of course, what has happened is that the Government parties' caucus room has been the House of review. Four changes have been made to the Budget because of its unpopularity and because of the obscene propositions of this Government which relate to the imposition of new taxes upon the Australian people. 
I find it somewhat amusing that  Senator Martin  should refer to the Government of which I was a member, as being involved in some economic adventurism when this Government, in fact, is involved in economic dishonesty. What may be said about that so-called adventurism is that we sought to borrow sums of money abroad which would have enabled the Australian Government to purchase considerable assets for the Australian people. It would have established equity in the very rich mineral resources of this country. All Australians would have profited as a result of such public investment in gilt-edged resources of this country. I think it is about time that honourable senators on the Government side stopped referring to the endeavours that were made as being dishonest and deceitful measures. In fact, they were measures which were designed to give greater tax relief to the Australian people. The profits from such investments would have flowed back to the benefit of every Australian. 
We are being asked to give consideration to these Bills but it is clear that the Government intends to ignore some of the very considered judgments that have been made in this debate today about the retrospectivity provisions in relation to lump sum payments for long service leave and annual leave. But what has been said by one honourable senator on the Government side and the reasoned case that has been put up by other honourable senators in this debate have absolutely no bearing upon the decisions that have been taken in the Government party room in respect of that issue. So, I think we ought to forget about the rhetoric that from time to time we have traded in this place to the effect that the Senate is, in fact, a House of review when we know, of course, that that is not the case at all. The purpose of the legislation is to raise additional revenue for the Government's spending program. 
As I understand taxation- if there is any equity in it whatsoever- its purpose should be to bring about some redistribution of wealth and to tax that section of the Australian community which is able to pay. Capacity to pay tax should be the cornerstone upon which all taxation measures should operate. They should take from the rich to distribute to the poor; to provide goods and services to those who are not able to obtain them because of their position in society. I find it somewhat ludicrous for honourable senators on the Government side to suggest that there is some equity in the five Bills that we are considering. Firstly, the Bills do not have regard to the capacity to pay. I think there has been ample debate to back up that assertion. Also, I think that in the debate we have been able to show that the Government's promises upon which it was elected have been disregarded not only in this Budget but also in previous Budgets. The strategy upon which the Government has based its three Budgets since it has come to office is already beginning to fail. 
The Government said that the economy was in such a state that we would have to develop the private sector and that to do this we would have to develop consumer demand.- Yet, this' very strategy is negated by the five Bills that we are considering because $5 60m will be taken out of the hands of the consuming public, particularly out of the hands of those to whom payasyouearn taxation applies, at a time when the Government states that private sector activity is part of its aim. One of the few options available to this Government is to try to develop ari increase in consumer demand. So what does it do? It brings in taxation that reduces that capacity, failing to recognise that these very measures reduce the capacity, by some 60 per cent, of consumer demand in the Australian community. 
Similarly, the Government's proposals have maintained the general decline in the Australian building and construction industry. Of course, the Government's proposals, particularly as they relate to deficit spending, have been designed to prune heavily public sector activity. So from where do we get growth if it is not from consumer demand and if it is not from public sector activity? There is only one other sector that can come into focus and that is the area of exports. They are the three principal areas in which we get growth. What do the facts show? They show that our export deficit for this last month is down by $3 70m. This is the second month in succession in which that fall has been recorded. 
If we are to take any cognisance of what the community believes about the- Government's strategy, we can look at a further- increase in bank savings deposits which are up by $ 160m in the past month. This means that there is now some $ 18,360m deposited in the savings banks. Of course, that means that there is no consumer confidence. This is reflected in the fact that we have a stagnation in retail sales despite the massive advertising spree which is taking place in the country to try to excite response from the consumers. So one of the cornerstones of the Government's strategy is shown to be not working. If we need any further evidence of that the recent survey carried out by the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research shows a drop of 12.2 points in consumer demand. 
The Government has been paranoid about deficits. We have heard remarks about Budget deficits repeated time and time again in this place. If we look at page 203 of Budget Paper 
No. 1 and compare the deficit in the three years in which Labor was in office- I am sure my arithmetic is not at fault; if it is I will be challenged by one of the honourable senators on the Government side- it shows that the total deficit in the three Labor Budgets between 1972 and 1975 was $6,445m. The deficit in the three Liberal Budgets in 1976, 1977 and 1978 was $8,886m, which is an increase of almost 30 per cent. This is shown in the Government's Budget documents. Of course, the latest figures show that the Budget deficit is $2.5 billion. It is estimated by those who have some understanding of the reading of the current quarterly returns which are available to honourable senators that, as a result of PA YE tax revenue failing to realise the estimates of this Government's Budget, the estimated deficit is likely to be exceeded by $500m by the end of this financial year. 
Yet honourable senators opposite suggest that taxation was higher three years ago than it is today and that the big spenders were the Labor Government. They should compare the Budget documents for this year with those for 1975-76. They should look at the rates of tax per head of population. The documents are freely available. Under the Howard Budget PA YE is up by $83 per head of population compared with what it was three years ago under the Hayden Budget of 1975-76. Sales tax per head of population is up by $2 1 and customs and excise duties per head of population are up by $133. I refer not to taxpayers but to the figures per head of population. For the average, or the large family, those increases represent a considerable impost upon their budgeting. 
I do not know whether one is entitled to come to the conclusion that Government members are illiterates- that they cannot or do not want to read- or that they simply want to mislead both the Senate and the Australian people about this Government's approach to economic matters, by attempting to concretise the very difficult economic conditions that we are experiencing in this country, by suggesting that it all started in December 1972, and that here we are, three years afterwards, still reeling from the results of Labor's administration. 
If honourable senators opposite really wish to play a review role I invite them to amend these propositions on the basis of the debate that has taken place about the taxing of long service leave and annual leave. In fact, I invite the Government to go to the polls on the issue. After all, it went to the polls a year early last year, for no reason. It had a majority of some magnitude. There was no attempt in this place to amend or obstruct government legislation. LiberalCountry Party senators tried to do that consistently between 1972 and 1975 and placed the Labor Government- the first Labor Government since 1949- under seige. They tried to make the Labor Party's attempt to govern almost impossible. Obviously Labor's opponents were engaged in a conspiracy to bring about its downfall. Yet, with all the favourable conditions during this Government's first two years of office it called an election a year early. 
Every senator opposite who has spoken in this debate tonight has claimed that this Budget enjoys the confidence of the Australian people. I invite them to test that claim by rejecting one of these Bills, as they rejected Bills in 1975. Then they will see whether what has happened in New South Wales and what will obviously happen in Ballarat in a couple of weeks' time represent accidents of history. It was tragic to hear poor  Mr Coleman  in New South Wales say, even on election night, that it was not the Federal Budget, or  Mr Fraser,  that was at fault. The more he allied himself to  Mr Fraser,  the more votes he lost. We had in New South Wales an incredible development: In seats such as Vaucluse and in seats north of the Harbour- some of which fell to the Labor Party before the night was over- where in years gone by the Labor Party had not even bothered to field a candidate, it will be necessary to count preferences to determine the outcome. 
If senators opposite are so confident about the Bills and so confident that the Australian people support their strategy I suggest that they look at the level of bank savings. That shows that there is no confidence in this Government and that people are putting their money in the banks because they are afraid of the future. They see the need to keep a little money in reserve. I suggest that the results of the New South Wales election have intimidated senators opposite. After all, those results have confirmed the result of the Werriwa by-election, which was fought on federal issues. I am not aware that any member of the State Parliamentary Labor Party was involved in that campaign. It was fought on federal issues by members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. That resulted in a 12.5 per cent swing to Labor. That result was subsequendy confirmed at the New South Wales election. It is easy for  Mr Fraser  to say that it was attributable to  Mr Wran:  It is nice and simple to say that he is a tremendous leader of great personal capacity and that that was the reason for the election result. If that is so, why do not senators opposite test that contention? Why do they not have the courage of their convictions and rhetoric and go to the polls now, as they did a year ago, to see whether their Budget strategy is acceptable to the Australian people and whether these tax Bills enjoy the support of the people? 
These Bills put 55 per cent of Australian taxpayers who are in the PA YE classification in the position that they will be paying more tax. One of the reasons, I suggest, the Government is in difficulties electorally is that it has broken every election promise on which it came to power in 1975 and 1977. The Government suggested that it would retain Medibank but has now dismembered Medibank. When these Bills become law the levy will be abolished, but in its place every consumer of medical services will be paying more for them. He will in fact be paying the difference between 40 per cent or 85 per cent of the cost of each medical visit. The Government claimed that it supported wage indexation, but time and time again it has gone before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to argue about the flow-on effects of wage indexation. It said that it was in favour of tax indexation but has shown that it cannot be relied upon to put into effect honestly its election promises. 
There has been some debate about the proposed increases in taxation on long service and annual leave. What is ignored is that one of the options before Cabinet was a proposal to tax superannuation as well. Fear of electoral reaction prompted the Government to introduce the increase in respect of long service and annual leave only. I do not want to reiterate what has been so ably put by those senators who addressed themselves to this problem today. This legislation will affect adversely casual workers who do not enjoy continuity of employment; those lower-paid workers in government instrumentalities who often are called upon to work on projects for a given period of time; and public servants, whether they be Commonwealth, State or local government, who because of particular demands- especially when there are changes in public administration as a result of elections and other factors- are called upon to work 52 weeks a year and cannot take their annual and long service leave. Without any warning, without any hint at all, this Government has moved in to take from these people who, in the great majority of cases, are the people least able to afford to pay an additional tax. These people find themselves having their emoluments which are provided for in their awards and often as rewards for long and faithful service brought into a new taxing area. 
What has the Government done in respect of this Budget? It has not only reneged on its promises with respect to pay-as-you-earn taxation; it has not only introduced new legislation for taxing holiday savings; it has also moved to tax post-graduate awards. I find it rather hypocritical of Government senators to suggest that somebody who is receiving under a post-graduate award $4,200 a year, which is only about $80 a week, can afford to pay any taxation for the privilege of higher education. It ill behoves members of parliament who receive salaries in excess of $500 a week to talk about a section of people being brought into a new sphere of taxation which is proposed in this legislation. 
Not only will they have to pay this form of taxation, but they will now fail to be covered by Medibank. If they do not have the wherewithal to join a health fund they will receive only 40 per cent of the money that may be expended on medical accounts in any one year. Of course we have seen the Government backing down on taxing the few lousy dollars that children earn as a result of their activities. We have seen the reintroduction of taxation for those people who are over 70 years of age and who have laboured all their lives to produce the wealth of this country. We have seen the introduction of taxes on money received by ex-servicemen. Of course we have seen the abolition of home loans deductibility. All of these measures show very clearly that this Government is not interested in an equitable taxing system. In a recent survey of wealth in Australia, carried out by Phil Raskall in 1977 he found that the top one per cent of population owns 22 per cent of personal wealth, the top five per cent owns 46 per cent of personal wealth and the top 10 per cent owns 60 per cent of personal wealth. In other words, in Australia today half of all Australians own less than eight per cent of the wealth. Yet if one examines the Budget documents and the basis upon which this legislation is being considered by the Parliament, one finds that it is that section of the community that owns so little of the wealth that is contributing the greatest proportion of taxes to the Government. 
No legislation that this Government has put before the Houses of Parliament has stated that 22 per cent, 46 per cent or 60 per cent of those people who own the personal wealth shall pay taxes commensurate with their stake in the wealth sectors of our country. Yet that should be the basis on which any reasonable and decent government brings forth taxation propositions. Of course whilst I give some credit to the attempts of the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  to close some of the tax loopholes and tax avoidance schemes, the facts are that a lot of the resources of this country are employed in an attempt to defraud all of Australia by the utilisation of tax avoidance schemes. 
One only has to pick up newspapers and journals that deal almost exclusively with financial matters to find advertisements every week advising companies and individuals who are in the top brackets. But people who are covered by the pay-as-you-earn system cannot avoid paying their tax. It was rather amusing to hear  Senator Messner  say that people have availed themselves of a lump sum payment for their holiday pay as a tax avoidance scheme. We all know that those people who have the wealth in this country, those people who are in the top echelons of business and investment, are the ones who put their affairs in the hands of lawyers and accountants in order to avoid their taxation responsibilities. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  endeavoured to show in the House of Representatives that a resource tax would bring in $ 1 50m, a tax on windfall gains of the oil companies could bring in $340m, a capital gains tax on those people who make such gains over and above $200,000 could raise $300m, a tax on the highest level of personal income could raise another $200m and that closing exery tax avoidance scheme, whether it be family trusts or otherwise, and taking punitive measures against those people who persist in this form of avoidance would bring in $100m. That would represent a total of $ 1,490m. What does this Government do? In these Bills it seeks not to tax the wealthy, not to tax those people who are able to pay, but in fact it sets about raising $ 1 , 1 40m by direct and indirect taxation. That of course means that it is taxing the lower and middle income groups, the groups that any government that is worth its salt should set about to help and assist rather than to hinder in the way in which taxation systems operate. 
One would hope that Government senators would really take the step that is available to them and, on the basis of the cases that have been placed before the Senate on this occasion, exercise some sense of responsibility and some sense of review and refuse to endorse the Government's propositions which are inequitable, unfair and unsatisfactory from the point of view of those people whom we all claim to represent. 
I present the following petition from 99 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question without notice is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the growing practice of prepared questions and answers of Government senators, which abuses the principle of questions without notice and I specifically draw the Minister's attention to the disgraceful incident on the last sitting day in the Senate last week involving the publication of a private and personal letter from  Dr Everingham  to the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Yunupingu,  and the same incident taking place almost simultaneously in the House of Representatives, all of which showed a degree of organisation. I ask the Minister: Does he genuinely believe that this was a spontaneous question without notice? Will he take steps to ensure that the proper principle of questions without notice is adhered to by Government senators? Will he give an assurance that this despicable breach of principle and confidentiality is not repeated in the Senate? 
I  present the following petition from 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Faser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And Your Petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the statements made by the Treasurer relating to tax evasion proposals or the closing off of loopholes. Will the Government agree that it is not enough to block specific tax averaging schemes while other schemes can be devised almost at will by artificial or contrived financial transactions? As section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act has been emasculated by judicial interpretations, will the Government consider an amendment to provide that when the commissioners or the courts are of the opinion that transactions, dealings or financial affairs of taxpayers are artificial or contrived, they- the commissioners or the courts- may determine the tax liability according to the commercial realities? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I would like to make some comments in respect of this very important decision that has been taken by the Government and which is contained in the document before the Senate. The Government has taken steps which largely nullify the effective work of the Prices Justification Tribunal which is one of the few mechanisms by which the Government's and community's interest is protected. Last Friday, Saturday and Sunday certain statements appeared in Australian newspapers which projected that the Government would take steps to water down the effectiveness of the Prices Justification Tribunal which was the subject of one of the important legislative acts of the previous Labor Government. Of course all this document does is confirm that that information did come from the Government, that it was leaked from the Government. One is therefore entitled to say that this Government is becoming more and more a leaky sort of government; a government that is not able to maintain any degree of propriety in respect of its decisionmaking processes. 
The contents of documents appear first in the newspapers before the Parliament has any chance to consider or debate them. This raises the unedifying spectacle that the Parliament is so often denied an effective chance to discuss decisions that the Government has made. Statements are made in the Parliament and then a very brief opportunity is afforded to members to speak to those statements. In a previous debate today in which  Senator Button  led for the Opposition we saw the degree to which  Senator Chipp  was given the opportunity to make a very short commentary. Similarly we are being given a limited opportunity to speak on this very important proposal. 
The statement is another example of dishonest government. We have been given only a few brief moments to study the document and comprehend what the Government is seeking to do. In one sentence the document seeks to say: 'We desire to continue the functions of the Prices Justification Tribunal'. However, on closer examination, of course, we find that the Government has taken steps to break down completely the effectiveness of the Tribunal. Therefore, I do not think it is exaggeration to say that it is a dishonest document to that degree. The effectiveness of the Tribunal has been very much undermined. 
An underhand attempt has been made to pay some recognition to the submissions that were made to the Government by the trade union movement through the Australian Council of Trade Unions and by the consumer organisations which represent a very large proportion of the Australian community. These major groups lobbied the Government heavily to ensure that the Tribunal should not in any way be weakened in its attempt to monitor prices and to play a surveillance role in respect of the activities of companies that come within its orbit from time to time. 
I remind honourable senators that when this matter was debated in the Houses of Parliament several years ago Government senators who were then in Opposition although supporting the legislation succeeded in convincing the Labor Government of the time that the provisions of the Tribunal should be applied only to those companies that could be described as being in the big corporation or big business area. Therefore, the great majority of companies did not come within the ambit of the Tribunal's jurisdiction. Even that compromise which was reached in 1973-74 has now been completely taken out of the legislation. The Government's decision means that the basic principles upon which the legislation was agreed to by the Parliament will be largely ineffective and inoperative. Of course, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said that we will retain the Tribunal. But what do we retain? We retain a shell. We retain a structure which now rests purely in the hands of the Minister, and the ministerial control, of course, will be subjected to the activities of the lobbyists who have grown much more effective in size and influence since this Government came to power. I concede that lobbyists have always had a role to play. We are all aware that we have many more lobbyists in Canberra these days. This means that resources and influences are at hand to press the Government of the day to do this or that. Such lobbyists take steps to impress upon the Government not to take certain actions which have been hitherto provided in the legislation and it avoids its responsibilities. 
Of course, in the three years that this Government has been in power we have seen a consistent attempt to meddle with the effectiveness of the Prices Justification Tribunal. We have seen successful efforts by the Government to dismantle in a piecemeal way the legislative provisions of the PJT, to defuse its effectiveness, and subsequently to weaken it. One of the most effective ways, apart from the legislative endeavours which have been considered by the Parliament and unfortunately passed, arises out of the Minister's statement. Obviously, this matter will come before the Parliament. The staff that hitherto had the responsibility to police the legislation and to put it into day to day effectiveness and functioning has been reduced from some 160 to 90. The 70 members who were necessary in the first establishment processes of the Tribunal have subsequently seen a reduction to such an extent that the tribunal has been rendered largely unable to carry out its functions properly and has been made ineffective. 
I suggest that we have a most unusual situation in that we have a Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. If ever there were a time for a divorcing of that responsibility, surely that is now. The mere statement of the Minister on this occasion shows that he can no" longer effectively represent either the affairs of business or of consumers. There is a conflict of interest here. Whilst I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the Minister in respect of his endeavours to look at problems facing consumers in Australia, and for that matter in the whole of the industrialised world, I point out that governments have seen fit at national and State levels to establish consumer organisations and agencies under their control. The fact is that the Minister is seeking to serve two masters. If there is any reason at all for the need for a consumer agency or consumer organisation- the Government is on record to suggest that there is a need for this in the modern world- how can the Government justify a Minister representing both consumer interests and business interests at the same time? The very purpose of consumer organisations, agencies and legislation surely is because business has failed properly to recognise the rights of such consumers. 
The statement by the Minister reflects a decision of the Government and it continues the philosophical attack that the Government has launched upon wage and salary earners and consumers generally in the three years that it has been in office. In view of the statement put down to the Senate one is entitled to ask the very logical question: With the weakening of the Prices Justification Tribunal who is to protect the interests of consumers who are largely disorganised and scattered throughout the country? They lack the effectiveness and financial resources properly to place their complaints, concerns and attitudes in any effective way to governments and to seek some rectification of the problems as they see them, whether they be at the price front or in relation to quality or standard of goods. But who is to represent them if the PJT has been largely put in a position where now it remains just a very small, ineffective organisation acting at the whim of the Minister of the day who allegedly represents the interests of consumers as well as of business. 
Of course, the justification that the Minister takes is that the Government has acted because it wants to restore business confidence and because it has become a costly operation. Who are the Minister and the Government trying to hoodwink in that respect? We are talking about costs involved in the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I am speaking about costs of a very small extent when compared with the total outlay of business. This is part of the big business and corporate sector of our economy. Only the big companies come within the ambit of the PJT. The Minister has the gall to suggest that costs involved in appearances before the Prices Justification Tribunal in preparation of cases to justify actions businesses seek to take, particularly on the price structure, play some mythicalaccording to the way we in the Opposition see it- response which seeks to destroy business confidence. 
How can we argue, for example, on the question of petrol prices? This Budget gives a windfall donation to the petrol companies, most of which are foreign owned and therefore their profits flow out of this country. There can be no justification for them not to go before the Prices Justification Tribunal and adequately present their point of view to the Tribunal. Is there to be no surveillance? I think that is inherent in the statement of the Minister. There will be no surveillance of petrol prices whatsoever. Are these companies to be given a free hand in the very Budget which gave them a golden handshake in excess of $300m? One can only say that the Government is taking a very dishonest approach because it is those companies which owe very little allegiance to this country and which are not concerned about economic problems or of the attitudes of the Australian consuming public, which should be required to justify their attempts to increase prices vastly in excess of the increases brought about by the disastrous inflationary effect of the Government's budgetary policies. 
It is no wonder that the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran  and  Mr Einfeld  have said: 'It is not on as far as we are concerned in New South Wales. Just because the Prices Justification Tribunal has said so we will not automatically raise petrol prices in our State'. In fact, the New South 
Wales Government has appointed a special research team to look into the problem of petrol prices which are rising astronomically and way beyond the justification brought about by the increase in excise duty. Of course, the Government says that the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal penalise companies. That is hard to appreciate when one looks at the profit levels of most of the companies that have been brought before the Prices Justification Tribunal in the last four years. 
I make some reference to the rather absurd statements that were made yesterday in the same area covered by this report. I refer to the speech of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  made at the Local Government Conference yesterday. These remarks are related to the statement made by the Minister because certain punitive proposals have to be taken against companies in respect of increases in wages and salaries. The absurd statement made by  Mr Anthony  yesterday at that Conference was that wage indexation was responsible for inflation. Wage indexation is a relatively recent event. It came into operation only some four years ago. When this Government fought the 1975 election it pledged to retain wage indexation. On the one hand it claims that since it came to office it has reduced inflation but on the other hand it states that wage indexation is being only partially followed by the Conciliation and Arbitration authorities. According to  Mr Anthony,  this is responsible for inflation. 
Again we have this contradictory and illogical position being expressed by government spokesmen. This statement which the Senate is now examining suggests that companies which are prepared to give consideration to claims that are legitimately and properly placed before them by the trade unions as representing the views of wage and salary earners can be penalised as a result of actions by the Minister of the day. Wage and salary earners, not only in their capacity as earners but also in their capacity as consumers, will be unprotected and left high and dry as a result of the inept attitude taken by the Government in this statement which will have the effect of strengthening the big business sector in our economy. This statement will obviously result in further legislation. It is small wonder that a degree of cynicism is developing within the Australian community about the role of government and the role of parliamentary democracy. That cynicism is surely borne out by the statement that the Minister seeks to put down as justification for the virtual abolition of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
Let us look at the effective work of the Tribunal, with all of its weaknesses, and accept the fact, as we in the Opposition have done, that when the amendments of last year were put into effect they seriously undermined the effectiveness of the Tribunal. Recently, in respect of the wool growers of this country, we saw an inquiry conducted by the Tribunal which, on the basis of all the evidence that was placed before it, came to certain conclusions designed to protect the wool growers from the avariciousness of the wool brokers. Two of the wool brokers began a process of defying the conclusions that had been reached. I can say only that they did so on the basis of an examination of all the evidence put before the Tribunal. These two wool brokers said that they would not accept the determination that had been made by the Tribunal. All honourable members know that finally one of them saw the error of that approach and agreed that there was a case to answer and that it would fall into line with the determinations of the PJT. The other, of course, thumbed his nose at the PJT, the Government and the wool growers. Today the Government wants to give that group of big business interests which refused to co-operate with a legitimate determination by the Tribunal more power so to do. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal was set up to examine and monitor the activities of groups of companies which, because of their concentrated power within the community, were able to set prices without any checks or balances, except through the intervention of the PJT, the Industries Assistance Commission or the Trade Practices Commission. That obligation is now to be by-passed and to be replaced by a piecemeal approach, an ad hoc organisation under the control of the Minister who, on the basis of this statement, as we interpret it, has the power to decide what the Tribunal shall do. He will make that decision and the powers of the Tribunal, which is employed by the Government under the legislative processes of this Parliament and which previously had the responsibility and obligation to carry out its duties to the best of its ability, with the resources available to it under legislation set by the decisions of this Parliament, will be taken away completely. One can come to the conclusion only that the PJT has a very limited role and for the Minister to say in one brief sentence that the Government has decided to retain the PJT is a misnomer and an act of dishonesty. Obviously the decision of the Government is a pay-off to the multinational companies. It is a pay-off to big business and the big corporations which have the resources and the capacity and which are obviously in a more superior position than anybody in the community to present a case from time to time to justify their activities and pricing arrangements. They have now been removed from any surveillance whatsoever, except at the direction of the Minister. Having regard to the lobbying influences in Canberra since this Government came to power we can say only that the surveillance will not be very effective at all. 
Finally, from time to time the Government calls for co-operation from the Australian community. It calls for co-operation from all groups- the trade unions, the consumers and the community at large- to try to assist in some better economic upturn and responses. Actions such as those now announced by the Government will destroy any possibility of community groups, whether they be trade unions or other bodies responding to such blandishments from the Government. We do not have to be economists to know that in many areas of our society competition is a farce, that it no longer exists and that the Government's tactic of trying to build business confidence as well as consumer confidence will obviously fail. In those circumstances the Government's calls to the community, such as the one in this statement, to assist it in its endeavours to get business confidence going will be at the expense of consumer confidence and community confidence in this Government. To all intents and purposes this statement has killed the Prices Justification Tribunal stone dead, but unfortunately the Government is not prepared to bury the corpse. It tries to maintain the farce that the PJT still has a role to play in some aspects of the Australian economy. That is not factual; it is a farce and the Opposition, the Australian Labor Party, will use every endeavour it can to try to bring about a mobilisation of public opinion in an attempt to get the Government to change its emphasis and to accept its responsibilities to provide guarantees of assistance to all sections of the Australian community, particularly the disadvantaged sections, which had some chance of accepting the deliberations of the PJT in the past but which will now see that even that very minor chance has been taken away by the decision of the Government to dismantle the most effective parts of the PJT. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  present the following petition from 279 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And Your Petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to a statement that was issued by the Minister on 29 September, which I read in part: 
Australia is conscientiously honouring its obligations under the UN Resolution concerning the travel of Rhodesians. This obligation is to refuse entry to Australia of anyone who has furthered or encouraged the illegal regime. 
Applications for entry to Australia from Rhodesia are processed by immigration officials in the Australian Embassy in Pretoria. In every case, applications are carefully screened for information which would indicate that the person concerned has encouraged or furthered the illegal regime. In all cases applicants are required to sign an affirmation that they have not furthered or encouraged the regime. 
I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that an officer ofthe Rhodesian Army, Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver, was recently in Australia and actively campaigned in support of the Smith regime? Did  Colonel Leaver  have discussions with the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen;  and, if so, why? Did the officer succeed also in having discussions with the racist of all racists in Australia, the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen?  Further, is the Minister aware that  Colonel Leaver  sought interviews on the television program  This Day Tonight  and other Australian Broadcasting Commission current affairs programs? If it is government policy - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that General Motors-Holden 's Ltd, which possesses 26 per cent of the Australian car market, has planned a massive $6m advertising spree in the hope of increasing the market share to 30 per cent? Is the Government aware that this advertising campaign involves five separate television commercials, intensive colour insertions in newspapers and direct mailing to four million households, all of which will cost every taxpayer about $ 1 .40? As this campaign is about three times larger than any previous advertising campaign by any commercial enterprise, and having regard to the Government's intention to close tax loopholes, is the Government able to say whether there is any contemplation for a ceiling limit on advertising as a taxation deduction? Is it not a fact that such excessive advertising costs are thus a financial burden on all taxpayers and ultimately lead governments to impose higher taxes on everyone? 
On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted: 
to maintain the present eligibility of members of the Defence Services for housing finance from the Defence Service Home Corporation; 
to permit Parliament to maintain adequate scrutiny of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Scheme; 
because it introduces a fee for consideration of the application for a loan for the first time, thus increasing the cost to the applicant; 
because it introduces a discriminatory preference system between those with eligibility based on war service; and 
because increased funds should be made available to restore the decline of 50 per cent, in real terms, over the last 3 years. 
As the Senate has been called on to approve legislation which has its genesis in the 1978 Budget, it has become increasingly clear that the biggest casualty in relation to public works and facilities is the housing industry. When we look at the ramifications of this Bill we can only say that the housing industry virtually is being butchered in the interest of cutbacks in public spending. It occurs to us that there is a need for the Government to reconsider its attitude and strategy in respect to the economic problems facing this country in the area of housing. 
The evidence shows that in the three Budgets that have been considered by the Parliament since this Government came to power at the end of 1 975, the allocation of Federal funds for housing and urban and regional development- this also relates to the accommodation problem- has been seriously cut back. For example, funds for growth centres have been reduced by 73 per cent in that three-year period. The Land Commission, which has the important task of making land available at reasonable prices not affected by speculation, had its allocation cut by 79 per cent. Funds for the protection of the environment have been cut by 40 per cent. Actual funds for housing in the public sector have been cut by 50 per cent. Over the same period the allocation of funds for defence service homes has declined by 62 per cent. It is a matter of regret that in the area of war service homes- defence service homes is the term now used- with only one exception, regressive steps have been taken. This legislation makes it more difficult for those who are eligible for the concession. I concede that it is a concession; it is some token of compensation to exservicemen who served in the World Wars and in subsequent wars. Steps are now being taken by this Government to decrease the area of eligibility and to impose new conditions upon those who are eligible. 
The Opposition notes that clause  3  of the Bill amends the principal Act so that de facto spouses of not less than three years standing are to be treated on the same basis as legal spouses for the purpose of the defence service homes scheme. Providing that there is a substantial degree of permanency in a de facto relationship, benefits are to be granted. The Bill asserts that it is essential that the de facto relationship has to be in an identifiable form for a continuous period of not less than three years. That will bring the Act into line with other Commonwealth legislation and the practice of most lending institutions. To that degree the Opposition supports the Government and applauds the inclusion of this amendment in the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill  1 978.  We have made no critical comment on this step in our amendment. 
In  1973  the Labor Government extended eligibility for war service loans to regular servicemen and women after a minimum of three years' service. That was an important extension of the scheme to personnel in the armed Services. We would have thought that this Government would have maintained that important principle. But, of course, the Bill alters that principle. For example, clause  4  amends the principal Act so that the period of peacetime service necessary to qualify for a defence service loan is increased from three years to six years. That halves the number of people who have been eligible since  1 973  except in cases where there is a premature termination of service due to death or illness. 
There is a further proviso which is regressive, that is that eligibility is subject to a commitment to render further full time service. A person who commenced full time service in the defence forces on or after  17  August  1977  will become eligible for a loan on completion of six years' full time service subject to the important qualification of a commitment to complete further full time service. Beyond doubling the qualifying period, the Government has ensured that personnel have to make a further commitment to full time service. Persons who commenced their full time service prior to  1 7  August  1 977  will continue to qualify on completion of three years' continuous full time service. So there is a step backward. This is why we consider that the Government ought to have another look at the Bill. 
Yet the Government has had the audacity to suggest in its material and speeches on this Bill that this measure 'is consistent with, and will strengthen, the prevailing conditions of service for the defence forces'. To me it is incomprehensible that the conditions of service will be strengthened by doubling the period of service required for eligibility for a loan under the defence service homes scheme and further requiring that a serviceman must make still another commitment to full time service. This measure will only worsen not strengthen conditions of service and discourage enlistment in the defence forces. Furthermore, the provision that defence personnel must make a commitment at the end of six years to render further full time service discriminates between the different branches of a service. I urge Government senators, who obviously will be supporting this Bill, to give us some reasons why there should be a policy of differentiation between the various arms of the defence forces. 
An officer who accepts a career appointment may resign at any time. He or she can serve for six years and one day and immediately become eligible for a defence service home loan. An enlisted person in the Army has to serve six years and sign on for another three years. In other words, he has to serve nine years in all to become eligible. Rather than removing discrimination this Government is discriminating between personnel. I think that this is a very bad principle to be incorporated in the legislation. Naval personnel are only required to serve in excess of six years to become eligible for consideration for a defence service loan. They do not have to make a further commitment. 
The next main amendment is embodied in clause  6  of the Bill. Proposed new section  27a  provides for the payment of fees by applicants, the amount of fee to be determined by the Defence Service Homes Corporation. Here again is another application of the principle which has been referred to in debate this week, that is that we are taking away from the Parliament the power to make determinations. Proposed new section  27b  allows the Corporation to determine the order in which advances are made to applicants in accordance with priorities determined on the basis of their division into different classes or where particular circumstances apply. For the first time since the introduction of the scheme  60  years ago, the Government is establishing the new principle of an application fee of  $75  having to be paid. The introduction of this fee, as we see it, is further evidence of the Government's contradictory approach to its general role of providing concessions for the Services and its contradictory approach to the defence service homes scheme in particular. 
On the one hand we have the Government saying that the purpose of the scheme in providing loans at concessional rates to defence service personnel is to encourage enlistment in the armed forces. In the next breath the Government says that the practice of other lending institutions in charging a fee on loan applications for the building of a home will be introduced. Such a measure puts the defence service homes scheme in line with the practice of other lending institutions. It seems to us to deny the whole purpose of the scheme, that is, to provide concessions for defence service personnel to encourage enlistment. The whole idea of providing concessions is negated if the Government then says that it wants to reduce costs and put the scheme on a basis which is similar to the practice of other lending institutions. The defence service homes scheme since its inception has been set apart from other lending institutions by its very nature which, in 1918 and all the subsequent years in which the legislation has been amended, was to provide concessions for war service or service in the armed forces. 
If one were to follow to its logical conclusion the idea of putting the defence service homes scheme on a par with other lending institutions one would have to abolish the concessional interest rate that is provided under the scheme. That would be one sure way of reducing the cost of the scheme and putting it on a similar basis to the practice of all other lending institutions, if that in fact is the motivation. The Government would surely recognise that that would negate the whole objective of the scheme. Similarly, the charging of fees for applications is a step towards negating the concessional objectives of the scheme. It seems that that is a totally contradictory position. In the House of Representatives another reason was put forward for the introduction of the application fee. I think it was suggested by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in his contribution to the debate on 22 August 1 978. He said: 
An analysis of the statistics would indicate that there is good reason for the introduction of an application fee. Last year some 2,000 applications were declined or refused. The vast majority of them were declined because the people concerned were not eligible to participate in the scheme. In a day when administration costs a considerable sum . . . it is appropriate that some restriction by way of an application fee should be placed on people who file applications for the sheer fun of it. 
I submit that if that is the case, that is, that different conditions will apply under which serving personnel shall qualify, the Government will make it even more likely that there will be confusion and an inability of persons to comprehend what the conditions and the concessions really mean. It seems to me that we will therefore have an even greater number of people making application. Obviously when 2,000 people make application under the scheme, they must genuinely believe that they are eligible for it. Many more people will be placed in that position. Now it will cost them $75 to find out that they will not be eligible because of the changes that are inherent in this legislation. It is a shameful position if people who perhaps do not completely understand the regulations and requirements are placed in this invidious position of paying a fee. 
Bear in mind that conveyancing and all other costs are already a substantial amount. A person who intends to purchase a home is called upon to pay so many costs. This legislation is just adding to those costs and is making it just that much more difficult for people. If the idea is to discourage people from making application, I do not think that should be acceptable by any reasonable government. It seems that it is a further example of the Fraser Government 's willingness to downgrade the effectiveness of concessional services provided to the Australian community or some sections of it. It is all part of this Government's obsessive concern in dealing with any matters of finance, that is, concern with budgetary deficits. Clause 6 proposes the insertion of proposed new section 27b in the principal Act under which the corporation may make and vary arrangements for determining the order in which advances are made to applicants, to divide the applicants into classes and set different minimum periods between the making of an application for a loan and the granting of a loan to different classes. Here again we see the application of another form of discrimination. 
This clause proposes the introduction of a preference system for those servicemen and women who have had war service and provides, for the first time in the history of the defence service homes scheme, specific authority for imposing a waiting period. It seems to me to be incongruous that we should be in a position where we will change the order of priority and that, because of the cutback in funds which are down $10-7m in this Budget, we are to have such a policy of discrimination. The Government has recognised the problems with proceeding with these provisions. In a Press release on 1 5 August, the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr 
Adermann) acknowledged that, in the absence of additional funds for the scheme, the only way in which preference for some people could be introduced would be to penalise others. That is a rather lousy and unsatisfactory explanation when obviously there are people who want to enjoy the concessions and benefits of the scheme. This is just another example of how the Australian people are learning through bitter experience the amount of trust that they can place on the words of this Government. 
There is no doubt that this legislation is discriminating against a section of people whom I thought this Government would be wanting to get on side for political and other reasons. It is quite amazing that the Government should be introducing legislation which in fact disadvantages ex-servicemen and women. When one considers that about one-third of a million exservicemen and women have taken advantage of this scheme as part compensation for their sacrifices that were made in the defence of this country, one would imagine that it would be one of the areas in which there would be no attempt made to introduce legislation which would reduce concessions to such people. Recognising that about $2,000m has been spent on this scheme, I think it ill behoves a government to continue on the path that it has taken. Whilst we would like to say a lot more about this matter and whilst many more members of my Party would have liked to debate this matter at greater length, we feel that the constraints that always exist towards the end of a parliamentary session are such that we can just record our opposition, dismay and criticism of what is proposed in the legislation. 
We trust that even if honourable senators on the Government side cannot see their way clear to support this amendment, they might very seriously take up in their party room the points of criticism, which I think are validly made, to ensure that in future legislation some of the proposals contained in this legislation which are repugnant and unacceptable are overcome and that ultimately we will reintroduce into the legislation the provisions upon which the scheme has been substantially funded and operated for the last 60 years. Nevertheless, in order to test the feeling of the Senate, it is my pleasure to move the amendment and seek the consideration of the Senate of the principles enunciated. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Is the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Gietzelt  seconded? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I am talking about Mary Kathleen. The honourable senator ought to check his facts. The McMahon Government entered into a number of agreements which the subsequent government, of which I was a supporter, was forced to accept. We on this side of the House gave due warning to those who want to develop uranium mining in the Northern Territory. If, in fact, there has not been consultation, if this Government has misjudged the views of the Australian people and if it has taken steps which do not allow a proper understanding by the Aboriginal communities of what is taking place in the Northern Territory in respect of the Ranger agreement, we will reserve our rights as a future government not to honour those obligations. We were forced to honour a number of agreements which the McMahon Government entered into knowing full well that it was going to be thrown out of office in 1972. That is precisely the fate that will befall this government in 1980. Honourable senators opposite should make no mistake about that. 
We are concerned not only whether the spirit and the intent of the law have been carried out but also whether the Aborigines were given every opportunity to consider all the implications. I find it rather strange that we should be regarding this document as the end of the situation. For example, it has been suggested in the document that there was no intimidation. I can well recall many Government spokesmen suggesting that if it were not signed there would be recourse to the arbitration provisions of the Act. If that is not intimidation, I do not know what the word is. The fact is that the Court and the Act require that there be adequate, proper and full consultation with the land owners. The evidence shows that only 10 per cent of the land owners were properly advised about the meeting, properly advised about the terms of the agreement and properly consulted about the decision that was made in their names. It ill behoves the Minister in the other place who presented the report- I appreciate that  Senator Guilfoyle  is only presenting the report in this place on his behalf- to quote only one portion of the second Ranger report and ignore the most important conclusion of all in relation to Aborigines. The report states: 
The arrival of large numbers of white people in the Region will potentially be very damaging to the welfare and interests of the Aboriginal people there. 
The report is referring to Ranger- 
All the expert evidence on this matter was to the effect that, despite sometimes sincere and dedicated effort on the part  of all  concerned to avoid such results, the rapid development of a European community within, or adjacent to, an Aboriginal traditional society has in the past always caused the breakdown of the traditional culture and the generation of intense social and psychological stresses within the Aboriginals. There is no evidence which convincingly demonstrates that the result in the Region will be different . . . 
The outcome in the Region will depend very much on a number of factors . . . Important among those will be the need to take firm measures to ensure that Aboriginal people can remain sufficiently isolated and sufficiently able to live according to their own lifestyle on their own land, without intrusion or interference from others. 
Is it seriously suggested that that conclusion, upon which many other conclusions were reached in the Ranger Inquiry, was conveyed to the Aboriginal communities that made this decision? When questions were asked today in this place by some of my colleagues about the accuracy of reports that the Aborigines were not properly consulted, we did not get very satisfactory answers. Certainly we are being asked to trust this Government, which has proved itself to be untrustworthy in respect of a whole variety of issues. We are being asked to agree to a statement and a report which have been put before us by a government which has not carried out the spirit and letter of the law, which sends to the Northern Territory a Minister in whose presence signatures are placed on a document which this Government claims is an historic document. 
I do not believe that we should pass up the opportunity to debate this question properly. I agree that to try to do so today in the absence of confirmation of telegrams and statements which are appearing in newspapers would not do justice to an adequate debate. The ink is not yet dry on the document and we are not able yet to give a considered judgment. It is the duty of the Opposition to oppose and the duty of the Government to consider whether the criticisms we make are valid. Certainly on the prima facie evidence that is available to us at the moment, there would be reason for us to suggest to the Government that there is considerable doubt whether the intention of the Act, the intention of the environmental impact statement and the intention of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry have been properly put into effect. There is no evidence in the report that there has been adequate consideration of those aspects. 
I am sure that there would not be very many honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber- certainly not many honourable senators on my side of the chamber- who would not assert that the Aborigines will be affected by the development of uranium mining, particularly in the Ranger area. If I may be deflected in my remarks for a moment, I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  will be surprised to find that this agreement also embraces his famous Kakadu National Park. That is information which I have not read previously. The ramifications of the agreement are quite considerable. I am sure that all honourable senators must concede that there are not too many people in the black communities in the Northern Territory who would understand this agreement. All we suggest is that it is part of our responsibility and part of our obligation, having regard to what has been the attitude of white communities towards the Aboriginal people for the two centuries that we have been in occupation of the continent of Australia, to make sure that the mistakes that were made in Sydney, Melbourne and Tasmania are not repeated in the Northern Territory. 
We should look at the sorry role of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in respect of Aurukun and Mornington Island when he passed up an opportunity to represent properly the aspirations and hopes of the people in that area. We just do not have any faith in the Minister's very fine honeyed words that he has put in this report. Therefore, we would like an opportunity in the very near future to debate the report. We do not want it passed into limbo as so often happens in this place. Reports do not come back onto the business paper for adequate public debate and an opportunity to follow through the criticisms that are coming to us, criticisms which I am sure some honourable senators opposite would want to give more mature consideration. In the light of those facts, I seek leave to continue my remarks in the hope that there will be a more adequate - 
On any Paper being laid before the Senate, it shall be in order to move- (1 ) That it be read, and, if necessary, a day appointed for its consideration; (2 ) That it be printed. 
I believe that that Standing Order is applicable to the current circumstances and I - 
That the resumption of the debate be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The PRES1 DENT- Not necessarily. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Government's direction to the Prices Justification Tribunal to inquire into the food industry in 
Australia and ask: What is the reason for the inquiry? Is it that the processed food industry is now substantially foreign owned and that there is evidence of a marked degree of market concentration? Is it that the Government is concerned about the degree of advertising which affects the cost of food items? Is it that the Government is concerned about the impact of such food price increases on the consumer price index? 
It ill behoves  Senator Carrick  as Leader of the Government in the Senate to attack  Senator Walsh  and the motivation of the Australian Labor Party in moving this matter of public importance and to say that in so doing  Senator Walsh's  contribution was rhetorical. Not only could one describe  Senator Carrick  's contribution as rhetorical but it was also 10 minutes over time. In fact he did precious little to create a better awareness within the community about the implications of the new financing bank for rural producers. In fact he might well adopt the title of 'Leader of the rhetorical party'. There is no doubt that the question of finance for the rural sector has worried that sector of our economy for many years. Rural producers have been concerned for generations about the inadequacies in the provision of rural finance and in particular the lack of long term lending facilities. I find it rather strange that the Leader of the Government in the Senate in the last weeks before the end of this session should suggest that the 
Government was acting in the interests of the rural community, bearing in mind the tremendous problems that faced the rural community through the Depression and particularly in the post war years and the fact that it has moved from a labour intensive industry. 
When the Liberal Party Government took office in 1949 about 20 per cent of our work force was involved in agriculture. That figure has now dropped to 6 per cent. Of course in moving from a labour intensive industry to a capital intensive industry there has been a great need for the rural community to be able to use finance in that process of change. When one looks at the record of the conservative governments in that time, that is, in the 33 years since the end of World War II, 27 of those years have been years in which the conservative parties have ruled this country; 27 years in which the Leader of the Country Party has been the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Yet now in 1978 we are told about the failures of a short period in which Labor was in office in 1972-75 and the great virtues of the Liberal Party in bringing forward this legislation. It is rather ironical that honourable senators on the Government side did not see that they failed the rural sector in those years in which we suffered drought and other difficulties and in which the sector moved into a new era, that is, one of capital investment. 
The concern that has been expressed about this change has been reflected in a number of official reports that have been published over the years. For example, the 1971 Bureau of Agricultural Economics report which dealt with debt reconstruction and farm adjustment stated: 
There is a need for a long term credit facility for agriculture because access to capital will become an increasing problem to the predominantly unincorporated enterprise type of farm business, and particularly because it is necessary to facilitate the development of farm enterprise. 
Then of course the very important report, the 1974 Green Paper entitled  Rural Policy in Australia,  which was brought down by the Labor Government stated: 
There has been a gap in the long term credit facilities available to rural producers . . . 
Obviously the banking institutions, the pastoral houses and the other lending authorities have failed in this respect; otherwise those comments would not have been made, neither would there have been the need for the Government to move as it has suggested that it has done properly in this respect. Further the Green Paper stated: 
Access to capital on suitable terms and conditions -  . . may become an increasing problem for the predominant unincorporated enterprise type of farm business where the farm has in practice largely to be repurchased in each generation; farm liquidity is likely to come under pressure again from time to time- leading to an increased demand for longer term loans. Without some type of government participation, it is unlikely that the supply of longer term rural credit would be adequate. 
The nature of Australian agriculture and in particular the length of the production cycle, the influence of production variability, the length of time before cash flows are generated from new development and the low turnover in relation to capital employed demands that longer term financial arrangements ought to be provided than for other industries. Within the rural sector there is a considerable demand. I suggest that that demand has not been realised by this Government's decision. There is considerable demand for finance with terms exceeding 15 years for land purchase, developmental purposes, reconstruction of short term debt of producers outside the scope of the rural reconstruction authorities and the reconstruction of short term emergency finance debt that could not be cleared within a reasonable period. We all know of the deficiencies that exist in respect of rural reconstruction schemes, particularly the limitations that are placed upon them in the Commonwealth and State areas.  Senator Carrick  referred to the policy statements of the Liberal Party in the last two election campaigns. Let us look at them. In 1975 and 1977 those statements were couched in terms that were very appealing to the rural community. They were obviously baits to get support from that community. Prior to the 1975 Federal election the Liberal and National Country parties' joint primary industry policy statement outlined that a Federal government would ensure:   . . the establishment of a national rural bank in conjunction with trading banks and other lenders in the rural sector to provide rural credit to cover investment in land. The bank will also finance machinery, plant, stock and farm equipment, land for farm development projects for the expansion of existing projects and refinance existing short term rural debts. 
In the supplementary statement to the 1977 policy statement of the Liberal Party it was mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Rural Bank 
. will provide, in conjunction with the banks and other lenders, long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years- 
This is the most important point which  Senator 
Carrick ignores completely--  at concessional rates of interest. 
Of course the Minister made no mention of that point. We are aware of the fact that refinancing of rural debts is a significant problem because about 75 per cent of all such debts can be put into the category of being short term debts. If there is to be a refinancing of them it must be, as the Prime Minister suggested in his policy speech, at concessional rates of interest. That is not what is envisaged in the Government's propositions. Unfortunately those people who believe that statement have been well and truly fooled. The Prime Minister made certain promises in order to gain votes; with a cynical disregard he has dishonoured those promises; just as he promised that he would maintain Medibank- we know what has happened to that institution; just as he promised that he would support wage indexation- we know what he has done; just as he promised that he would reduce interest rates by 2 per cent- there are only eight weeks left for him to fulfil that promise because he said that he would do it during 1978. He promised tax cuts- we know that in this Budget tax has been increased; he promised in the last election campaign that unemployment would fall steadily during 1977- we all know that the figures that will come out this Friday will show that that promise has not only not been fulfilled but that unemployment will increase. The performance of this Government with regard to the Primary Industry Bank is typical of a long list of broken promises. I suggest that when those promises were made there was no intention by this Government of honouring them. 
The Fraser Government was committed to provision of long term credit at concessional rates of interest. That is what is promised and that is what it has not delivered. The interest rates for loans from the Primary Industry Bank which were announced in a joint statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  after a long period of speculation- it was made in 1975 so it has taken three years to get the actual institution and process into operation- on 15 October could be and have been described in many ways, but they could hardly be described as concessional. I do not think that even  Senator Carrick  has the gall to suggest that. According to the statement, loans made by the banks and refinanced by the Primary Industry Bank were to carry interest rates to the end borrowers of 10.5 per cent per annum for loans less than $100,000 and 12.5 per cent for loans of $100,000 or above.  Senator Carrick  did not indicate that that is any different from any of the other loans that are available for investment or development purposes, whether they be in the rural or secondary sector. 
The main interest rate of 10.5 per cent was, at the time it was announced, no better than the bank overdraft rate. It was the same as the commercial overdraft rate and it was only marginally lower than the 1 1 per cent or 1 1  lh  per cent maximum rate set at that time by the lending authorities for fixed, medium and long term loans. It is true that last night it was announced that the interest rates of the Primary Industry bank are to be 10 per cent per annum for loans less than $100,000 and 12 per cent for loans of $100,000 or above. But this is subsequent to and follows the decision made by the trading banks last week to reduce their overdraft rates generally throughout the whole of the community. So the loans offered through the Primary Industry Bank are at interest rates no better than the normal bank overdraft rate and follow the norm of falling interest rates generally. 
Government senators might suggest, as  Mr Sinclair  has suggested, that it is the term of the loan that is important and not the interest ratethat is not what was said by the Government when it went to the polls in 1975 and 1977- in regard to reducing the annual repayment and loan service burden of borrowing. I suggest that the Government knew that in 1977. That was clearly set out in the 1971 report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on debt reconstruction and farm adjustment and it was clearly set out in the 1974 Green Paper entitled 'Rural Policy in Australia'. Yet in the face of that advice the Fraser Government deliberately suggested that it would provide long term loans at concessional interest rates. This can be seen as nothing more than a grossly misleading approach and some might even say a deliberate falsehood. No wonder there is cynicism in the Australian community about parliamentary promises and parliamentary democracy. 
The Fraser Government's actions over the last week have clearly shown that it has no intention of establishing concessional interest rates for the rural sector. In fact, it is the trading banks which set interest rates for the Primary Industry Bank. They set their overdraft rates and the Primary Industry Bank follows. Little wonder that  Mr Barry  Cassell, the Executive Director of the Cattlemens Union of Australia, has described the interest rates for primary industry as a sellout. Little wonder that the National  President  of that organisation has said that all farmers will be disappointed with the Bank. Little wonder that all primary industry organisations have roundly condemned the interest rate structure of the Primary Industry Bank. Little wonder that the Fraser Government is rapidly losing credibility in all sections of the Australian community. I make no bones about that. One has only to read the Press statements and Press articles on this subject. One Press article reported that  Mr Don 
Eckersley, the  President  of the Australian Farmers Federation, said that the Bank was nothing more than a joke. The Australian Farmers Federation issued the following Press statement: 
At their meeting in Sydney this week the AFF Executive described the new Primary Industry Bank as completely unacceptable to rural industry in its present form. 
Another Press article reported that  Mr Cassell  said that farmers would treat the news of the interest rates with dismay. The same article reported that  Mr James,  the  president  of the Stock Owners Association of South Australia, said that producers would be extremely disappointed with the lending rates, particularly in view of the promises about concessional interest rates that were made over the years. The Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation has expressed extreme disappointment with the new Primary Industry Bank.  Mr O'Brien,  the  President  of the Federation, has stated that primary producers have not received the type of banking institution suggested in 1975. One can go on and on in respect of the way in which the rural sector is viewing this cynical misuse of words and promises by this Government. The Fraser Government has deceived the farmers by making a dishonest election promise. In effect it promised to farmers cheap, long term loans, but it has not provided anything of the sort. 
Another feature of the Bank which must be questioned is the method of funding it.  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Howard  proudly announced in a joint Press release that the Commonwealth Government had agreed to place Commonwealth funds with the Bank. What has it done? It has decided to use the income equalisation deposits as the base amount for the funding of this Bank. We all know that this means that the funds of the primary producers themselves are being used as the base for the operations of this Bank. There is no suggestion that Commonwealth funds will be placed at the disposal of this Bank. The Government is so obsessed with Budget deficits that it is using this stratagem to provide the Bank with a small amount of money to overcome the tremendous re-financing problems that beset the rural sector. The IEDs have been given to the Bank at 5 per cent interest. So the opportunity existed for a concessional rate of interest to be applied. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, relates not only to that Minister's Department but, I am afraid, also to the Minister who represents the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is the Minister aware of the report tabled in the New South Wales Parliament which indicates that the New South Wales Department of Consumer Affairs dealt with 300,000 consumer inquiries and complaints in 1977, of which 20,000 lodged formal complaints, representing an increase of 42 per cent on the previous year? Is the Minister aware that as a result of the State Government's inquiries a number of goods were banned from the marketplace in New South Wales? Can the Minister say what procedures are followed in the Australian Capital Territory to ensure that consumers are protected from the sale of such goods, many of which are retailed in Canberra as specials to Canberra citizens despite their classification by competent authorities as dangerous, unsuitable and of low standard? When can we get some uniformity on such matters to protect consumers wherever they live in Australia? 
The Senate is being asked to give consideration to disallowing an ordinance and to do it on a free vote. In the seven years that I have been here this is the third occasion on which the Senate has exercised a conscience vote on an important issue. The first important issue that comes to my mind is capital punishment. I think it is relevant that we should make some reference to the debate on capital punishment having regard to the fact that  Senator Harradine  tried to draw an analogy between the vote on that matter and the way in which the Senate is exercising its obligations and responsibilities in relation to this ordinance. 
I might say that, with the exception of the last  speaker  who delivered a rather tedious speech which I am sure most of us could not comprehend, the debate in the Senate today on this important question has probably brought forth some of the most important contributions that we have had on this subject. I think it is significant that we have seen the presentation of argument that has not been expressed in such a broad way in the past. Whatever the result of the vote tonight there is no doubt that those who have decided to support  Senator Ryan  have won the debate because they have presented their argument in a coherent, cogent and rational manner. The few honourable senators who have suggested they will oppose  Senator Ryan's  motion have made very brief contributions. They have not produced any substantial argument against those that were produced by speakers from the Government and the Opposition side. Of course, we are dealing with this matter on a non-party basis. 
Those of us who took an enlightened view in 1971 on capital punishment were criticised. I remind  Senator Harradine  that that legislation concerned the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. We made a decision to abolish capital punishment in the territories under our control. I do not see the relevance of that decision to the recommendations made by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly in respect of the termination of pregnancy. The Parliament in its wisdom established the Assembly in 1974 and gave to that body certain advisory rights in the belief that it would act in that capacity and be responsible to the Minister of the day. Therefore it is wrong to say that we should adopt the same attitude in respect of abortion as we adopted in respect of capital punishment. 
Those of us who took the position that a breakdown in marital conditions should be dealt with in an enlightened way were criticised when the Parliament discussed the family law legislation. Again we voted on a non-party basis. One would hope that the same mature consideration would be given to this debate as was given to the debates on capital punishment and family law. Like most honourable senators I have been besieged with largely hysterical letters in which terms such as mass murder and infanticide are used. The letters come from a variety of sources. The indications are that the letters have been organised and sent on a national basis by people who do not understand the responsibilities of the Senate. I will refer only to a small number of these letters at this point in the debate. Clearly pro forma letters have been circulated throughout Australia. The letters all appear in identical terms. For instance, some of the letters I have received state: 
I am strongly opposed to abortion. Every abortion kills a baby before birth. I urge you to vote against  Senator Ryan's  motion to disallow the ordinance banning abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. The vote is the concern of all Australians. So I ask you to vote against the motion. 
Letters have come to me from such places as Coolac, Lake Cargelligo, Mittagong, Greenwich, Balgownie, Oakdale and many other places outside of the Australian Capital Territory. What strikes me is the similarity of those letters and the fact that in a majority of cases they come from New South Wales where Judge Levine made a decision in one of the lower courts that has meant that from 1971 the responsibility for terminating a pregnancy has rested entirely on the judgment of a single doctor. That has been the practice in New South Wales for the last seven years. 
My purpose in refering to the letters is to draw attention to the fact that people who are expressing these sorts of sentiments come from a State in which a legal abortion can" take place on the decision of a single doctor. I do not take the view that those who disagree with what I say should not have the right to express their' viewpoint, but I yield to no one in refusing to believe that those people who have taken such an emotional stand on this issue are the only ones who are concerned about human life. In fact the whole motivation of all those who have spoken in support of  Senator Ryan's  proposals has been based on a concern for human life. Yet one could imagine on the basis of the great number of letters which have been sent to senators that only one group has this concern. I would estimate that something in excess of 100,000 letters have been sent to 64 senators in the last several weeks. All this has done has been to give the Australian Postal Commission something like $2m in profits. This will help us to reduce our deficit but it will do very little to allow us to approach this question free from the emotion that we have seen expressed publicly outside the Senate and with one or two exceptions during debate in the Senate today. Of course, I accept that these points of view are coming from people who are entitled to express an opinion. These people have been organised to present that point of view. 
I respect their obligation to represent that viewpoint to each and every one of us, but it comes from people who largely accept the principle of representative democracy rather than participatory democracy which is the cause with which I would prefer to be associated. It is the cause which I would rather see the community follow. I would like to see citizens participate in decision making in this way. Having said that I support the general principles of representative democracy I think I am entitled to say that the Senate is entitled to consider the views expressed by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. The writers of these letters have been uninformed or misinformed and what they have said does not really have much bearing on the issue. To read the letters one would imagine that the effect of  Senator Ryan's  motion would be to terminate the pregnancies of all Australian women forever. The truth, of course, is close to the opposite. There is no spontaneity in the protest movement. In fact, there has been overkill. 
Some time back I was involved in a court action in which the case was lost because of an overkill situation. We know what happened in respect of  President  Nixon and Watergate which was an overkill situation. What we have witnessed in recent times is an attempt to impose on the Senate and on honourable senators a point of view which, I submit, does not really represent more than a small organised minority viewpoint, as much as I accept the right of that minority viewpoint to be expressed. 
What does  Senator Ryan's  proposal seek to do? First of all, it is limited to the. Australian Capital Territory. This is not a matter that has implications beyond the Australian Capital Territory. Secondly, it has the support of a majority of the people and specifically, I suggest, of the women of the Australian Capital Territory and of the elected representatives. Thirdly, and perhaps the most important of all, it is an action which, if supported, will give women even greater freedom for it is an extension of women 's rights to have control over their own bodies. It is the right to legally solve an issue that faces most women. 
I think that the Legislative Assembly has acted very properly and very democratically to try to come to that decision. I think that  Senator Ryan  has acted very properly in placing this matter before the Senate for its consideration. I certainly join with  Senator Puplick  in saying how much I regret, as I am sure the Senate regrets, the campaign of vilification, criticism and intense pressure that has been the fate of  Senator Ryan  in these recent weeks. I believe that she has shown herself to be a courageous person who has withstood an unprecedented campaign, a campaign which can only be described as lacking in principle, lacking in understanding and lacking in information. I think that  Senator Ryan  is to be commended for taking a stand, knowing full well that there are organised groups in the community that would seek to belie her motivation and would seek to denigrate her both personally and politically. That is what the letters, in their great quantities, right throughout Australia have said. 

 Senator Ryan has shown that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has contradicted his undertaking to the Legislative Assembly that this matter would be dealt with according to the Assembly's wishes. I cannot accept the rather specious argument put forward by  Senator Harradine  that there is some ambiguity in what the Minister's obligations were and what the Minister said. I have heard members of the Minister's own Party draw attention to the fact that they are dissatisfied with the role of the Executive and that the responsibility therefore rests with the Senate, if it so desires, to set aside the decision of the Executive and to put into effect the expressed wish of the Legislative Assembly. 
The Minister, when he made those statements, might not have taken such an undertaking very seriously, but the Legislative Assembly did and certainly many members of the community did. What did the Assembly do? In March 1977 it set up a committee of competent people. That committee was not a secret or a closed group. There was no question of arbitrariness or of dogmatism on the part of the committee. The committee advertised publicly and called for the views of concerned people in the Australian Capital Territory. It was a committee established and working as part of the democratic process in the Australian Capital Territory. It received submissions from no less than 1 1 9 individuals and organisations representing both a wide range of opinion of many thousands of people in the Australian Capital Territory and an expert range of opinion. Sixty per cent of the opinions came from women- and that in itself, I think, is significant. They came from women's organisations, doctors, nurses, lawyers, social workers and, of course, mothers. Others were from concerned social groups such as churches and from a whole range of other groups. Needless to say, the Right to Life Association groups in the Australian Capital Territory, and even outside it, were quite vocal and participated in this process in a democratic way, putting their point of view, and these were heard by the committee. The written submissions were followed by a call for witnesses and the committee heard 48 witnesses. Again there were a wide range of people and organisations of all viewpoints. Much expert and personal testimony was heard and considered by the committee. Part of this testimony included two surveys of public opinion in the Australian Capital Territory on the issue of termination of pregnancies. The results of these surveys are interesting. I reject the view put forward by  Senator Archer  that we ought not to take too much notice of surveys. The fact is that we know that surveys have an uncanny knack of being able to show very clearly what public opinion is from time to time. One example is the recent survey conducted in New South Wales in respect of Premier Wran prior to the New South Wales State election. The results of that election reflected exactly the results of that survey. What did the survey conducted in May 1977 show? Australian Nationwide Opinion Polls conducted what it referred to as: 
A strictly controlled probability sample of the voters resident in the two ACT Federal electorates of Canberra and Fraser . . . designed to give all voters in the ACT an equal and known chance of representation in the survey. 
Comparative reference was made to a similar survey conducted nearly two years earlier in November 1 975. I want to look at both surveys and draw comparisons. In November 1975, in response to the question 'Do you approve of easier abortion laws?'- and I do not think that that question could be misconstrued or in any way considered to be ambiguous as it is a fairly simple question- 54 per cent of the people said Yes'. In May 1977, some 18 months later, this figure had risen to 59 per cent. ANOP noted this increase in positive attitudes as statistically significant considering the space of time. Looking more closely at the 59 per cent in favour, one sees that 66 per cent- a clear two-thirds of the people under 25 years of age and the people most directly affected- were in favour while 60 per cent of the 25 to 45-year-olds and 54 per cent of the over 45-year-olds were in favour. 
The reasons given for favouring easier abortion laws are significant too. Of those in favour, 55 per cent saw such laws as giving women 'freedom to decide one's self or as 'enhancing women's personal choice'. A further 1 1 per cent saw them as necessary for 'unmarried mothers and young girls' in particular. A further 7 per cent said that they supported easier abortion laws to 'stop dangerous back street abortions'. These responses were to a completely open-ended question and showed the concern of the majority of people in the Australian Capital Territory to give women greater freedom and control over their own lives and bodies and futures- a right which they should exercise themselves and which the law should protect and guarantee. 
The survey further showed that a massive 70 per cent of the Territory people surveyed were in favour of 'clinics where doctors carried out abortions under suitable medical conditions'. Only 24 per cent, that is, less than one-quarter, of people in the Australian Capital Territory disagreed that such clinics should exist in Canberra. Even 27 per cent of those people thought that if such clinics were attached to public hospitals, Canberra should have such clinics. So here is a clear and reasonable indication of the opinion of people in the Australian Capital Territory- the people who are, after all, directly affected and whose views in a democracy should not only be respected but should be paramount. A second survey, predominantly of adult women, was carried out in 5 1 Canberra suburbs and responses were obtained from 713 people. Of these, 66.61 per cent believed that 'action should be taken to liberalise the provision of abortion services in Australian Capital Territory hospitals' and 57 per cent believed that the existing arrangements in the Territory were unsatisfactory. All of this indicates that there is some evidence that within the Australian Capital Territory there is majority support for liberalising abortion. 
If  Senator Harradine  had listened, he would know that they were surveys by ANOP. We have had a number of tenets presented to us in this debate.  Senator Evans  has shown us what the options are. He has indicated that the amendment he has moved to  Senator Ryan  's motion would have the effect of overcoming any of the difficulties that have been suggested by  Senator Harradine.  Even if by some mischance that did not happen, clearly the contingent notice of motion of  Senator Rae  would overcome any of the objections that  Senator Harradine  has put forward. 
I am not suggesting that the matter which the Senate is debating is not an important one. I am not suggesting that it is one in relation to which honourable senators do not have to examine their own consciences to understand the dissenting points of view. I respect the fact that there is a considerable difference of opinion among honourable senators from both the Government parties and the Labor Party. But, having passed propositions giving certain obligations and responsibilities to the Legislative Assembly, we have to decide whether that body has carried out those obligations and responsibilities by setting up a committee of inquiry and inviting submissions. That procedure is no different from that adopted by the Senate when from time to time it conducts inquiries. The Legislative Assembly took that evidence and considered it. It was assisted also by the surveys, which show that there is considerable public opinion that the right of women to terminate a pregnancy at a government clinic should be legally established. That being so, it ill-becomes either the Senate or the government of the day to take a shortsighted view and set aside the initiative and the decision taken by the Legislative Assembly. To do so would be to destroy the value of the democratic process that we have seen followed by the Assembly. 
The Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly carried out its obligations to the people of Canberra and to the Parliament. Unfortunately, when the Federal Minister intervened he acted contrary to the way in which he was asked to act. I think it is to the credit of those honourable senators who have spoken in support of  Senator Ryan's  motion and particularly to the credit of  Senator Ryan  that they should have drawn to the attention of the Senate the implications of the Minister's action in setting aside very sound recommendations that were made by the Legislative Assembly. If  Senator Ryan  had not taken the opportunity to give notice of disallowance of the Ordinance in order to have this matter debated, the Legislative Assembly's decision would not have been given mature consideration and the people of the Australian Capital Territory would not have had a chance to express through their elected representatives the belief that there should be established such principles and such ordinances that would bring the Australian Capital Territory into line with the way in which most Australian States are operating. 
Some honourable senators have suggested that approximately 200,000 pregnancies are terminated each year in Australia. That is an alarming number, if in fact that estimate is correct. I do not know whether it is correct.  Senator Walters  shakes her head. When another honourable senator mentioned that figure there was no reaction at that time which indicated to me that it was a false or exaggerated statement.  Senator Walters  said that the figure was approximately 50,000 or 60,000, as I recollect her contribution. Whatever the number is, each one represents a personal decision that has had to be made by individual women throughout the Commonwealth. It matters not whether the number is 5,000, 50,000 or 200,000; each one represents a decision that has had to be made by women. As the law stands in this country at the present time, such decisions have been made after consultation, in the majority of cases, with a legally qualified medical practitioner. They are not decisions which the women concerned have taken lightly; they are not decisions that doctors have taken lightly. But they are decisions that have been taken having regard to emotional stresses, the personal difficulties, the financial difficulties, the breakdown of marriage or any of the social causes which would prompt a woman to take that sort of step. 
I believe it is about time that the Parliament as well as the Australian community respected the position of a woman who has decided to take that step. I do not think it is the responsibility of an individual senator or a person belonging to the Festival of Light or the Right to Life Association to sit in judgment upon a woman who has to make that decision. It is a hard decision to make. If, after considering all the circumstances, it is decided to terminate a pregnancy, that decision is one which has been made privately and personally and ought to be the concern of any other section of the Australian community. 
Some people have used the term 'legal murder' in relation to the termination of a pregnancy. If that is the case, we had better start building many more prisons in this country because many people are committing crimes in the name of those people who espouse the views of organisations such as the Festival of Light and the Right to Life Association. The plain fact of the matter is that women do not make those sorts of decisions care-free and without regard to their responsibilities. As a male I can say only that a tremendous responsibility rests with those women who are forced to make these sorts of decisions. It is proper that in the Australian Capital Territory they should have recourse to a doctor to be assisted in determining the issue legally, in the event that they have to make such a decision. 

 Senator Harradine was quite critical of the remarks made by  Senator Baume.  It appears that  Senator Harradine  has no conception of the need for women to be given help when making decisions about whether to proceed with a pregnancy.  Senator Baume  pointed out in his contribution that he, together with the husband, has had to counsel and assist a wife who has continued with a pregnancy. As well as that he has had to assist the parties concerned when a pregnancy has had to be terminated. It seems to me that it is in that area and that area alone that we ought to be making a judgment in relation to these matters. The very simple strategem that  Senator Ryan  has adopted in this case is to give the Senate an opportunity to disallow an ordinance which was made by the Minister when he put aside the advice given to him by the elected representatives of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. If we support, as I believe many honourable senators in this chamber say they support, the principle of freedom of choice, then we ought to give to the women of the Australian Capital Territory freedom of choice in relation to these matters. In that regard it is my intention to support not only the motion moved by  Senator Ryan  but also any amendments which will have the effect of helping to achieve that objective. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and follows questions I asked him last week about consumer affairs. Is the Minister aware that a number of products declared unsafe by the New South Wales Department of Consumer Affairs or in respect of which that Department requires special warnings to be given to consumers are on sale in the Australian Capital Territory? Specifically, these goods include car jacks which collapse under stress, rotary paint strippers which can cause eye injury, children's tents without adequate ventilation, portable fire extinguishers which do not conform to proper standards, children's bath fun foam which can cause suffocation and baby walkers and folding tables which can cause injury to young children. Has the Government carried out a survey to establish whether goods so certified by the States are on sale in Canberra? What steps will the Government take to warn and protect consumers who may not be aware of the problems associated with such goods? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The Opposition would want to be associated with the commendation of the Australian Electoral Office for the initiatives that it has taken in respect of a number of matters which are the subject of this statement. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  referred to the fact that, over the past three years, the Electoral Office has seen fit to begin a campaign to educate the electorate about the responsibilities of the electorate and about the need for it to vote formally and intelligently in respect of all matters for which the community has some responsibility. The initiatives taken by the Electoral Office in that respect are to be supported. However, I would like to make brief reference to one or two specific matters. 
It seems to me that, in order to consummate what the Electoral Office has sought to do, the 
Government ought to have another look at the whole issue of how best to overcome the problem of informal voting, which is a significant factor in elections, particularly those for the Senate. We have some evidence to indicate that to adopt the principle, for example, of optional preferential voting would do a lot towards achieving the objectives which the Government and the Electoral Office have sought to achieve in the initiatives to which I have referred. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in New South Wales some 30-odd years ago the then State Government introduced a form of proportional representation and subsequently opted for a system of optional voting. One amendment to the voting procedures enabled voters in local government elections, for example, to vote by recording a vote for more than half the number of persons who had nominated for the position. Another amendment enabled voters to vote by recording a vote for one candidate in addition to the number of candidates to be elected. That achieved the objective of reducing the number of informal votes cast and simplified the electoral process without necessarily taking away the right of the electors to record a full formal vote inasmuch as they could extend their preferences if they so desired. 
More recently, the New South Wales Government- I think it is worth noting that this was done in co-operation with the Opposition parties in New South Wales- brought about a very significant change in electoral procedures for the Legislative Council. Those important electoral amendments for the first time introduced to New South Wales the optional voting system. Whilst I have not been able to get the precise final figures on the advantages that accrued to the electors in the recent Legislative Council elections as a result of this change, I think it is true to say that fewer than 5 per cent of the voters involved voted informally under a similar method of voting to that which is used for Australian Senate elections except in relation to optional preferences. Shortly figures will become available which will confirm the tentative figures I have. This represents the lowest percentage of informal votes recorded in an election at large for a considerable number of years. 
Let us look at the debate when the Senate last dealt with this matter of optional preferential voting. I refer to the debate on 16 April 1975 when the then Leader of the Government in the Senate and, I think, possibly the shadow Minister at that time  Senator Withers,  were dealing with this question of optional preferential voting. Subsequently evidence has developed in relation to the New South Wales experience which confirms that it is in the best interests of the voters and of democracy that an optional system of voting should exist, particularly in relation to the Australian Senate. The arguments that were produced on that occasion by the spokesman for the then Opposition- the Liberal and National Country parties- have not been borne out in fact. An analysis shows that whatever actions may be taken by the Electoral Office to avoid informal voting and to reduce the incidence of it, that unless we carry the system through to an optional system we will only marginally and minimally reduce the degree of informal voting. 
I have taken the time to look at the figures for the last three Senate elections, that is the double dissolutions in 1974 and 1975 and the election in 1977. The results show a consistent pattern of informal voting at Senate elections, For example, in New South Wales in 1 974 the figure was 12.3 1 per cent. It dropped to 9.74 per cent in 1975 and 9.59 per cent in 1977. In Victoria, in 1974 it was 11.13 per cent, in 1 975 it was 8.11 per cent and in 1977 it was 9.1 per cent. In South Australia, the figures were 1 1.38 per cent in 1 974, 9.95 per cent in 1975 and 10.39 per cent in 1977. 
Yes. The figures for Tasmania are 11.21 per cent in 1974, 9.88 per cent in 1 975 and 7.09 per cent in 1 977. 1 think the emphasis that is placed on ethnic affairs in this report of the Minister, and the attempts that have been made by the Electoral Office, have been designed to overcome that problem. I do not challenge that. I think it is probably not without some significance that the process of improving the situation began in 1975, 1 hope following the debate in this place. On that occasion the government of the day, the Australian Labor Party Government, attempted to introduce optional preferential voting but this move was defeated by the decision of the then Opposition parties, together with some of the independent senators. I would imagine that the Electoral Office, having gleaned some of the valid points that were made in that particular debate, set about trying to rectify the problem and subsequently it took the initiatives. I draw the attention of the Minister and of the Senate to the fact that an even better breakdown of the figures shows, for example, that the number of informal votes in the seat of Sydney in 1974 was 20.5 per cent. In Reid, it was 16.2 per cent and in Grayndler it was 16.1 per cent. 
Yes, that is Senate informal votes. I think that highlights the importance of the steps that have been taken by the Electoral Office. In those areas we have perhaps the largest concentration of ethnic communities. Therefore the steps that have been taken by the Government but more particularly, I should say, by the Electoral Office, are very valuable steps. By the use of radio, television or ethnic newspapers the Electoral Office has taken steps to reduce the incidence of informal voting. The percentage of informal votes in areas such as Bradfield, Berowra, Wentworth and Warringah were 5.59, 7.3, 7.4 and 9.2 respectively. I think that underlines the fact that we have a problem in relation to people of ethnic background, as well as those whose educational standards are perhaps not as good in one area as opposed to another; that there is a case for educational programs to be carried out and for the Government to re-examine the advantages of optional preferential voting. 
I have pointed to the reduction in the number of informal votes in both local government and State elections in New South Wales. There is a case for the Commonwealth Government to reexamine the highly exaggerated and emotive terminology used by the then Opposition speakers in 1975, when this matter was before the Senate, when  Senator Withers  was endeavouring to suggest that the amendments which our Government was putting forward were designed to hoodwink the Senate and the community generally, that they were not an attempt to make voting simple. He also made the point that the Labor Party Caucus itself did not vote in such a way. The fact is that the Labor Party Caucus does have an optional voting system for the election of its officers and its executive. 
It is worth noting that whilst steps have been taken to reduce the incidence of informal voting, the most effective way of doing so would be for the Government to reconsider the proposition relating to the introduction of optional preferential voting which was before the Senate in 1975. We have a new Minister for Administrative Services. Electoral matters come within his jurisdiction. In the interests of making every vote an effective vote in a democratic society we should try to reduce the incidence of informal voting. In some areas as many as one in five lose the value of their vote because of inability to understand the process. For example, in the 1974 Senate election there were 73 candidates for New South Wales. Although some people would have said that that was a conspiratorial attempt to bring about a desired result, in fact it changed the course of history. If the Labor Party had not been disadvantaged by the high incidence of informal voting in 1974 and  Mr Westerway  had won the third position in New South Wales, there could have been an entirely different political ball game. I am sure that this Government would not want to be associated with the view, fairly widely held, that by denying to voters a means of avoiding informal voting it is negating the principle of effective voting and democratic processes. It is in those circumstances that we ask the Government to have another look at optional voting; in fact, it could examine a whole range of electoral matters. 
As I understand the position, one of my colleagues in another place proposes to move, before the Parliament adjourns, that there be a parliamentary examination of the Commonwealth Electoral Act in order that the true will of the people will be expressed properly in every vote recorded, whether for the Senate or the House of Representatives. Those few remarks are designed to encourage the Minister, and I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Has the Government's attention been drawn to the report on nuclear power costs which is the twenty-third report by the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, United States Congress, made on 26 April this year? The report states: 
Radioactive waste is a significant and growing problem . . . there is still no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely disposing of this waste. 
Further, the report goes on to state: 
After 30 years of nuclear power development, technology to dismantle a large commercial reactor has not been demonstrated. 
I ask the Minister: In view of this conclusion, and the serious admissions by this responsible body, what steps will the Government take to curtail the sale of uranium for commercial purposes? Also, will the Government, until adequate safeguards are provided, review its unilateral decision to mine uranium? 
The amount of money that is suggested should be voted to this part of the Estimates relates to a very important investigative and protective role, part of a new responsibility that has been given to the Federal Government in recent times. Whilst it is true that a proportion of that responsibility has always been borne by a Commonwealth body- I refer to the Industries Assistance Commission, formerly the Tariff Boardthe Price Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission are two important new areas of responsibility which arise out of the legislation that was introduced within the last six or seven years. I want to comment particularly on some of the references that have been made in the Trade Practices Commission report and to survey whether the tasks that the Parliament gave to these two important organisations are able effectively to be carried out from the legislative responsibilities as determined by this Parliament. I make very little reference to the Industries Assistance Commission but refer particularly to the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I think it has to be said that there is a measure of conflict of interests here, in that we have a Minister who concerns himself with matters of business as well as matters of consumer affairs. As indicated in the report of the Trade Practices Commission in particular and in other reports with respect to the PJT, there is no question that there is a conflict of interest in these areas of the Department which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is obliged to administer. The report indicates very clearly that the Government's policy of restricting staff- I refer to the staff ceilings which have been imposed in the last two or three years as a result of the Government's policies- have had a disastrous effect upon the ability of the Commission to carry out its responsibilities. I submit to the Senate and to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who is the Minister with this representative responsibility in the chamber that in a period when the State governments are taking more energetic steps in the area of consumer affairs so much of the work they do is nullified unless a degree of responsibility and involvement is accepted by the Federal Government, particularly through what could be the effective work of the Trade Practices Commission. 
Whilst all States in one way or another are involved in carrying out some responsibilities in protecting the interests of consumers, I think it has to be said that in Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia there is a degree of involvement by the State governments which is rather pleasing from the point of view of consumers. As the Minister will concede from the number of questions and matters that I have raised in the Parliament in recent times, there is a degree of uniformity and conformity of action lacking at the national level. It is not very encouraging from the point of view of consumers to read in this report that the Trade Practices Commission has been subject to severe restaints on expenditure and staffing. I draw attention to the fact that the staff has fallen from 205 in 1976-77 to 196 in 1977-78 and that the Commission has been notified by the Government that this figure is to be further reduced during the current financial year to a ceiling of 1 90. The report states: 
The Commission has moved resources more towards investigation enforcement, but this involves a heavy strain upon the limited resources of the Crown Solicitor's (Trade Practices) Sub-Office. 
So we would have an effective reduction not only in the capacity of the Commission to carry out its investigative role but also in the capacity of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to take legal action arising out of its investigation. The cut in funds to the Department is such that it makes it very difficult for the Department to follow through the legal side of its responsibilities. 
I think there is a case to be made out to the Government and to the Minister particularly that when they persist in their policy of staff ceilings at the expense of such organisations as the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal they are in fact weakening the ability of those organisations to carry out even a minor part of their legislative responsibilities. When one examines this report one finds, even from the point of view of those who espouse so often in this chamber the principles of competition and free enterprise- they are of course phrases which flow very easily from the Ups of Ministers- that the Commission itself has in the last year or so had to take action in respect of four of the major petrol companies in this country. I refer to the Total Oil Company of Australia, BP Australia Limited, Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd and Amoco Australia Pty Ltd. The Commission has sought to impose some restrictive measures and restraints upon the sale of discount petrol. Legal action has had to be taken to put into effect the principles of competition. Of course, the report shows that there are many cases in which the Commission has had success and is required to continue its operations in the protection of consumer interests. 
It seems to me that if we are going to persist in the view that staff ceilings should be reduced- I realise that the Government is wedded to that point of view- there ought to be some selective approach to this principle and that it ought not be applied across the board in every department as if the reduction of staff in a particular department does not have a disastrous effect upon the ability of that department to carry out its responsibilities. That of course is exactly what is happening in the case of the Trade Practices Commission. So much of the resources have been restricted and reduced as to render ineffective the sort of work that the Commission is obliged to do. Of course there is a number of references in the report to advertising and to what is happening in the market place with respect to specials in the food lines and in supermarkets. The Department and the Commission find it difficult to carry out the action that is required to protect the interests of the consumer, yet we heard a statement by the Minister only about 10 days ago that because the resources of the Trade Practices Commission have been so reduced he has found it necessary  to  ask the Prices Justification Tribunal to conduct an examination of the prices of processed food. That seems to me to show the incongruity of the Government's approach to the matter. 
Now, instead of the Trade Practices Commission having the resources to carry out properly its monitoring work and its investigative and protective roles of consumer interests, it is not able to do so because of the cutback in funds and the lack of financial resources. Yet because the Government becomes aware that in the area of food prices- processed foods in particularsomething wrong is happening, the Prices Justification Tribunal is asked to examine it and to report to the Government. The worst feature of this situation is the amendments to the legislation concerning the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. From my recollection since this Government has come to office four or five amendments have been made to the legislation affecting these organisations. The Minister concedes the effect of the amendments in his Press statement of 3 November concerning the inquiry that is to be held into the food industry. He said: 
This would not be a public inquiry as this is not possible under the Prices Justification Act in its present form. 
If the Government had not amended the Act we would have been able to have a public inquiry into what is happening with processed foods. So when we deal with consumer affairs it seems that we do so with one hand behind our back because only part of the body politic is operating effectively in this area. That is to be regretted. The activities of these organisations have shown the need for such bodies to operate. Consumer interests need to be protected from the misleading advertising that is taking place in regard to the price of food- which the Minister has said is to be investigated- and the use of specials in the market place. If a housewife wants to shop properly and effectively to save a couple of dollars she has to go to six different supermarkets in the local town in order to buy the specials at the best price. I question the amount of money that is being spent on advertising. Surely the Government must be concerned about this. Indeed, the Trade Practices Commission mentions this in its report. 
The amount of advertising of so-called food specials every Wednesday in the newspapers throughout Australia must involve many millions of dollars. Companies, manufacturers and retailers, are seeking to entice people into shops. But in order for a housewife to profit from the specials she has to spend countless hours shopping around. Surely this matter is within the province of the Trade Practices Commission. Yet in this area the Government's cutbacks have had a disastrous effect. It is somewhat farcical that we should be concerning ourselves with the PJT inquiry into processed foods when the Trade Practices Commission lacks the teeth to carry out an effective price monitoring service on behalf of consumers in Australia. 
I refer now to the Federal Government's proposed consumer protection magazine. The Government spent $21,000 producing proofs for the publication of this journal which was designed to bring about an awareness in the minds of consumers of what is happening in the market place where they are pretty powerless against the forces of the proprietors who own the markets, the advertising emphasis and the whole spiel that is used today to try to entice people to buy. The Federal Government sought to bring out a regular publication for the purpose of overcoming some of the imbalance that exists and giving some assistance to the consumer. Yet the Government has decided to scrap the journal after it has spent $21,000. But at the same time the Government has decided to allocate $50,000 for flags, national anthem recordings and portraits of the Royal family. Where is our sense of proportion and our sense of responsibility? I do not suppose it is of much use for me to try to move a motion, knowing the way the Senate generally operates, but I think it ought to be brought home to the Government that if the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal are to be effective- even with the limitations of the amendments that have been brought into effect in recent times- they must have the human and financial resources to carry out properly the job of consumer protection. 
The matters raised tonight by Senators Townley and Martin concern me. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will recall that this matter was canvassed very considerably in the Estimates Committee. I think we could probably say that we interrogated the officers of the Department of Post and Telecommunications until we were satisfied that in respect of this matter Telecom Australia was doing all within its power to overcome the problems and to act compassionately in respect of the complaints that have been made from time to time. It seems to me, based on evidence which has been brought forward this evening, that the matter ought to be put before the officer concerned who spoke quite firmly- perhaps I could even use the word glibly- to dismiss the view that was being expressed by honourable senators when we were dealing with that particular aspect. I do not wish to say anything more about that matter but it does seem to me that there is an area of conflict between the evidence that was given before the Committee and the statements that have been made by the Government senators this evening. 
I wish to refer to a matter which I think ought to be considered by the Senate. That is the continuing disputes and problems associated with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have been concerned to recall the criticism that was expressed about the ABC in its totality by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the period when he was aspiring to become Prime Minister and in the early days of his current position as Prime Minister. I have been concerned also about the course of action that has been taken by this Government to reduce the effectiveness of the ABC. I have already spoken about the effect that the cutbacks in public funding and the imposition of staff ceilings is having in the area of business and consumer affairs. This situation is even more disastrous when it is applied to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I think we have to express our disappointment with the way in which the Commission has handled its relationship with the Government concerning funds and staff ceilings. There are areas of responsibility in this matter. We have the Commissioners, we have senior management and we have the employees. It has been left to the employees on the lower end of the scale- if I can speak in categories I put it in the third category- to bring to the Government's attention, the public's attention and the Parliament's attention the winding-down that has taken place in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's general areas of responsibility. Had it not been for the action of the staff we would not have the review which the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has said he is prepared to refer to the Cabinet with a view to overcoming the difficulties that have developed as a result of the three Budgets brought in by the LiberalNational Country Party Government. From this Government's first Budget, and also in its second and third Budgets, funding cuts and staff ceilings have been imposed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission which have placed it in such a position that it is not able to carry out its responsibilities. It is not able to provide the technical back-up, the programming and the range of facilities that is expected by the Australian community. 
It seems to me that we have to apportion some blame for this. In my view the Commissioners have been derelict in their responsibility to bring before the Government what those staff and funding cuts would mean to the ability of the Broadcasting Commission to carry out its allotted tasks. The  Chairman  of the Senate Estimates Committee F will recall that we put ABC senior management under test in the Committee. They rather grudgingly finally conceded that there were problems that would make it difficult for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in this coming year to carry out its programs and responsibilities. We were assured that the cuts that had been made in the technical area of the Australian Broadcasting Commission were such that adjustments could be made in such a way to enable broadcasting and television services to be maintained. 
We are indebted to Graham Williams's article in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  If there is any substance- I believe there is- in the objective analysis that has been carried out by that newspaper of what is happening to the ABC, it seems to me that in this respect the evidence that was given before the Committee needs to be reexamined because obviously there is a point of conflict here. The Government is now being forced to re-examine whether cutting back some of the technical services has had a disastrous effect upon the effective functioning of the television and radio services of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I consider the Commission to be most responsible for the disastrous state that we are in at the moment. Senior management has not provided the community, the Parliament or the Government with information on the effects of these cuts. It has been left to the staff- both at the senior officer level and at the ABC Staff Association level; that is at the lower echelons of the ABC- to bring home forcibly to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  that there cannot be a continuance of cutbacks if the ABC is to carry out its obligations to the Australian community. There is no doubt, whatever the ratings may show with respect to the ABC's radio or television services, that the ABC in its responsibility to the Parliament has won a place in the minds of Australian people. It is an acceptable medium. Its objectivity is accepted by those who listen to radio and watch television. There is no evidence whatsoever that there is support for any principle that would allow a deterioration in that service. 
Honourable senators ought to be placing on record their appreciation to the staff who have shouldered the main part of the burden, not by taking action in respect of their own jobs or conditions but to defend the institution that is the ABC. They have brought the point home so forcibly that the Minister has had to concede that there is a need for further examination of what has happened in the three Budgets brought in by this Government. I am disappointed that the senior ABC officers whom we had before the Committee did not bring out that sort of evidence when questions were put to them. Of course, that was in accordance with their judgment and I accept it as such. I am sorry to read what  Mr White  has had to say; he now finds himself having to stand down staff and to take action against colleagues with whom he has worked for a considerable number of years. But senior management has areas of responsibility as indeed has the Commission. The responsibility has fallen upon the staff to take action, not in defence of their rights but in defence of the institution and to seek to continue to provide the Australian people with an adequate television and radio network. I regret that this sort of evidence did not come out when honourable senators questioned the officers before the Senate Estimates Committee. 
The only opportunity we have to place our concern on record is to do so here in this chamber. We express the hope that the Government, in its desire to impose staff ceilings, will not apply them in an across the board way as it has done. This action makes it impossible for the technical area of the ABC to measure up to its responsibility and to maintain the sort of service that is expected of the ABC in providing its wide variety of facilities to the Australian people. I would like some assurance from the Minister that there will be a proper examination of the whole problem of what has happened to the ABC and an undertaking by this Government that it will re-examine the steps that have been taken to ensure that adequate funds and staff will be made available. I seek an undertaking that even if there has to be a measure of curtailment it will not affect the high quality and range of radio and television services which Australia has come to expect from the ABC. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the levying of sales tax on equipment or toys that aid in the development of mentally or physically handicapped children places a heavy financial burden on the parents of those children? Will the Government consider waiving sales tax on such equipment and toys, when purchased upon the recommendation of a doctor, having in mind that the educative nature of the equipment or toy is essential for the development of the child? 
I trust that this legislation will excite the same amount of response and interest as the Bill with which we have just dealt because it is of importance not only to Tasmania but also to all the States. The States Grants (Roads) Amendment Bill seeks to amend the States Grants (Roads) 
Act 1977 to provide that an additional $33m be paid to the States in 1978-79 and in 1979-80 for the purposes of road works programs. Under the principal Act, $475m was appropriated to the States for each of the three years 1977-78 to 1979-80. It was decided then that the grants for the 1978-79 and 1979-80 periods would be adjusted upwards in line with the price movement so that the value of the grants in real terms would be maintained at the level of the original legislation in 1977. 
This Bill is said to implement the first of the two required annual indexation adjustments, by providing for a 6.9 per cent increase over the grant provided in 1977-78, based on a forecast of the price movement in the 1978-79 period. The principal Act also sets down that annual quotas for expenditure by each State be met from its own resources. These quotas represent the minimum amounts of expenditure required from State sources but, of course, each State is encouraged to and is generally free to allocate its quotas amongst the various road works categories according to its priorities. For example, we have the national highways, the national commercial roads, rural arterial roads and so on. The Bill implements the Government's decision that State expenditure quotas for 1978-79 should be increased by the same percentage as the Commonwealth grants. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, but the debate does offer us an opportunity to have a look at the Fraser Government's record as regards road construction and the road transport industry generally. I believe it affords an opportunity for the Senate, certainly for the Opposition, to chip away at the myth that the deficit has to be cut at all costs, to chip away at the inadequate philosophy that this Government is pursuing in its economic program and to chip away at the unacceptable theory that the deficit has to be reduced or the economy will not get going again. What seems to be ignored by the Government in its general cut-back of funds- whether for roads, housing or the States- is that a large proportion of the money that is allocated to the States, particularly as it applies to the roads program, is in fact spent in the private sector. I have been told by my colleague the Minister for Public Works and  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales that considerably more than half- about two-thirds- of the money allocated by his Department is in fact spent in the private sector. When we talk about improving the private sector we ought to see that the allocation of funds to the States, whether for housing, roads or general public works, does have its response in the private sector. 
Several points need to be examined. Will the annual indexation grant provided for in this Bill be sufficient to maintain in real terms for the 1978-79 period the level of funding made available in 1977-78? Presumably the adjustment for which the Bill provides is being made on the basis of the forecast rise in 1978-79 of the national accounts implicit price deflator for private investment in other building and construction areas, as was foreshadowed when the principal Act was introduced in September of last year. But then we suggest that if one uses a different indicator of the inflation rate, it is clear that this will not maintain the real level of grants to the States for road construction and maintenance. 
The Budget for 1978-79 revealed the difficulty that the Government encounters when forward estimates have to be made. For example, the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of the University of Melbourne forecast recently that the consumer price index could be expected currently to increase by 8 per cent. Commonwealth funding for roads would then decline by one per cent in real terms. We concede that in the area of economics it is rather difficult to make forecasts. We are appreciative of the fact that if we got half a dozen economists in a room we would probably get half a dozen different forecasts. Nevertheless, forecasts must be made and perhaps it might be better to index grants to the rate of inflation as measured in the consumer price index or perhaps some other formula could be adopted. 
What one must ask in respect of Commonwealth funding for roads under the provisions of this Bill is: Will the real money be available? I submit for the consideration of the Senate that it will not, that there will in fact be a decline in real terms of at least one per cent. The evidence from New South Wales suggests that road maintenance and building costs have increased at a rate faster than has the consumer price index. For example, the report of the Commissioner for Main Roads for 1977-78, which was presented in the New South Wales Parliament as recently as Wednesday of this week, reveals that in the last five years road maintenance and building costs have risen by 109 per cent when compared with an increase of 82 per cent in the consumer price index. So one is entitled to say that the formula that is being followed by the Commonwealth Government does not adequately take this increase into consideration. 
How can the Government possibly claim that the real level of Commonwealth funding for roads is being maintained by this Bill when the indexation figure of 6.9 per cent is below the independently predicted rise for the CPI for 1978-79 and when it is probable that road building and maintenance costs have increased at a faster rate than has the CPI itself. One would have thought that the Government would have been a little more generous in its allocation of funds to the States for road construction. After all, as a result of current Budget decisions petrol prices have been increased by a massive 16c per gallon, which will mean that $772m will be extracted from motorists, operator-drivers and owners of motor vehicles in this country. 
One would have thought that this would have been a most opportune time for the Government to provide additional funds for roads, but no such increase has been granted. In fact, it is likely that in real terms the fund will decline marginally as I have suggested. The Bill merely maintains the totally inadequate level of road funding provided in the principal Act. We had plenty to say about that- in fact there were considerable misgivings- when the measure was considered last year. There are, of course, considerable misgivings about it on the part of the States. 
Last year, the reduction in real terms in road funding provided by the Commonwealth, as measured in terms of the CPI, was of the order of four per cent. This year a further reduction of one per cent has been made. In 1975-76-1 think it is important to examine the relative decline that has taken place- the share of gross domestic product that went to road construction and maintenance amounted to 0.612 per cent. That was the last year of the Labor Government's term of office. In 1976-77 the allocation dropped to 0.538 per cent. In 1975-76, again the year of the Hayden Budget, road grants, as a proportion of total Federal Government Budget outlay, amounted to 1 .99 per cent, lt is estimated that for 1978-79, as provided for in this legislation, that figure will drop to 1 .76 per cent. 
It is obvious that the Budget decision to increase the price of petrol by 16 cents per gallon is not part of any consideration of these issues. Certainly it is not part of any overall energy conservation strategy. If it were, one would have expected that the Government would be spending more money on roads because better road surfaces provide better fuel economy for motor vehicles; vehicles move more quickly, with more efficiency, and there is less delay. But this Government has not increased the allocation to the States for road construction and maintenance in real terms. As we have seen, it is attempting only to maintain the inadequate level of funding that exists at present, to maintain the status quo. There is reason to doubt that the Government is serious even in that objective. 
If the petrol price increase was part of any energy conservation strategy one might have expected the revenue gained from that measure to have been directed to the upgrading and extension of public transport services. Funding in real terms for urban public transport in the 1978-79 Budget represents a fall of 46 per cent over the level of funding in 1976-77. This is despite a survey which was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 12 September 1978 which showed very clearly the need for more involvement of Federal funds in the area of transport, both public and private. It is clear that the Government is not genuine in its claim that fuel prices have gone up in order to assist in conserving fuel and to enable greater exploration activities to take place. It is clear also that this Government regards Australian motorists and those engaged in the motor transport industry purely and simply as a source of revenue. They provide a milking cow for the Government. There is no doubt that motorists and the motoring industry are being exploited unmercifully by the Federal Government. 
That this is the true position becomes even more evident when one considers that the overseas record shows that where a pricing mechanism has been used in an attempt to ration the use of petroleum products it has failed. Many people in this country do not have a choice about using a motor car. They have to use a car because there is no other means of transport. That is particularly evident in the fast growing outer suburbs of our major cities. All these people simply have to bear the extra costs that this Government has imposed upon them in this Budget. Any first-year economics undergraduate will say that the demand for petroleum products is a classic example of a high price inelastic demand. Raising the price will bring only a marginal reduction in demand. We are entitled to say that the Fraser Government, by constraining the amount of Federal funds for roads, is trying to shift the burden of funding for road construction and maintenance to the States. That is what this legislation seeks to do. It seeks to force the States into a position where they will have to increase their motor vehicle registration charges and taxes and motor vehicle driving licence fees. This is the outcome of the Government's current policy. It is no wonder the States are reacting to it and are no longer enthusiastic about the Government's socalled co-operative federalism policies. 
To date the States have been able to resist the aim of the Federal Government. As a result of great efforts, the States have boosted their expenditure in excess of the quotas prescribed in the road legislation. For example, in 1976-77 New South Wales exceeded its quota by 46 per cent, Victoria by 8 per cent, Queensland by 60 per cent, South Australia by 44 per cent, Western Australia by 40 per cent and Tasmania by 134 per cent. Tasmania headed the list even in that respect. One wonders how long this effort can continue in the face of real reductions generally in Federal funding to the States. The States are trying, genuinely, to pull their weight. They are not being assisted by the penny-pinching policies of the Federal Government, despite the fact that the Federal Government, as I said earlier, has increased revenue from petrol tax of some $772m. 

 Mr Nixon then went overseas. There is much evidence to indicate that he is out of touch with the views of the various State road transport authorities and of the Ministers in the various State parliaments. He attacked the States for what he calls their annual bleat about the need for more Federal road funds. We had an interesting debate here yesterday in which my colleagues,  Senator Bishop  and  Senator McLaren,  and even honourable senators on the Government side, indicated that more funds are essential. However, I think we became bogged down then because we could not agree on a formula, although we all agree on the principle that more funds should be available for road construction.  Mr Nixon,  the Federal Minister who is piloting this legislation through the Parliament, said, to use the words that he used, that the States' 'repeated whinging' about road maintenance charges had always 'amazed' him. If that is a typical expression of the federalism policy, it seems to me that  Mr Nixon  is falling down in implementing even the Government's inept policies in that respect. He certainly shows that he has no understanding of the areas of responsibility that exist in the States. 
If this behaviour is indicative of his earlier record, it is little wonder that the States decided in July 1978- and that is not so long ago- to have nothing more to do with  Mr Nixon. Mr Nixon  said that he was pleased to be by-passed by the States when State Ministers met in Darwin to say something about the attitude that he was adopting. He said that he was quite happy to let the States have their discussions with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and take the matter out of his hands. It may be that he cannot win the battle in the Cabinet room to get adequate funds. I do not know whether that is his fault or the fault of the Prime Minister. Certainly there is unanimity among the States that they want a larger share of the petrol tax, particularly in a year in which tax collections have gone up so dramatically. They want a larger share of those tax collections so that they can fulfil their responsibilities to provide a better road system in their States. 
Time will not permit me to deal with all the comments that have been made by the various State Ministers. A meeting was held in Darwin and the report that appeared in the  Courier-Mail  following that meeting read: 
The decision to take the issue out of  Mr Nixon's  hands followed a heated 90-minute debate yesterday at the 23rd meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council being held in Darwin. 
The meeting decided that future battles for extra road funding would be fought out between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers. 
Of course, when there is such unanimity among the States one would expect- and I heard one honourable senator on the Government side say today that this is a States' House- that a little more pressure would be exerted by Government senators to see that the Government accepts its responsibilities, that the Senate acts as a State House, and that when these decisions are made it expresses to the Government the view that it wants adequate funds made available to put into effect the road programs of the States. We are aware that in every State there is a great lag in road construction. A great need exists to upgrade our main road system and our secondary road system as well as our rural road system. In those circumstances we believe that a responsibility falls on the Government to listen to the voice of the States, to listen to the views of the Senate and to accept its own responsibilities. 
In conclusion, I point out that in yesterday's  Daily Mirror  we had reported a most unusual statement coming from the Opposition Parties in the New South Wales Parliament. They are, of course, the counterparts of the Government Parties here. The newspaper report stated that the Opposition spokesman for roads,  Mr Bruce  Cowan, would open a campaign next month to get more Government funds invested in roads. The report went on to quote  Mr Cowan  as saying: 
The motorist is lining the Federal Government's coffers with millions of dollars but getting little in return . . . 
Every time he puts 40 litres of petrol into his car, he contributes $4 to the Federal Government in tax. 
And S3 of that goes into consolidated revenue while the road system remains congested and grossly inefficient. 
The  President  of the National Roads and Motorists Association is quoted as saying that it was a massive and unfair contribution to general spending. Of course, he was referring to the motoring industry. The Opposition will not oppose the BUI because any money is better than none. But it does make a plea for the voice of the States and the voice of the Opposition to be heeded somewhere within the Government so that ultimately sufficient funds will be made available to the States to enable them to carry out their responsibilities. 
Debate interrupted. 
I think it is singularly appropriate that the Senate should debate the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) 1978 immediately following a debate in which my leader  Senator Wriedt  drew the Senate's attention to the growing overseas indebtedness of Australia. This Bill seeks to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of a Boeing 727-200 series aircraft, the tenth of its fleet. I think it is worthwhile drawing attention to the fact that Trans-Australia Airlines, the other major domestic airline in Australia, has been able to finance the purchase of its additional aircraft from its own resources. It has not had to resort to overseas borrowings, which is becoming an annual event as far as Ansett is concerned. In that sense, as  Senator Wriedt  so ably explained to the Senate, Ansett is contributing to our international indebtedness. The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to $US 1 1 . 1 2m, or its equivalent, which represents some 80 per cent of the estimated total cost of the aircraft and all of the associated parts and equipment together with the interest payments on the amount borrowed. 
The Bill could hardly be regarded as contentious as it is in accord with government practice over a considerable number of years. For that reason the Opposition will not oppose it. The proposal will not involve the Commonwealth in any expenditure. It is probably worth commenting that that is just as well. If it did, the Government might not have been willing to bring it forward, having regard to its paranoia about financial matters in recent times. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  mentioned the international aviation policy and the domestic air transport policy followed in this country. The Opposition believes that it should take this opportunity to look at the Government's aviation record and policies. The Opposition agrees with the comment in the second reading speech that Australian airlines are making a significant contribution to the development and welfare of this country. The Opposition pays tribute to the fact that Australia has a very fine air safety record, one which is equal to the world's best. The Opposition, however, is concerned to see that the activities of the Government, and of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in particular, do not hamstring the airlines in maintaining that contribution and that proud record. As we well know, there have been occasions on which those involved in the airline industry have seen fit to draw the Government's attention to some deterioration in this respect. Insofar as that is our concern, we on this side of the chamber can only agree with the comments that were made by my colleague the honourable member for Shortland,  Mr Morris,  the shadow Minister for Transport in the other place, who stated quite succinctly that aviation policy in Australia is in a shambles. It is in a shambles because of the bungling and the incompetence of the Minister for Transport. 
In the matter of international aviation policy and domestic air transport policy the record of the Government is indeed sorry. Let us look at the position of the domestic airline industry. I wish to raise very briefly a number of matters on this aspect. It was not until 2 1 August 1 978 that the Minister for Transport released the first part of a major report which had been gathering dust for some 15 or 16 months, on Australia's domestic air transport policy. It was made public only after there had been a lot of pressure on the Minister to order its release. The general thrust of the recommendations of that report was to retain the principle of the two major airlines operating over the trunk network in Australia but to make a number of significant changes with the object of fostering increased competition. It is to this aspect that I wish to make reference. 
Specifically, the report expressed concern at the narrow range of fare type available in Australia and the extent of parallel scheduling of air services. It is true to say that there is a measure of discontent and concern in Australia about those matters. The Bureau of Transport Economics told the review committee that it found the two-line airline system not administratively efficient by world standards and as a reason it pointed to the uncompetitive environment of the two-airline style of operation. That view has been supported by a comment that was made by economics lecturer,  Dr Robert  Hocking, as reported in the Melbourne  Herald  in July of this year.  Dr Hocking  said that under the twoairline system there is no incentive to innovate or, possibly, to cut costs. That has to be accepted as a valid criticism. 
One would hope that the recommendations of the review committee, insofar as they would assist the objective of making air travel as accessible as possible to the Australian community, would be implemented expeditiously. One would hope also that the Minister would urge the airlines to agree as quickly as possible upon any changes in the Airlines Agreement Act. That has just not taken place. Given the Minister's record in other fields- let us face it, he has been under a fair amount of criticism in recent times about both domestic airlines and international problems specifically relating to cheaper international air fares- one can say only that this is a forlorn hope. 
According to a very interesting article in the  Australian Financial Review of  25 October, only a few weeks ago, the recommendations of the report were scheduled to be incorporated, in the current session of Parliament, in an updated Act covering the two-airlines agreement. It certainly is not shown in the list of Bills that are to be considered this year. Department of Transport officials have admitted that neither Trans Australia-Airlines nor Ansett has yet agreed on how the changes in the Act should be made, so obviously the matter will be held over until some time next year. Under a government that is committed to a two-airline policy that was designed to meet the needs and aspirations of Australia many years ago- in an earlier generation- are we to see interminable dithering and stalling, the inability on the part of the Minister to bring to fruition the recommendations of that report? In just over two years- the period to which I want to make some reference- as a result of this Government's administration and policies, domestic air fares have increased in cumulative terms by 27 per cent. The Government has sought to off-load onto the airlines responsibility for this increase although the legislative responsibility for examination, and approval of increased fares rests specifically with the Minister for Transport. 
There has been a dramatic change in the Minister's handling of applications for domestic airfare increases. For example, on 13 July  Mr Nixon  said that the six per cent fare increase then granted would not cover all of the increased costs being met by the airlines but forecast that traffic growth would absorb a significant part of the costs. On the most recent occasion, in September last, the airlines sought a further 7.5 per cent increase. That figure was reduced by one-third to 5 per cent. This was sharply inconsistent with the Minister's actions in regard to the previous five applications for increases, which were rubberstamped by him. He said at the time that the increases were thoroughly justified. We do not know how the decision has been made. In his speeches and Press statements on the latest application no indication has been given of the methods he used to reach that conclusion; but the decision cast doubt on the previous approvals for fare increases which, as I have said, were merely a rubber-stamping of what the airlines had sought. 
The Opposition wants to see public examination and justification of air fare increases. It has been said without repudiation that domestic air fares will be increased still further. In fact, we will reach a position in which domestic fares will be higher than those for international air travel. The Opposition wants to see consumer participation in aviation, especially in the setting of fares. The Opposition would like to see public discussion and alleviation of the problems presented by parallel flight times. I am sure that every member of the Parliament, as indeed are many members of the travelling public, is fed to the teeth about the scheduling of parallel flight times under which the two major airlines operate. We would like to see some competition. After all, having a free, competitive system is one of the lynch pins of this Government's whole economic philosophy. Yet there is no competition; what one company wants to do the other company invariably follows blindly, with the approval of the Minister. 
Certainly, we would like to see a great variation in flight departure times so that, on the basis of a direction from the Government, a better system would operate, and we may have a choice not only of fares but also of departure times. The travelling public could then make a choice. There is no choice when one pays the same fare on both airlines and the flights leave at the same time. That happens throughout Australia. There is a need to satisfy the public that domestic air fare increases are warranted, especially when one considers that the domestic airline industry now has an annual turnover of over one billion dollars. We are not talking about some small-time, billy cart operation, but about one of the major industries of this country, one upon which in a sense the whole of our economy is now based. 
One of the startling anomalies of the policy that is being followed is that while profits are rising air fares are also rising. The Melbourne  Age  of 28 September reported that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd had made a record profit of $ 18.35m- it appears that in the last financial year, TAA also had a better result than it had in the previous year- yet on that very day the  Sydney Morning Herald  carried a front page story saying, 'Ansett says fare rise is inevitable'. Thus, while the airlines report record profits the newspapers report that fare increases are inevitable. That seems to me to be a contradiction. 
We could say a lot more about the problems facing the airline industry but all that we want to do is to take advantage of these few moments to say that we are concerned, as we believe is the travelling public, about what is happening on our domestic front. We are concerned also about the shilly-shallying that has been going on in regard to cheaper flights overseas. We cannot understand why the Laker application was rejected out of hand, why  Mr Brown  came from the United States of America, made a number of inflammatory statements, withdrew them the next day, and a few days later we had the announcement by the Minister that there would be a reduction in overseas travelling costs. All of this should give us a chance to debate more adequately these sorts of issues because they are exciting a lot of comment in the Press and the tourist industry, and interest in the Australian community. Be that as it may, the purpose of this Bill, which we support, is to ratify a government decision which follows an old practice. We believe that it is time that we suggested to Ansett that it ought to finance its purchases out of its own resources in the same way as TAA has been successfully able to do. 
The Senate is being asked to give its assent to this rather simple Bill which seeks to put into effect the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal on salaries and allowances paid to judges and other persons of a judicial nature. The Bill also seeks to amend section 17 of the Remuneration and Allowances Act. This is a rather technical amendment which does not alter in substance the main purpose of the original legislation. The new schedule in the Bill has the effect of increasing the allowances and salaries of those designated in the original legislation. The Opposition, of course, has no objection to that. With those few words I indicate that the Opposition supports the passage of the Bill. 
I present the following petition from 28 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the proposal by the Australian Government to abolish Paternity Leave and restrict the provisions relating to Maternity Leave which are currently contained in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject the passage of any legislation which has as its purpose the abolition of Paternity Leave and the restriction of the Maternity Leave provisions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government given any consideration to the recent report by the Prices Justification Tribunal that it be given the power to establish a monitoring service on commercial prices imposed both in the private sector and by statutory bodies? Does the Government see the need for the examination of such activities as cause higher prices to consumers and the value of objective reporting on costs, productivity, prices, sales and profits by such a government agency? 
This Bill originated in this place on the initiative of  Senator Chaney  in his capacity as the Minister for Administrative Services and it seeks to make some minor changes to the constitution of the Remuneration Tribunal. Of course, the Opposition has no basic objection to that. It has to be said that this Bill and the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill 1978 seek to make only minor changes to the original legislation. I think it must be conceded by the Government that the original Remuneration Tribunals Act has stood the test of time and that since 1973 when the legislation was introduced the salaries and allowances of office holders, members of Parliament, judges and others have been dealt with in a much more satisfactory manner. In 1974 the Bill was amended to extend the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to deal not just with office holders and parliamentarians but also with academic salaries. The legislation was agreed to in amended form by the Parliament in 1974. However, since that date the Tribunal has dealt with wider definitions which has been a fairly satisfactory way of dealing with the problem. In previous years questions relating to the salaries and allowances of the people I mentioned earlier became somewhat contentious in the minds of the public and created some reaction even in the Parliament itself from time to time. The passing of the Remuneration Tribunals Act in 1973 took this question out of the area of controversy and left the Tribunal with a capacity to assess the work value of those in respect of whom it has sought to make recommendations on salaries, that is, office holders, members of Parliament and members of the judiciary generally. 
However, the new factor that has entered the problem and that necessitates the amendment on this occasion is that the  Chairman  of the Tribunal,  Mr Justice  Campbell, who has impressed everybody with the way in which he has conducted his duties, has been appointed, probably in recognition of the prowess that he has displayed, Chancellor of the University of Queensland. As a consequence, he saw fit to suggest to the Government that because of his closeness to that area of jurisdiction he ought to be relieved of his responsibilities insofar as academic salaries were concerned. The consequence of that advice has been that, whilst he will retain chairmanship of the Tribunal as it relates to office holders and members of Parliament, he will cease to be  chairman  of that section of the Tribunal which deals with academic salaries. The Government has proposed an amendment to cover the problem. In the light of the obvious need to take him out of that area, where a conflict of interest may arise, the Opposition will not oppose the Bill but will in fact support it. 
The Tribunal, in its last two recommendations to Parliament, concerned itself with the resources available to members of Parliament, not their salaries and allowances. I would be pleased if the Government would encourage that trend. I am sure that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  will recall the numerous occasions upon which he, his predecessor  Senator Withers,  myself and others have raised this question of the resources available to members. Not a great deal of progress was made until the Tribunal, following representations by, as I understand it, all political parties concerning the need for adequate resources to enable members to carry the greater work load which now falls on their shoulders, began to consider the matter. 
One does not have to look very deeply into the problem to realise that those who are in Opposition have a much more difficult task than those who are in Government in dealing with their areas of responsibility. I might note that I do not support the views that  Senator Hamer  expressed. To that extent I am also with the Minister who, I am sure, would concede that, in comparison to Opposition members, he enjoys a much superior position, because he not only has a much more extensive personal staff but behind him the resources of departments on which he may draw in presenting arguments in debate in the Parliament and in the public arena generally. 
It was in the light of our failure to move the Government and the Public Service Board that members of the Parliament from all political parties, singly as well as jointly, recommended to the Tribunal that it concern itself also with the lack of resources available to members. Thus the Tribunal saw fit, in 1977 and again in 1978, to make recommendations thereon. In the first instance these extended some travel rights to staff of members of Parliament, and latterly recommended to the Government that some additional 20 staff members be provided for the shadow ministers so as to remove, at least to some extent, the inequities and imbalance that existed as between shadow ministers and those who hold ministerial portfolios. 
I remind the Government, and in particular the Minister- I am pretty sure that he accepts the point that I make- that sometimes one is in government and at other times one is in opposition. It is quite conceivable that a government might dig in its toes on this question of resources but in a short space of time may well find itself in exactly the position in which the Opposition finds itself today- a position of inequality insofar as resources are concerned. This is particularly onerous in the Senate where Ministers have not only to fulfil their departmental responsibilities but also act on behalf of many other Ministers. The five Ministers in this place have to represent 22 Ministers in the other place. That is an onerous task. How much more onerous is it for those of us who are on this side to cover the same areas of responsibility? 
It was in the light of that situation that we were able to convince the Tribunal that as a first step in improving resources generally for members of Parliament they should be .made available to every shadow minister. I have in mind specifically, of course, the question of research. Having said that, I would hope that the decision of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to cut back from 20 to 10 the number of staff to be made available will be re-examined in the light of the experiences that we have had. I assure the Senate that grave difficulties face members of the Opposition in fulfilling their responsibilities. In fact, five of our shadow ministers are sharing half a research officer. That is not a particularly suitable arrangement. We urge the Government to reconsider its decision. The Public Service Board having refused to move and the former Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  having taken the view that it was not within his province to move either, we took the only step available, that of going to the Tribunal which, on the basis of the evidence, made its decision. Unfortunately at, as I understand it, the direction of the Minister, that decision was set aside and the number of additional staff to be made available was halved. 
The Tribunal has done a very worthwhile job in attending to the salaries, conditions and resources generally of members of Parliament, acting as they do within the constraints of this place and limited, as they are, by the accommodation problems that exist in the Parliamentary precincts. Generally speaking, the Tribunal has carried out its task in a worthwhile fashion. It speaks well for the  Chairman  that he should have drawn to the attention of the Government the fact that, in respect of academic salaries, another  chairman  should be appointed. 
My final point is that some grave difficulties still exist with respect to accommodation for members of parliament. I know that this has been on the agenda for a considerable period. I would hope that during the parliamentary recess the Presiding Officers might conduct an examination of the cramped condition in which members operate and recognise that Parliament House should be substantially for the use of members. When we discussed this on the previous occasion I think I had the agreement of the present Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  and certainly the support of his predecessor,  Senator Withers,  to the concept that members of parliament ought to have first access to the resources ofthe Parliament. When I say that I am talking about the accommodation available in the Parliament. I think the time is long overdue for that to be re-examined by the Presiding Officers so that not only does every member of parliament have an office- this is an objective that has been achieved only in recent times- but also the members of their staff who work in Canberra, particularly the staff of shadow Ministers, have adequate space and resources to work within the Parliament itself. 
I put it to you,  Mr President,  that there are already some glaring examples of over-crowding as a result of the implementation of part of the decision of the Remuneration Tribunal. I would like the Government to look at that. I would also like the Presiding Officers, during the next few months, to examine the problem with a view to trying to come up with some suitable compromise pending the completion of the erection of the new and permanent Parliament House, which is at least a decade off. Having said that, I indicate that the Government has the support of the Opposition in the quick passage of this Bill. 
The purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1978 is to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act which imposes charges on aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services which are provided, operated, financed and maintained by the Federal Government. The purpose of the Bill is to increase the rate of all navigation charges payable by domestic operators by 15 per cent a year, resulting in an increase in revenue of just over $2m in the 1978-79 financial year. It is to take effect from 1 December 1978, that is, in a few days' time. The Bill implements a decision that was announced in the Budget, that is, that air navigation charges would be increased by 15 per cent from 1 December 1978. The Bill also indicates that it will not apply to international airline operators. Generally, the Opposition will not oppose the Bill. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  he indicated that he regarded the Bill as a machinery Bill. The Opposition does not see it as a mere machinery Bill, given the seriousness of the subject in view of the fact that services to aviation for which air navigation charges are payable go to the very foundation and structure of Australian air passenger and air freight services and given the severe impact that increases in air navigation charges have upon the aviation industry. Of course, Opposition members are concerned at the ever increasing costs of air travel in this country. 
When in opposition, this Government, particularly the present Minister for Transport, made great political play of the cost recovery program that was introduced by the Labor Government in the years 1972 to 1975. The real difficulties with cost recovery arose because the conservative Government had written into the two airlines agreement of 1958 a clause providing for full recovery by the Commonwealth of the total cost of facilities that were properly attributable to civil air transport but did nothing in the intervening years to implement that policy. The recovery of costs in 1972-75 which showed the force of the inaction over a number of years by conservative governments was 49.6 per cent. Of course quite a steep increase had to be introduced at that time. However, since this Government came to power at the end of 1975 there has been a cumulative increase of about 52 per cent in air navigation charges, of course showing the hypocrisy of this Government when it criticised us during the period 1972-75 for the steep increase which arose purely because of the inactivity of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. Also in the three years since it has been back in office it has seen fit to increase the charges in excess of those introduced by Labor in 1972-75. 
For example in March 1976 there was a 1 5 per cent increase which was made retrospective to 1 December 1975 for both domestic and international aircraft. Of course, there was no criticism of that retrospective legislation. From 1 December 1976 there was another 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges for domestic and international services. This Bill which will be operative in a little over one week's time provides for an increase of 15 per cent in all domestic services, excluding international airlines. In all, there has been a very great increase of some 52 per cent in air navigation charges in just over three years. This increase, together with increased fuel prices flowing from the Government's decision on import parity pricing, has boosted domestic air fares by some 27 per cent in just over two years. It might reasonably be expected that a further increase in air fares will follow the passage of this Bill. One can anticipate that air fares will rise still further. 
This action is leading to a new problem in that air fares are now reaching an abnormally high place in the structure of Australian air travel and it is pricing air travel beyond the reach of a large segment of the Australian community, much to the disadvantage of people who live in Western Australia, Tasmania, the Northern Territory, north Queensland and country provincial centres. Some reference was made to the problems in provincial centres in the debate yesterday. For these people air travel is a most important form of long distance public passenger transport and one which I suggest the Government ought to examine a little more closely because it is beginning to bite very deeply for those people whose form of transport is largely restricted to air travel. I am sure that the Government would not want to be placed in a position in which people were unable to travel because of increases in costs flowing from government decisions. 
Debate interrupted. 
The costs incurred in providing services to the aviation industry include the costs of the provision of airports and associated terminal and navigational facilities. These basic fundamental costs to domestic and international air services have a strong bearing on the level of air fares. The cost of maintaining civil aviation services and funding the capital invested has to be met by air travel in terms of air fares. If those facilities are used inefficiently or are underutilised then the air travellers have to pay for this inefficiency by way of higher air fares. 
It is a fact that there is no national program whatsoever for airport construction or development in this country. We of the Opposition submit that there is a case for the Government to set out clearly in a program the manner in which it would accept its responsibilities for planning for the future, not planning for a curtailment of services but a program in which people in isolated areas will be able to see some progress being made in extending services instead of restricting them as is at present being done in the interests of cost recovery and reducing costs generally. 
Apparently there has been an investigation of the Air Transport Policy Division of the Department of Transport. I understand the report is very critical of the Department's performance and competence but in the usual way this report has been kept either in the too-hard basket or in the top secret category. We believe that it ought to be made available to the Parliament to enable us to make a proper assessment about the way in which the air transport industry is operating, about the problems that the industry is having and about the manner in which the Parliament should carry out its responsibilities in that respect. But given the way in which the Minister for 
Transport is operating the air transport industry, we certainly have drawn the conclusion that the way in which he makes decisions from one day to another is rather ad hoc. Because there is in fact no long term planning we believe this is to the detriment of the industry itself. However, as I have indicated, the Opposition, having noted that the Government is in fact carrying into effect policies which the Labor Party introduced in 1972 when it was in office and continued right through to 1 975, will not oppose the legislation. 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled. 
This petition of citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth that 
. Australia 's Aboriginal and Islander peoples have not been compensated for the loss of their traditional land, social and cultural independence and self-respect. 
Australia lags behind other nations with white majorities in providing a Treaty of Commitment to its indigenous peoples giving them 
* a defined proportion of national income for a defined period 
* freehold title to traditional land, waterways and seaboards, 
* control over related resources and over the introduction of alcohol and other alien cultural influences in their regions. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take urgent steps to concur with the wishes of a majority of electors at every polling booth in Australia at the 1967 referendum by resumption from the States of the major traditional Aboriginal land areas and reserves and former reserves as at 3 1.3.78, to become federal Crown land pending prompt determination of freehold title for Land Trusts and eventually for defined community co-operatives. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The purpose of the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Amendment Bill 1978 is to amend the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Act 1978 which was passed earlier this year. That Act authorised the Treasurer on behalf of the Commonwealth to guarantee overseas borrowings by Qantas to the extent of $US80m or its equivalent to finance the purchase of two Boeing 747 series aircraft. Qantas then sought the Treasurer's guarantee for a borrowing of $US80m under the provisions of that Act. However, circumstances intervened and Qantas was unfortunately not able to finalise the terms of that borrowing before taking delivery of the aircraft. As luck would have it, Qantas in its inimitable style was able to make temporary arrangements from its own funds which had been earmarked for other purposes but which were at that dme temporarily available. Qantas used these funds to make the payments owing on the aircraft in anticipation of the funds being recouped in due course from the proceeds of the original $US80m loan which it was then negotiating. 
I think that it is worth while digressing for a moment to pay tribute to the excellent work that Qantas is carrying out on behalf of the Australian people and the Australian Government. It is a very well established airline which has been recognised all over the world as being a first class airline, and it does yeoman service on behalf of the Australian people. When one of its principal adversaries,  Mr Laker,  sees fit to pay tribute to Qantas, it is worth while the Parliament noting that tribute. However, there is some legal doubt as to whether section 4 ( 1 ) (a) of the Act as originally drafted provides for the giving of a guarantee in the circumstances which I have outlined. Thus the Bill seeks to amend the original Act to put the question beyond any doubt. 
In passing one might mention the apparent incongruity of the situation in which an enterprise purchases certain goods without having at the time completed arrangements for the borrowing of funds for that purpose. We have to accept that the arrangements that Qantas entered into were made in good faith, but it is worth while hoping that those sorts of circumstances will not develop in the future. The Opposition will not oppose the Bill because we recognise that the prevailing circumstances were beyond the capacity of Qantas to comprehend at the time. 
I intended to talk specifically about the dilemma that must obviously face Qantas as an instrumentality and as our national airline and about the confusion that exists, I am sure even in this Parliament, about the various statements that have been made by those in the industry, and particularly by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  about what has happened with international air fares. But suffice to say that just to draw attention to it would probably satisfy my concern at this stage. I appreciate that whilst we want to say many things we are acting under a certain amount of constraint, particularly this evening, having regard to some of the previous debates that have taken place. In the interests of brevity and of expediting the work of the Parliament, and recognising that whilst we deplore the situation that always seems to happen at the end of every session, the Opposition will be content to make the point that we hope that in the intervening break a tired Minister for Transport might clarify the position about international air fares. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I appreciate the fact that she has difficulty in answering some of these questions, but my question refers to an apparent conflict of interest. Did  Mr Beadman  the Minister's Acting Senior Private Secretary, in correspondence dated 2 November 1976, to  Mr Daly  of the architectural firm of Terence Daly and Loffi, state that the Aboriginal Housing Panel would be in the best position to advise Aboriginal communities of the housing proposals offered by that firm? Did the Minister instruct  Mr Stern,  the director of Aboriginal housing programming within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, to supply Stawell Timber Industries with the names and addresses of all Aboriginal communities and housing associations to permit the firm to contact the communities and associations direct with its particular housing proposal? Why was the different method of contact directed, thus giving Stawell Timber Industries preferential treatment in being able to contact the client direct, while this was denied to Terence Daly and Loffi? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Did an officer of the Rhodesian Army, LieutenantColonel Leaver, visit Australia recently. 
Was Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver actively campaigning in support of the illegal regime of  Mr Ian  Smith. 
Did Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver have discussions with the Minister for Defence  Mr Killen;  if so, why. 
Did the officer also have discussion with the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
Did Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver seek interviews on This Day Tonight and other Australian Broadcasting Commission current affairs programs; if so, was this a breach of his condition of entry. 
Did Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver indicate in his application for a visitor's visa that he was resident in Rhodesia. 
On what nationality passport was he travelling. 
8 ) What steps were taken to ' screen ' him. 
How many other Rhodesians have been granted entry to Australia, under conditions similar to those required of Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver, from October 1977 to September 1978. 
10) What steps has the Government taken to ensure that visits similar to that of Lieutenant-Colonel Leaver do not occur in the future. 
What steps has the Government taken to ensure that affirmations by prospective visitors are verified prior to entry, and adhered to after entry. 
-I join with those honourable senators who have spoken to pay tribute to Ellis Lawrie. After I came into the Senate, in due course I was elected as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. I came to know Ellis Lawrie very intimately in the activities of that Committee because one might say that we were handed a hot potato in dealing with the fairly emotional issues that grew up at that time concerning estate duty. I came to appreciate the quality of Ellis Lawrie as  Chairman  of that Committee. Subsequently, with a change of government, I succeeded him in that position. I think the most important part of the processes of that Committee was the manner in which Ellis Lawrie sought to reach some measure of agreement between members of the Committee. In those circumstances I learned a little about the man and about the way in which he approached his obligations as a member of this Senate. 
I think that he possessed a rare quality insofar as, whilst he was a member of a political party, he gave some recognition to the rights of others to present a point of view. He did all in his power to make sure that the Committee considered all aspects of death duties and the other matters that had been referred to it. He was a very tolerant person. He was a very tolerant Chairman and subsequently a very tolerant rank and file member of that Committee. He showed a degree of compassion which so often is lacking in this place. Of course, even in this place he showed a degree of fairness in debate. I think it must be said that he never indulged in personalities. I would have to concede that he was a good party man. Nevertheless he was prepared to debate the issue rather than the personalities and to that degree he will be sadly missed. One thing that I had in common with him was that we were both members of local government. That might have meant that we had a bond that extended across party lines. 
I endorse what has been said by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Senator Webster),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  I think we are poorer when people such as former  Senator Lawrie  leave this place. Now that he has passed on the least we can do is to pay tribute to his work in this place with regard to his public duties and to express on behalf of each side of the chamber a feeling of deep loss at his passing. I extend to his family my condolences on the loss of a person who faithfully served this chamber, this Parliament and also his party. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, but it may well relate to the period when he was in fact the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a statement made by the Prime Minister on 1 October 1976 which sets out the present Government's purchasing policy and I specifically draw the Minister's attention to the direction given by the Prime Minister that Australian firms be given every opportunity to do business with the Federal Government. Did the Government take this stand in the interests of employment opportunities in Australia? Has the Government's policy on these matters changed in recent times? If it has not, can the Minister advise the Senate why the official Senate diary for 1979 was printed in Hong Kong, whether Australian firms were given the opportunity to print the diary, whether the Government's own printing service was given the opportunity to quote and what were the circumstances that led to the decision to print official government publications in a foreign country? Further, is it contemplated that other government publications similarly will be printed in cheap labour countries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Has the Government given any consideration to the recent recommendation by the Prices Justification Tribunal that it be given the power to establish facilities for monitoring commercial prices in the private sector, and commercial prices charged by statutory bodies; if so, will the Government also take into account the need for the examination of activities which cause higher prices to the consumers, and the value of objective reporting on costs, productivity, prices, sales and profits by such a Government Agency. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
At end of motton, add 'but, the Senate is of the opinion, that: 
the Government should be severely criticised for reducing the amounts made available to the States for upgrading of urban public transport in 1978-79 by $20m and in 1979-80 by $5m. 
this reduction in funds to the States will seriously disrupt the provision of improved transport facilities, and 
this action of the Government is inconsistent with the development of urban public transport as an essential part of a responsible national energy policy for Australia'. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  stated that this Bill will modify the existing legislation which was passed in 1978, and in which the Government agreed to provide sums of money to the States for improvement of urban transport generally. That legislation was passed by the Parliament even though it did not match the promises that had been made by the Government at the time of the 1975 and 1977 elections, where it is on record that the Minister for Transport had, in fact, agreed to provide a very substantial sum of money- something like $300m- over a five year period for the purpose of putting into effect the Government's policy. Of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech pledged to assist the States to modernise their public transport systems. He stated that the Federal Government would be happy to assist State governments to provide car parking at suburban public transport terminals to encourage increased patronage of such services. 
In the policy speech the Prime Minister went on to say that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would encourage the States in the development of a rapid transport system. So not only did the 1978 legislation not put into effect the promises that were made by the Government in 1977, but also now the Parliament is being asked to modify the modified version of the Government's policy which was presented for Parliamentary approval in 1978. In so doing it is reducing the sum of $25m, allegedly- to use the words of the Minister- in the light of wider budget considerations. Of course, that opens a real Pandora's box as far as this Government's general approach to the economy is concerned. I think we ought to reflect upon the fact that it is just as well we did not have Fraser-type governments in the 19th and 20th centuries when it was essential to establish a public transport rail system in our country, else we might never have been able to move from Sydney to Melbourne or from Sydney to Bathurst, Wagga Wagga, Broken Hill and other major centres. If governments of that day had taken the short-sighted approach that has been taken by this Government since it has come to office then we would never have built our transport infrastructure which has played such an important and significant part in the development of our industries and of our economy in the last 100 years or so. 
The period of great growth in this country can be shown in different epochs, whether it be the latter part of the last century, the early part of this century, after World War I and in particular in the period after World War II when Australia's population almost doubled because of migration and other factors. Of course, it is relevant to point to the fact that we can see that in the process of that growth there has been a decay, a decline, a deterioration in the whole urban public transport system. Contrary to what this Government is doing, it ought to be spending and allocating the sort of money to which it committed itself, through its Minister for Transport and its Leader, in both the 1975 and 1977 elections. It is no wonder that the Australian people are losing faith in political parties and in governments when election promises can be broken so glibly as though they have no value. Within a year- within a matter of months- we find the Government bringing in a further Bill which amends a Budget consideration, endorsed by the Parliament after consultation with State Ministers for Transport, and which seeks to spread the money over a longer period of time and, in fact, on a yearly basis reduces the amount of money. Of course, this flies in the face of all the experiences of anybody concerned with sociology, demography and the proper development of balanced economic growth. It ought to be understood- although it is not by this 
Government- that an urban public transport system is an integral part of any growth and development program, particularly as it is related to urban growth. 
In the post-war years we have seen a tremendous development of our major cities and of our urban areas. As all planners will say, and as all people who concern themselves with urban matters will say, an urban transport system is the very hub, the very focal point, and the very link between all that happens in a modern community, whether it be industrial or commercial activity. The success achieved in the movement of people, goods and services and in the matters of education and leisure depends upon a proper functioning urban public transport system. It was in recognition of this fact that the Whitlam Labor Government, when introducing its legislation in 1973 for the very first time, allocated $500m, at 1973 values, over five years, with compensatory escalation provisions to maintain the basic purchasing power of original grants. So, whatever the inflation rate, whatever the value of money, the Whitlam Government for the first time in the history of Australia accepted proper responsibility in respect of the urban transport system. 
It is not often that credit is given. Certainly none has been given in this place by members of this Government to these important steps which were taken in the Whitlam period. However, at least there is on the public record a Press release which was issued by  Mr Milton  Morris, the Liberal Party Minister for Transport in the New South Wales coalition Government. That Press release dated 19 February 1973 reads: 
The important thing is that the public transport system of Sydney will be transformed and I give full marks to the Federal Transport Minister,  Mr Jones,  for the part he has played. He is the first Federal Transport Minister in the history of Australia to have obtained Commonwealth assistance for public transport: 
When we read all of the debates which have taken place in the intervening years, we find that no recognition is given to this pioneering work of the Labor Government in developing for the first time, a national conscientiousness and a national concept of the need for the Federal Government to become involved in upgrading and improving our urban transport system. 
Of course, we are contrasting the action of a Labor government with the inability of a conservative government to put into effect its own policy and program. The present Government said in one of its official documents: 
In 1 978-79 we will expand existing programs to provide a total of $60m annually for the next five years to improve urban public  transport 
We will also undertake a five year program to upgrade critical sections of the national railway network. 
But what is happening? This piece of legislation to which the Senate is asked to consent will in fact reduce further the allocation of funds, reduced as they were in comparison with what was promised in 1977. All of this is done in the mistaken belief that by spending such public funds the Government would be contributing to some sort of decline in Australia's economic situation. Of course, that epitomises the approach which has been taken by conservative governments in the post-war years, namely, that the private sector should be given unfettered rights to funds and resources in this country. In fact, the record of the dismal Menzies epoch- those long 23 years- shows that public transport, public education, public health and public services generally in Australia deteriorated to a marked degree. It was not until the late 1950s that the parents and teachers in the various States took up the cudgels and agitated to such an extent that finally even  Mr Menzies  was forced to take cognisance of the change in the public opinion and to begin to accept some responsibility for Federal funding for education. 
Nothing was done about public transport until 1973, despite all the activities by the railway unions and by State governments of all political complexions. I give credit to both the Labor Government in New South Wales and the Liberal Government in Victoria which raised very sharply with the conservative national Government which was in power prior to 1972 the need for the Commonwealth to become involved in the herculean task of making funds available to improve our urban public transport system. No member of this Senate can travel throughout Australia and not be ashamed of the neglected state of our urban transport system in every State, no matter what the political complexion of the State government. The same neglect would be found in Queensland after long years of conservative government as would be found in Tasmania after long years of Labor government. I remember during an election campaign visiting the railway workshops in Launceston and being ashamed of the fact that public facilities had been allowed to deteriorate to the extent to which they had. 
As we all know, public transport has become the principle cost factor in all State Budgets. It is the area that costs the States most money. The resources of the six individual States are insufficient to finance the sort of modernisation and improvement needed in urban transport systems. It was the recognition of this fact that prompted the Whitlam Labor Government, in its perception of what the needs were for urban transport in this country, to make $500m available over a period of five years. The Whitlam Government considered it its responsibility and obligation to recognise all the areas of neglect that existed throughout the public sector in Australia. We make no apologies for the fact that the Whitlam Government allocated funds and gave encouragement to the State governments so that public services throughout Australia could be provided in order to improve the living conditions of people in the major cities. We recognised that 87 per cent of the Australian population lived in the urban environment. It was the Whitlam Government's intention to make improvements, whether it be to the sewerage program, to education, or, as in this particular case, to the urban public transport system. 
It was in pursuit of that sort of objective that we changed the face of Federal-State financial relationships. We made large sums of money available to the States in order that they could improve their public facilities and, as in this case, to improve public transport. We were traduced and we were criticised. We were maligned by people in this place and by the leaders of the private sector, who dominate the whole of our economy. They said we were bringing about a better allocation of resources in this country. We make no apologies for that, because the present Government in its policies has pledged itself to make the necessary changes and to allocate the necessary funds to bring about the objectives which the Whitlam Government had set itself. In pursuance of that objective certainly we came into a deficit situation. But it is suggested that by the spending of money on urban public transport, on building schools, on building better hospitals or better sewerage schemes or even housing the Government was going bankrupt. Providing permanent public facilities is the sort of business acumen in which the private sector engages. 
Indeed, as  Sir William  McMahon and William Wentworth have said from time to time, we were providing assets. Correcting the deficit was only a matter of making an adjustment to a financial arrangement between income and expenditure. If, in fact, assets were being provided for the Australian people, it should not be regarded as a deficit. In a previous debate, we heard even  Senator Messner, Senator Lewis  and others talk about the dreadful deficit that we had when we were in government as a result of providing money to improve the living conditions of the people in our cities, suburbs and country towns. 
We criticise this Government because it believes that by not providing this sort of money it is going to solve the malaise that exists in the economy of this country. It says that it is because we placed great emphasis on public works and public sector expenditure that we are in this awful mess with the economy. 
What is the comparable position about public sector expenditure in respect of the gross domestic product? Are these factors that can be borne out by comparisons with other countries? For example, in 1 970 we in Australia were spending on the public sector only 24 per cent of our national income, which figure was lifted to 32 per cent when the Labor Party was in office at the end of 1975. Let us look at a comparison with other countries whose transport systems leave ours for dead, are modern, run on time and are clean and efficient and whose public services generally would leave ours for dead. In a whole range of activities the people of Europe are able to enjoy decent community facilities. Canada spends 39.4 per cent of its gross domestic product in the public sector. West Germany spends 44 per cent. I had the opportunity to visit that country last year, to travel on its trains, and to see the improved conditions that people are able to enjoy in that country's public transport system. In the Netherlands the figure is 53.9 per cent, which is almost double what we were spending in about 1973. In Sweden the figure is 51.7 per cent and in the United Kingdom it is 44.5 per cent. In the heartland of capitalism, the United States of America, the place of the big corporations where the private sector is so sacrosanct that one is not even allowed to think about the public sector, 35.1 per cent of the gross domestic product is spent in the public sector. Yet in 1975, the peak year of the Labor Government, we were spending only 32 per cent. 
I wager that as a result of the inadequate policies of this Government that 32 per cent has dropped, because this Government is wedded to a concept that all it has to do is leave everything to the private sector and everything will come good. That, of course, is one of the great myths of the thinking of not only this Government but also those who control the media and try to develop the consciousness of the Australian people to support that point of view. Of course, it is a fallacy. It will not work. The private sector is concerned only with maximising its profit. Wherever it can make investments, whether it be in Singapore, Taiwan, the United States or in any of our own cities, it will concern itself with the objective because that is what it believes in. It ill becomes a government charged with the responsibility of a balanced development of a country to take the view that the public sector has to be reduced to the paucity it was in during those dim and dark days of the 1950s and 1960s when public sector activity virtually stood still. This Government has ignored the fact that planning means that when cities develop and grow, it is an essential part of that growth that there be an adequate public transport system. The Government's own political documents, its own programs, pay tribute to the fact that one must have an improvement in the public transport system. We have this absurd position of workers now living at such distances from their place of work that it takes them an hour and a half or two hours to travel there from their place of residence. It is not within the province of the State instrumentalities to do anything to improve that system to any marked extent because of the tremendous costs involved and because, as I said earlier, of the great brake that transport places on State finances. 
In pursuit of a wider budgetary consideration the Budget strategy makes urban public transport another casualty, just as Medibank and reduced taxes have been a casualty. Interest charges have risen; they are another casualty of the Budget. Another casualty is the minor credit squeeze which, it seems, was reported in the news this evening. Promises were made so glibly by this Government in relation to a whole variety of taxes which it said were going to come down; but we know that they have gone up. Interest rates were going to go down; they are now rising. We know that inflation is continuing to go up and not down. Whether it be in respect of public housing or public urban transport, funds are being decreased and decreased to a point where they lose their significance in respect of any capacity of a State government to plan for any improvement in its urban transport system. 
Of course, as we know, this is an issue with the Australian people. It has been proved to be an issue in the last two elections in New South Wales. I do not know whether  Senator Peter  Baume is smiling at my reference, but he must surely recognise that one of the features of  Mr Wran's  victories in the last two elections in the State has been his determination to improve the urban public transport system as far as the available money would allow. In fact a great deal has been done, at the expense unfortunately of other public activities and responsibilities, to improve the urban public transport system. It was in recognition of that need for improvements in urban transport that seats were won in the election before last in the key areas of Gosford and the Blue Mountains, which brought about the defeat of the conservative government. Because we in New South Wales have persisted with our responsibilities to improve the system as far as is practicable with Federal and State funds, some significant improvement has taken place in New South Wales. I can talk about the situation in the other States, including South Australia, where there is great disquiet as a result of the Commonwealth 's attitude in respect of the transport system there. The State having handed part of it over, the Commonwealth now is applying the squeeze and, of course, the same problem has developed - 
That is right. It is an indictment of this Government that it should follow so glibly and so blindly the false premise that all it has to do is reduce public sector spending and the whole economy will be back on an even keel. In fact if it studies the experiences of other countries it will see that that is not borne out at all. In Japan, the countries of Europe and other modern and industrialised countries there has been an improvement in the urban public transport systems as a result of a national government accepting its responsibilities. We make no secret about and are not ashamed of the fact that we have moved an amendment condemning this Government for again attempting to modify and reduce the amount of funds available for urban public transport. We would hope that honourable senators opposite might give some mature consideration to our point of view or at least have the courage to stand up and say what the Government is endeavouring to do in respect of this Bill and so many other money Bills we have been concerned with in recent times and justify the drastic cutback in public sector spending. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that Bankcard collects $6m a month interest on a total investment of only $8m? I am sure he will concede that that is a pretty fair return on capital funds invested. In those circumstances, does the Government consider it fair that consumers, on buying defective goods- a growing problem requiring much hassle with both the producer and the distributor- are still forced to pay Bankcard, even when it is established that there has been unsatisfactory service? Is it not a fact that in Britain and the United States credit card laws protect the consumer in those circumstances? I therefore ask: Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has contemplated legislation that would thoroughly protect the consumers when such conflicts occur? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, follows from the question asked of him by  Senator Baume.  Is it not a fact that the Commonwealth Police generally are seriously understaffed and that the Department of Administrative Services is deliberately not filling vacancies because of the proposed merger of the Commonwealth Police with the Australian Capital Territory Police? Is it not a fact that plainclothes police are often withdrawn from their protection duties in order to engage in activities of a surveillance nature, particularly those related to the Department of Social Security? Further, is the Government aware that the consequences of these processes are that Commonwealth properties, embassies and airports, et cetera, are often not properly protected, making a mockery of the Government's professed concern about security? 
Because my question deals with a variety of issues I direct it to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister aware of the report assembled by  Dr J.  N. Santamaria of Melbourne's St Vincent's Hospital which reveals that Australia now leads the English-speaking world in per capita alcohol consumption? Is the Minister aware that the latest available figures show that the average expenditure on beer, spirits and wine now totals 16 per cent of all retail sales, exceeding spending on meat, medicines and electrical appliances, and represents a 13 per cent increase in beer drinking and a 29 per cent increase in wine drinking a year? Does the Government see any connection with the growth in alcohol advertising in the mass media aimed especially at young people? Does the Government deem it necessary to take any steps to place such advertising under responsible guidelines, or is the Government content to let consumers remain fair game for alcohol manufacturers and distributors, restricted only by the illusory guidelines of advertising self-regulation? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to  Senator Guilfoyle  both as Minister for Social Security and as Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of reports on a national television show,  Nationwide,  on 26 February 1979, to the effect that Australian medical consumers are being subjected to more doses of X-rays than are good for them? Is the Minister aware that a senior researcher at a major hospital has said that up to 50 per cent of medical X-rays may be unnecessary? Finally, is the Minister aware that the Doctors Reform Society says that the situation is so serious that an immediate official investigation is necessary? What steps has the Minister taken, or will the Minister take, to establish such an investigation, or at least to establish the need for it, in order to protect medical consumers, as well as to have regard to the financial implications of the issue so raised? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
We welcome the statement made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and presented in this place by his colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  but we want to consider it in the context of the history of this whole issue of cheap air fares, recognising as we do that Australia is located in an isolated part of the world, that it is a country with a reasonably high standard of living and that great difficulties flow from that isolation as far as the movement of Australians is concerned. As is so often the case with statements made by Ministers, this statement can be placed in the category of being a statement of self adulation because this statement seeks to justify the Government's reluctance to face up to its responsibilities concerning cheap air fares for overseas travel. 
Actually, the Government has been dragged reluctantly into the whole reduced air fares issue. During 1978 tremendous public concern was expressed about the level of fares for travel outside Australia and now concern is continuing to be expressed about the high level of domestic air fares in our country. I find it somewhat hypocritical that the Government should talk about cheaper air fares for consumers when in fact we have lost a whole tourist season as a result of the Government's procrastinations. Cheaper air fares were not an initiative on our part. In fact, we dragged the chain and came to the party very late and in such a way as to disadvantage completely a considerable number of Australians who were attracted to the concept of cheap air fares. 
The statement must be seen as a prelude to  Mr Nixon  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Peacock,  attending a ministerial meeting with Association of South East Asian Nations member countries in Jakarta next week. It is interesting that our Ministers are attending the meeting at the invitation of the ASEAN countries. We should ask why this is so. We should thank ASEAN for at least getting our two Ministers to a negotiating position because, if that invitation had not been extended, there would probably have been no ministerial statement. 
My colleague in the other place, the shadow Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Shortland,  Mr Morris,  described this issue as a saga of incompetence and indicated that if an invitation had not been extended to Australia for it to be represented at Jakarta we would not have Ministers attending that meeting, nor would the sorts of decisions that we have been forced to make in recent times have been made. So let us hope that Messrs Peacock and Nixon will discuss their attitudes on the flight to Jakarta. By all appearances, they have not previously had such a discussion. Let us look at the record. Firstly,  Mr Nixon  has alienated the ASEAN countries and has endangered valuable economic links that we have with our closest geographical neighbours. We have alienated Holland, a member of the European Economic Community, at a time when our Government allegedly is interested in establishing closer economic links with the EEC countries. We certainly have alienated New Zealand, our closest neighbour and an important trading partner, a country with which we have had and should maintain the closest links. 
We are entitled to ask why these sorts of problems have existed. Clearly they result from a lack of communication between  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Peacock  on their respective areas of responsibility.  Mr Nixon  is not a diplomat, to put it mildly, and has not been shown to be very competent at high level consultations with the diplomatic service, with the Department of Foreign Affairs or with  Mr Peacock.  But that is typical of this Government. For example, we have just learned that the Minister for Finance,  Mr Eric  Robinson, is said not to have spoken to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for four months. How can policies be made in that way? Have we had that sort of sulking by those other two Ministers? We are entitled to know how long it is since  Mr Peacock  and  Mr Nixon  have spoken. We know that it must be difficult for them to speak because  Mr Fraser  keeps  Mr Peacock  out of the country for great lengths of time. 
We have seen the result of this impasse in the lack of communication and in  Mr Nixon's  amateurish attempts to determine foreign policy. In case honourable senators have any doubts about that, I shall read into the record a section of an editorial in the  Singapore Straits Times  of 14 December last year, which talks of Nixon's double talk. I am not talking about the former 
American President; I am talking about our own Minister for Transport. The editorial stated: 

 Mr Peter Nixon's thinlyveiled attack on the Singapore aviation authorities, and not the press as he purported, must rank as a masterpiece of double deception. It started out as an attempt to swing public attention away from the principal issues in the air talks, but in the end, he deceived only himself by believing his own words. Suffice to say that under all the honey  Mr Nixon  oozed, his intentions bore no goodwill to Singapore. 
His statement was full of contradictions. He implied his new policy would do no harm to countries like Singapore. Then, he admitted he had considered and rejected other options which (in his own words) would have been even more harmful to  Sinapore 
In his statement, he maintained no threats were made to Singapore. Yet, by his own admission his team of negotiators had made it clear to Singapore that Canberra could have taken steps more deleterious to the Republic. And those steps can still be taken if Singapore refuses to fall in line. 

 Mr Nixon had skirted several major issues. He insisted travellers can still make stopovers, and he does not intend to raise fares for those who do stop over. But he had avoided the specific cost of stopping over relative to flying direct. 
If his proposals were carried out, the additional cost of stopping over would be abortive for many. Let  Mr Nixon  explain why it is necessary to raise the cost travellers have to pay to make an additional stop. 
Why not cut all fares uniformly so travellers will have to pay much less even if they choose to break their journey back to Australia. That would be the best for Australians themselves. 
The Minister also justifies excluding other carriers from the fare cuts. Is it not blatant protectionism that with his new scheme, the traveller between London and Australia can fly economically only by Qantas or British Airways? People in Singapore might become unnecessarily alarmed,  Mr Nixon  said. 
If Singaporeans do in fact become alarmed, then it might be argued the alarm has been caused not by  misreporting  but by the inexact and insensitive information from the Transport Minister himself. 
With so much at stake, the least he can do is to place his cards on the table and call a spade by its proper name. 
So it is clear that  Mr Nixon  has not been diplomatic and that Singapore holds and maintains the view that he has not even been honest. What a state to which to reduce Australia's foreign policy. What a mess to create in an attempt to try to achieve a very simple and proper objective- that is, the reduction of air fares. But is the saga of incompetence over? lt is not by any means over. When  Mr Nixon  starts talking sensibly with Asia, he will find out. 
What about Australia's domestic consumers and their interest? As I have said, we welcome the reduced international fares. Obviously the public also welcomes this reduction. Of course, the report acknowledges the overwhelming response in this respect. But the questions to be asked include: Why such a long delay? Why were consumers kept waiting for so long? Of course there is now a flood of applications to take advantage of the new air fares. Even though consumers have to book in advance, even though they have to buy insurance in case they change their plans, even though they lose interest on the money that they pay in advance, even though they lose flexibility- and they are the lossesthere is still a flood because consumers are looking for cheaper fares. However, the fare reductions were overdue because of bungling and incompetence. 
It is clear from  Mr Nixon's  figures that there are more Australians going out than tourists coming in. On  Mr Nixon's  figures at page seven of the report, 13 per cent more people will go out than will come in. What will that do to Australia's balance of payments? Of course, the curly question is: What about domestic flights? The position now is that it is cheaper to fly to Honolulu or even to San Francisco than it is to fly from Sydney to Perth. It is now almost cheaper to fly to Perth via London. One has to ask the question: Why are we still procrastinating in respect of domestic air fares? When the fares are negotiated with New Zealand it will be cheaper to fly from Sydney to Auckland than to fly from Sydney to Melbourne. One is surely entitled to ask the question: Does not the Government want Australians to see Australia first? 
If it has taken many years of bungling to get cheaper international air fares, how long do we have to wait for cheaper domestic fares? Do we have to wait until 1980 or 1990? Thank heavens this Government will be long gone before then. The price of domestic air fares is out of the reach of the ordinary Australian citizen. Surely there must be concern generally in the Australian community and in the Government parties themselves about the tremendous cost of fares in Australia. Why do we have to wait until international pressure is put on us before in fact we approach this question of cheaper domestic air fares? For many Australians, if not for most Australians, interstate flights are an impossibility. People who want to visit relatives or to go on holidays are not able to do so. It is because domestic fares are so high that demand is low. It follows that, because demand is low, domestic fares continue to rise. The interests of the domestic consumer are placed last every time and this is quite consistent with other government policy. 
I think it is worth looking at the economics of some companies which generally speaking, have been able to increase profitability as a result of Government policy. In this respect I refer not only to the airlines but also to the private sector of our economy. We should look at the half dozen or so companies upon which this Government's policies are based. Look at the increased profitability of the companies as expressed in our newspapers in the last few weeks. The Bank of New South Wales has increased its profit by 37 per cent; Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd has increased its profit by 53 per cent; Burns Philp and Co. Ltd has achieved a 46 per cent profit increase; the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has increased profits by 55 per cent or $ 161m; Woolworths Ltd has had an increase in profit of $29.6m; the profit of Email Ltd has increased by 32.6 per cent; and the Nylex Corporation Ltd has increased profit by 48.4 per cent. 
What is the position of consumers? They are missing out in the market place as they have been missing out in the air fare area, whether overseas or domestic. Neither their interests nor their opinions are considered. This Government has already rejected requests made by the Opposition both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate for consumer representation on matters affecting domestic airline policies and air fares. I think that we can surely see the need for such representation because in fact there is a greater need for it today than ever before. Perhaps the Government will see the obvious need for this now that we have compared what has happened internationally with what has not happened in the national sense. Of course, the Government might see this if  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Peacock  are talking and if perhaps  Mr Fraser  is talking to  Mr Eric  Robinson and if  Mr Peacock  and  Mr Fraser  talk to  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Eric  Robinson. Perhaps it is the lack of communication that has got us into this somewhat unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
International air fares are slowly coming right and we welcome this development. However, we deplore the length of time and the saga of incompetence that has characterised this whole episode during 1978-79. What has transpired has threatened our foreign affairs interests and has frustrated our domestic consumers. Domestic air fares are clearly wrong and clearly too high. We can only hope that it will not be too long before the Government bites the bullet and takes on the challenge of reducing domestic air fares in the same way as the New South Wales Government has been able to reduce fares in its public transport system, thereby attracting people to use that system. Similarly that sort of emphasis is needed in our domestic airline industry. We should not have a situation in which domestic aircraft are only half full of passengers because of the high cost structure which renders people unable to afford to use air services. It seems to us that the Government has a big responsibility to take some very energetic steps to reduce domestic air fares in line with the reduced overseas fares. If the Government is not able to do this, it ought to say so to the Australian people; it ought to say so to the Parliament and not present a report which indicates that all is rosy, that there is nothing wrong with its policies and in fact - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order! Two hours having lapsed from the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate, pursuant to Standing Order 127 1 call on the business of the day. 
I was making my concluding remarks on this matter. All we were suggesting was that the style in which this Government operates leaves very much to be desired. The question of air fares has been a vexed one. It has been one on which there has been much public concern and comment. It  is  also affecting the tourist industry. In fact, I know of no section of the Australian community that has not expressed in some way its concern about the Government's reluctance to tackle the problems of air fares in Australia, both domestic and international. I think that the time has arrived for the Government to put less emphasis on painting rosy pictures in its report. In fact, it should admit that it has been unable to face up to its responsibilities and has failed to provide Australians with the sort of fare structures which would enable some resurgence to occur in our tourist industry, whether it be for those people who wish to travel outside Australia or those people who want to use the tourist facilities in their own country. 
The Senate is debating the document entitled 'The Geo-Political Situation: A Pattern of Instability'. I imagined that the Government would state its position much more clearly than it has done in this document, which I can only describe as being somewhat pious, superficial and unreal in view of the world scene today. The only positive remark that can be made about the document is that, for the first time in living memory, it lacks any belligerance, which was a feature of most foreign affairs documents presented in the Parliament by conservative governments in the 1930s, 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. The document contains a resume of rhetorical statements and platitudes to which we have heard most Government speakers make reference in their remarks about achieving human rights, peace and stability. In fact, these sentiments mean nothing unless they are understood in the Parliament and in the Australian community. 
It seems to me that the mere mention of the words 'a pattern of instability' conveys the impression that we have a somewhat new situation. It is new insofar as two friends, or maybe three or four friends, have fallen out; but that is not unusual in international affairs. As we know, the history of Western civilisation shows a pattern of friends falling out almost since there was any cognition of Western civilisation. Therefore, I do not get any consolation from the use of these words and statements which really have little relevance to the problems in the Asian region.  Senator Sheil  gave us an interesting historical account of what had taken place in the colonies, particularly in the African situation of which he claims to have some knowledge. Of course, the most important point about the document and about the contribution made by  Senator Sheil  was that since man gained more mobility and so was able to assert himself and the interests of his country- the word 'imperialism' developed during the early period of the last thousand years but more particularly from the actions of the Portuguese, the Spanish and the other colonisers- we have seen the emergence of countries, governments, dictatorships and feudal states which only in the current period of political history are beginning to be put into some proper perspective. 
I agree considerably with the statement that was made by Arthur Schlesinger Jnr, who is one of the more far-sighted American exponents of reality in world affairs. He said recently: 
Will we never understand that nationalism is the most potent political emotion of our age? 
If we accept that statement as having any substance at all- I think we must, although this document fails to deal with the matter- we ought to have some regard for what has been the pattern of development in this century and more particularly in the period since the end of World War II. We must understand that this is what is happening in the former colonies, whether they be in Africa, the Middle East, Asia or even Latin America. The determination of the people in those countries is to win for themselves the very things that we take for granted; that is, selfdetermination, democracy, a decent sharing of wealth and living in peace within their nation and with other nations. Because we have failed to understand this fact and live with it, we have seen ourselves involved in numerous incursions, wars and difficulties, particularly in the post-war years. 
It seems to me that the first break in this respect- it is relevant to the struggles that are engulfing our region at the moment- took place during the Russian revolution of 1917. It was an attempt by the people to establish some control over their lives. It is not for me to debate whether they succeeded in that process. My remarks relate to what  Senator Chipp  and other honourable senators have said in the debate. This document completely ignores the fact that the Western powers then set about creating the sort of conditions that were referred to by  Senator Chipp.  A paranoid fear accompanies the whole subsequent development of the social system associated with that revolution in 1917. After all, the wars of intervention cost the Russian people very dearly. Also, the fear of encirclement brought about in their approach to politics, and perhaps even in their interpretation of the political system with which they were associated, the belief that they had to look after their own interests. 
As has been said by so many people, when a point of conflict arises, whether it be in a war of words or in the wars on the battlefields, the first casualty is truth. That has been symptomatic of the sort of problems that we have seen in foreign affairs, certainly in my lifetime. I wish to quote a statement made by another eminent American, George Washington. He observed that it was a maxim founded on the universal experience of mankind that no nation is to be trusted farther than it is bound by its interests'. The force of the way in which we reacted to that change in 1917 built up a chain of events and a process which has moulded the foreign policy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in subsequent years. This was borne out, was it not, in World War II when the greatest might that has ever been unleashed in a world war was directed against the Soviet Union by the forces of nazi Germany? It was only the united efforts of the Western powers as well as the USSR that defeated that attempt to turn the clock back perhaps a thousand years. 
Time does not permit me to deal with every other incident that has taken place in foreign affairs since then, but a somewhat similar situation developed in the Chinese revolution, which was consummated in 1949 when the Chinese people liberated their country from the forces of Chiang Kai-shek, who had at certain stages of that country's history collaborated with the Japanese in defence of the feudal system that operated there. What did we do? What did the West do? For the next 25 years at least the West set about the isolation of the People's Republic of China in exactly the same way as the West had treated the emergence of the state known as the USSR. So the conditions of fear were created, and China was driven into a thinking which I think is part of the underlying cause of the problem we are dealing with today. In the countervailing sense, we have the same sort of fearwhen I say 'we' I am talking of the West- of the forces that are the paramount political and social forces in the countries I have mentioned and in other countries which have taken a somewhat similar path in their own development or emancipation, depending upon what the point of emphasis is. 
It is in this fear that has been engendered that we find every issue that has emerged since 1917 on the international arena as an issue between them' and 'us'. A view expressed principally in the first instance by the United States of America, and to some extent by the United Kingdom and certainly by the conservative governments in our part of the world is that we have a bounden duty to take a position opposite to whatever may be the point of view expressed by certain countries. As the West came together, so did the East, but what we failed to take into account was the development of forces which broke the monoliths which existed on both sides. It seems to me from the document to which I have referred that this Government is following very closely, the policies being pursued by the United States. I refer particularly to what is said by  Mr Peacock.  He says that the United States has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. He is dealing with the activities of one of the super powers. This is exactly what this document seeks to do- to put us into a low posture position and to place in the realms of reason a number of platitudes that in fact are meaningless. There is no recognition at all by  Mr Peacock,  the Government or members of the Government Parties in this place or in the House of Representatives of any of the historical factors which go to make up the sorts of problems which face us in the world today. 
One can sit down and make many lists of events to indicate how wrong we in the West have been. I am talking principally of those who have the real power in our community, the conservative sources of power in our community, whether they be in the Parliament, in the media or in the corporate sector of our society- those who really influence the thinking of most of our people. Look at the attitude we adopted towards Kenya, for example. How did we describe Kenyatta, who was to become Prime Minister? In the editorials and in the debates in this place he was once described a terrorist leader. Subsequently he became a respected leader of his country, mourned by his people. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, Mossadegh in Iran, was described as a red agent, an agent of the Kremlin, and so on. 
We all recall the way in which we adopted a negative attitude towards Indonesia during its establishment of self-determination and sovereignty in 1945-46. We all remember, of course, the statements made by the members of this Government, and the Prime Minister in particular, about China and about the war in Vietnam. We were told that it was to be the hordes of China who would come down through the IndoChina peninsula and invade this country. That was the prevailing view of all of the conservative forces in our country. If one undertook some research into the speeches, the newspapers' comments and the remarks of the commentators on radio and television, one would see that the Vietnamese were described as the agents of the Red Chinese. How incorrect that assessment was. We recall the attitude we adopted towards the struggles of the people of what was formerly known as Rhodesia and the attitude we adopted towards apartheid. In the early days some of us were actively trying to interest the Australian people in the problems of the discrimination which was taking place. 
Take our attitude to the developments in the Middle East, even our attitude in 195 1-52 to the war in Korea and the manner in which we allowed the Cold War sentiments to prevail upon the whole of the community conscienciousness The same attitude in the Cuban incident almost sparked World War III. I think that was some time in the early 1960s. Together with the justification that was used for events in the Indian Ocean, and more particularly for the events in Timor, all these examples show the impotence of Western thinking and the inability of the West to make a proper evaluation and assessment of the events taking place throughout the world. 
We did not even have an inkling of recent events in Iran, although I note that  Senator Kilgariff  claimed in his speech that when he was in Iran last year he felt that that country was on the brink of revolution. But our intelligence organisation did not say that and certainly the Americans had no idea about it, because after the overthrow of the Shah they were backing the Baktar government, which lasted several weeks, if it lasted that long. Of course events are still developing in that country. All we can look at in the area of foreign affairs points to a failure to understand and appreciate that all of these developments which have taken place, including the war in Vietnam, have been an expression of people wishing to determine their own affairs, and that nothing in the world can quench that desire. The might of the United States of America was thrown into Vietnam, with our support. To our everlasting shame, we committed Australian troops to the war in Vietnam. What was the justification behind that? There are those in our country and in the United States who believe that the United States has the power, the wisdom and the obligation to decide the future of nations everywhere in the world. It was in acceptance of that principle that we became involved in that unwinnable war. I have yet to hear a member of the conservative parties in this country acknowledge the grievous mistake that they made, that in fact they are the ones who can be termed to be the guilty ones in respect of the conflict that is taking place in the Indo-China peninsula today. 
That is right.  Senator Button  is right. Yet in the United States there are Democrats and Republicans who have changed from being hawks to doves in respect of that war. In every country, without exception, there is a lot more intellectual development and a lot more understanding of the social forces that are operating. Some are acting faster than others; nevertheless they are acting in a way that will ultimately lead to the right of all people to determine their own affairs. 
Let us look at the manner in which this document deals with the current problems in our region. I do not want to touch on what  Senator Chipp  said because I agree with him, as you do,  Mr Deputy President,  about the tragic events in Timor; but I want to deal with the problems in the Indo-China peninsula as we see them at this point. This document says that we have an evenhanded approach to the issues there and that if everybody was good and behaved themselves properly, then everybody would retreat back to their own borders and the problem would be solved; there would be no further difficulties. That ignores the issues that I have canvassed and the historical developments in the Indo-China peninsula which go back into history. Certain attitudes have developed for generations, from century to century, which form the basis of some of the current problems in that region. What did  Mr Peacock  say? When dealing with this current question in the United Nations on 25 February, he said: 
We call on Vietnam to withdraw its forces from Kampuchea and on China to withdraw its forces from Vietnam. 
That is a very simple statement. He went on to say, in a somewhat self-righteous analysis: 
The wars which have engulfed the Indo-China States over the past thirty years have brought untold human suffering and misery. 
If that is not a piece of rhetoric, I do not know what is. He continued: 
Australia seeks an environment which would enable countries of the region both individually and collectively to pursue policies designed to enhance political stability, economic advancement and cohesion. 
They are very fine sentiments with which no-one could disagree, but what do they really mean in terms of the current conflict? They mean precisely nothing and, of course, the document makes no reference to our areas of responsibility, whether we in fact contributed or the Western powers contributed to the dilemma, the problems and the disaster that now face the people in the Indo-China peninsula. We want to analyse the position of this Government and its predecessor governments, many members of which still occupy important positions in the Government. On 27 February in the House of Representatives  Mr Peacock  said: 
The conflicts reflect and were created by the hostility and rivalry existing among four states: the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. No one else contributed to them. No one else wanted them. 
Is that a fact? It is patently superficial, patently not true. Whilst there are certain differences in emphasis between the major communist powers, China and the Soviet Union, they are not the underlying causes of the present conflict. We recognise that it was this Government's predecessor conservative governments, this party of which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a member, which led Australia into a war which supported corrupt and unpopular governments in Vietnam, Kampuchea and Laos. We contributed to the problems in those countries and if we did not actually send troops into Laos and Cambodia, as it was then known, we supported the American presence and the American involvement through the Central Intelligence Agency which overthrew the Sihanouk Government. That Government was part of the movement for self-determination, led by the people who have been referred to by  Senator Wheeldon  and myself, people who could have built the sort of government which could have avoided the tragedies which subsequently took place. 
What did we do? We took the steps that dismantled that apparatus and permitted the development of other forms of government which contribute now to this problem. As I have said, we refused to recognise China. We refused to understand China, but all of a sudden, in pursuance of this anti-Sovietism, to which  Senator Chipp  referred, we seem to be adopting a pro-China, anti-Soviet position as if that were the only issue that ought to be considered in respect of the problem concerned. We continue  therefore  that same sort of superficial analysis which has been spoken of by those who give a huie more attention to the issues and which clearly is reflected in different attitudes, even in the top echelons in the United States. I am very pleased that there are people in influential positions in the United States who take a much broader view than that which is found in this document. I refer, of course, to the document to which I have made some reference previously which is released by the US International Communication Agency and which refers to the sentiment upon which all Western government policies have operated in the post-war years. The document states: 
Every local upheaval calls for American counter-action. Every American client government overthrown by its own people is defined as a gain for Moscow. This viewpoint surrenders the world to Moscow with an almost masochistic relish. a couple of years back hard liners - 
The document refers here to the American Government- 
. looked on Iraq as the total Soviet satellite state. In recent months the Iraqi Government has been spending a lot of its time beheading its pro-Soviet leaders but despite that, despite China, despite Rumania, despite Yugoslavia, we now suppose that Iran, Ethiopia, Angola and Afghanistan are permanent creatures of Soviet policy. 
The document makes the point that we just do not understand the evolution and the development of national sentiment taking place throughout the world. We, of course, contributed to the Cold War atmosphere. We contributed to the isolation of the USSR. We contributed, as part of the West, to the isolation of China and we contributed to the problems in Vietnam. An incorrect understanding of the forces that are operating on a world scale forced Vietnam into a dependence upon the USSR which was formalised on 3 November 1978 when the SovietVietnam Treaty of Friendship was signed. 
I referred previously to the monolith. We have seen evidence of the breakdown of the monolith concept, both in the West and in the East. We have seen, for example, the Yugoslav communists refusing to join the Warsaw Pact, refusing to join the COMECON organisation. But the very purpose of the COMECON organisation was to be a counter-balance trade economic bloc to overcome the difficulties of trade that existed because of the way in which we operated in the West. They set up their own defensive organisation. But despite that Yugoslavia took an independent position. More recently, we have seen the Romanian Government refusing to accept the assessments and the dictates of the Warsaw Pact powers, in fact taking a more independent position- perhaps not as independent as Yugoslavia, but independent. There is of course some evidence that the same sentiment is growing in Hungary. There was an opportunity to create an Asian Yugoslavia, an independent country, following its own social path of development, but making its decisions of selfdetermination and not being pan of the China bloc, which the Liberal-National Country Parties said was the cause of the war in Vietnam. 
It is now being said that Vietnam is antiChinese and is part of the Soviet power bloc. Let us think a little more about that, because that is where Western policy has failed, and that is where Western policy is at the root of the problems we have in the Asian region. Vietnam has been devastated for a great many years- 30 or 40 years. It was occupied by the Japanese. It was occupied by the French prior and subsequent to the Japanese occupation. It was then involved in a war with the United States and Australia. It was devastated. It was a place where experimentation of modern weapons was carried out to see whether they would work, in order to establish the superiority of Western armaments. 
Vietnam wanted assistance, which I will deal with in more detail. When it set out on its second five-year plan from 1975 to 1980, in order to rehabilitate the country and put it on its feet to occupy an independent position, it required $7.5 billion for that plan. The Soviet Union was prepared to make available only a third of the amount required, $2.5 billion. China agreed to contribute $300m, but unfortunately, as the events show, that was cancelled at the end of last year. What was Australia's contribution? It was $7m. Belgium contributed $ 18.5m. Canada contributed $9m. Denmark, for God's sake, contributed $50m. Japan contributed $155m. Sweden, a small country, contributed $3 70m. The United States, the real villain in the whole picture, contributed nothing- no money at all. Vietnam, in order to carry out its plan of rehabilitation and development in accordance with its victory in the CiVil war, was forced more and more into a position of dependence on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
What was the evidence to indicate that Vietnam wanted to occupy an independent position? What did it do? The evidence shows that it joined the World Bank, it joined the International Monetary Fund, it joined the Asian Development Bank. I do not think anyone in this chamber could say that those agencies are not independent and Western oriented. Vietnam made a major effort to obtain Western technological assistance for oil exploration. In 1975, the first year of Vietnam's second five-year plan, Vietnam invited a representative of the Bank of America to go to Vietnam, which he did. He reported back to the American Government that Vietnam desired to resume economic links with the United States despite the subjectivism that obviously existed at the end of the long drawn out war, during which the mighty United States of America had been humbled. This was of course done in the face of a United States trade embargo. In 1976 Vietnam embarked on a major diplomatic exercise to achieve increased trade and aid. 
I recall that representatives of the Embassy came to see me and several of my collegues. We then went to the appropriate Minister and asked him to exercise his good offices to persuade the United States to accept part responsibility for the devastation and the problems that existed in Vietnam. We suggested that Australia should make more than a token contribution towards Vietnam 's rehabilitation. 
In 1977 the Vietnamese Government released a liberal and flexible foreign investment code for joint and foreign owned projects. The Prime Minsiter of Vietnam went to Europe in pursuit of funds so that his country would remain independent of the power blocs in the region. At the same time he expressed Vietnam's resistance to any suggestion that the USSR should have a naval base at Cam Ranh Bay. 
What have some of the competent commentators said about Vietnam's problems; its independence as a communist state, its not wishing to be drawn in on one orbit or another but its being enabled to pursue its own independent position, its own independent development? Writing in the  Far Eastern Economic Review  on 2 February 1 979 Derek Davies said this: 
At the time of Carter's election at the end of 1976, Moscow was losing ground in Vietnam, the Kremlin's only significant foothold in Asia (Indira Gandhi's pro-Moscow Emergency rule in India was to crumble by March 1977). Already, during a mid- 1976 tour of South-east Asia, Vietnamese Vice-Foreign Minister Phan Hien had made it clear that Vietnam did not accept the Soviet view of Asean . . . 
That is, the countries of ASEAN-  . . as an imperialist creation, a successor to Seato, nor did it support the Soviet proposal for an Asian collective security treaty. At home Vietnam was re-absorbing the South with kid gloves. 
Hanoi had irritated Moscow with its membership of the World Bank, the IMF and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). 

 Mr Davies goes on to say: 
A few months later, by the spring of 1977, it had become evident that Hanoi was bent on improving relations with China. 
Further on  Mr Davies  goes on to say: 
In May, 1977, Pham Van Dong himself went to Europe where he obtained a small aid package from France. Other European countries refused to talk to him, indicating that they could not draw closer to Vietnam until the US had either given the go ahead or itself normalised relations with Hanoi. 
Pham Van Dong returned to find his country in a major crisis. A serious drought had led to food shortages- and there were no funds for industry or for the massive task of reconstruction. In April, Cambodia had diverted attention from the main economic task by launching large scale attacks over the border. 
Further on  Mr Davies  said: 
Vietnam had nowhere else to turn. By June, when Pham Van Dong went to Moscow, he had no cards to play. The Soviets, characteristically, took a hard line. Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev made any aid conditional on Hanoi changing its ways. 
Those of us who had been approached by representatives of the Vietnamese Embassy pleaded with the Australian Government to begin serious government to government negotiations between our Government and the Vietnamese Government, but there was no significant change, no large scale mission of technical support. In fact while  Mr Peacock  was abroad the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  he emerges as villain No. 1 in this whole incidentcancelled aid, as meagre as it was. He cancelled the measly $7m that we had agreed to give. Nothing but ignorance of what our responsibilities were, nothing but ignorance about what our role should be, nothing but ignorance about attempting to influence the United States and nothing but anti-Soviet hysteria- that is what has emanated from this Government. 
I know that time is moving on, but I want to make just one or two final points. Those of us who have been concerned about foreign affairs and in fact have taken a somewhat prominent part in foreign affairs issues within our parties and within the Australian community over a number of years have always been transduced because we do not take definitive positions when disputes such as these break out. We are in the hands of those who control the media. Last week there was a meeting at which most of the active peace movements in this country were present. Some of those groups adopt a pro-Soviet position; some adopt a pro-Chinese position; some take an independent position; and some take just the plain pacifist position. We considered the issues which are involved and we issued a Press statement which I think ought to be read into the record so that we can nail the lie of those correspondents and editorial writers who say that the peace movement does not genuinely represent and reflect the sentiments of peace in matters of international concern. I stand to be corrected, but unfortunately I have not been able to find a report of this statement in any newspaper in Australia despite the fact that it was placed in every Press box in Canberra. It states: 
The Australian Peace Liaison Committee believes that the Chinese invasion of Vietnam contains great dangers for world peace and heightens the possibility of a world nuclear war. 
We maintain that the most immediate and urgent task confronting the peace movement is to work towards ending the war. 
We believe that we should take five major steps: 
I stress that this statement was made prior to the decision of the Chinese Government to withdraw its forces. The statement continues: 
Firstly, we call for an immediate withdrawal of all Chinese forces from Vietnam to allow negotiations to begin and call on United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to avoid any action or statement that could provoke a further escalation or inhibit the resolution of the conflict. We propose that the independence and sovereignty of Kampuchea be guaranteed by international agreement and that the Kampuchean people be left to resolve their internal problems free of interference from Vietnam, China or any other outside forces. We support the Vietnamese Government's proposals for the resolution of all Indo-China border disputes by internationally supervised negotiations. We call for restoration of reconstruction aid to Vietnam on a more adequate scale and undertake similar aid programs to Kampuchea and Laos. 
I think that that even-handed approach is much more in tune with the reality of the problems that exist in that region than the pious sorts of statements which are expressed in the document which says nothing, which sticks to platitudes, and which ignores the historical development and the fears that exist in the minds of many of the countries of the world as a result of their development and progress towards establishing a society in which the rights of people shall be paramount. In those circumstances I suppose that we can say that this debate has at least presented an opportunity for both sides of the Senate to express their points of view. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I draw the attention of the Senate to the presence in the gallery of a very senior member of the Chinese Government, Madam Chen, and her party. I wish them a most pleasant visit to our Parliament and to our country. 
Honourable senators- Hear, hear! 
I present the following petition from 90 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that a large number of public telephones are constantly out of order? I specifically advise him that many public telephones in the Sydney area have been vandalised and made inoperative and have not been repaired for a considerable period. Can the Minister indicate what priority Telecom Australia gives to the repair of public telephone facilities in view of the announced increase in profitability of that statutory authority? Will the Minister establish whether Telecom has given consideration to installing vandal-proof telephones of the sort widely used in the United States of America? 
Having regard to the conflict of opinion that has existed in Australia over the last few years about the development of uranium mining, particularly as it relates to Aboriginal affairs and 
Aboriginal land in the Northern Territory and other parts of our Commonwealth, I think it is a matter of regret and rather ironical that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  should present this ministerial statement in the Senate. I think it is typical of this Government that it should choose the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to make a major energy and uranium statement in this place when in fact the statement should have been presented by  Senator Durack  who represents the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  in this place. I think this just highlights the fact that the Government has consistently placed the mining interests and profits from uranium, and all that that means, before the interests of Aboriginal people. I think it is a matter of concern that the Government should have chosen that course. Of course, the Government has consistently placed mining interests and profits before the interests of the environment and, as we see it, before the interests of the Aboriginal people. As the Aboriginal people themselves have pointed out on many occasions, the Government also places these interests before Australia's heritage in that particular region. 
The statement is a typical example of the way in which the Government handles its responsibilities as they apply even to legislation which this Parliament has passed. The Minister in his statement said:  . . the Government was fully satisfied as to the acceptability of the impact of the development on the environment and the Aboriginal people, having regard for the region as a whole. 
So in one sentence the Government dismisses all of the concern which has been expressed on what I though was a non-partisan basis about development in that region. 
I think it has to be accepted that the environment is rather a passive aspect and therefore it cannot in its own right articulate its views. It does not have an opinion but I think the Aboriginal people do. It is not sufficient that the Government should say just in one brief sentence that it is satisfied about the impact on the Aboriginal people. No evidence has been produced either in this statement or elsewhere that the Aboriginal people themselves are satisfied. In fact, the evidence, if it is carefully analysed, shows the opposite result. 
We should look at the Government's record especially its record under the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who is now the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner).  This Minister of course, has gone back to bashing the unemployed. He intends to put extra tests upon the unemployed and to make life even more difficult for those unfortunate people. The Government's record has been one of bullying and bashing agreements from the Aboriginal people on behalf of the mining companies. I do not think that that can be denied. In fact, the Ministers' record in this area of negotiation with Aboriginal people leaves so much to be desired. The Minister has collaborated with people like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  rather than backing and supporting the Aboriginal people in respect of the concern they have expressed from time to time. It must be acknowledged, surely, that Aboriginal people have been placed in a very unequal position. They have been unable to comprehend properly what the Government has put to them. One does not need to do other than recall the difficulties that they have had in comprehending government legislation and government negotiations. History shows the way in which their views were not, as we see it, taken properly into account. The selfish mining companies, particularly the foreign owned mining companies, won out in that unequal struggle. There is nothing in the statement that expresses any other point of view. Some voice must be raised in this place on behalf of the Aboriginal people to question the Government's ready acceptance of its own views and policies. A judgment must be made whether those views are logical, feasible and acceptable. The Government's track record in this field must be examined time and time again. 
Today's Melbourne  Age  shows the area of conflict that still exists in that region in the Northern Territory, and I read from that newspaper: 
The Northern Territory Government yesterday reaffirmed its intention not to register title deeds to land handed to Aborigines under the Federal Government's Land Rights Act. 
The deeds, which cover almost 20 per cent of the Territory, have been withheld because the NT Government believes it should have control of roads within the land. 
The NT Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  yesterday claimed the Federal Government had given to private ownership hundreds of kilometres of territory roads. 

 Mr Everingham said it followed that the roads formed pan of privately owned land, and could be closed 'at any time at the whim and fancy of the private owners '. 
Such a situation is impossible for this Government to accept', he told the NT Legislative Assembly. 
The Northern Land Council fears that while the deeds are not registered, the future of the proposed Kakadu National Park- guaranteed to Aborigines in the Ranger uranium agreement- is threatened. 
Have we not had that promise? Have we not had that matter constantly raised and assurances given to us here about that very important national park? I continue reading from the newspaper: 
The agreement to establish the park expires if the area is not proclaimed a national park by April 30. 
The council's  chairman, Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu, will press  Mr Everingham  and other NT Ministers to drop their objections to registering the deeds next week. 
The council's manager,  Mr Alex  Bishaw, said yesterday the Aborigines believed they still owned the land, but the NT Government could deny funds for road maintenance and prevent any of the land being leased. 

 Mr Bishaw said the council had at no stage threatened to close major communication links to traffic. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  said last night - 
I am only quoting from the newspaper, I hope I am not misquoting what he said- he believed negotiations with the NT over the roads would take 'weeks rather than days '. 

 Mr Everingham said it was not his Government's intention to frustrate or impede the operation of the Land Rights Act. 
He said if the differences with the Federal Government could be resolved the NT Government would legislate to introduce a restricted permit system to use of the roads by outsiders. 
With the promises that the Federal Government made or is in the process of making in the mining agreement with Ranger being jeopardised, and before it has been properly understood and accepted, the Government is rushing into another agreement. The Aboriginal people stand to lose the Kakadu National Park if it is not proclaimed before 30 April. That is not so very far away. On the one hand, the Government is procrastinating, negotiating with the NT Government which, in the words of the Minister, 'looks like being weeks rather than days'. On the other hand it is rushing ahead with Nabarlek, with a statement put down in both Houses today. Is it small wonder that we on this side of the House are somewhat sceptical? Is it small wonder that the Aboriginal people are sceptical? I am sure that large sections of the Australian public will be sceptical. This is before we look at some of the other more dubious aspects of uranium mining. 
Here I raise questions of safety and appropriateness as well as the question of land rights and the environment. Therefore, it is not just a question of making a decision on this matter and accepting the Government's assurances because the Government is not able to carry into effect the assurances it has given on the other agreement. We submit this Government's uranium policy is wrong and that the Government is chasing a radioactive red herring which is endangering the future of all Australians. The Government bases this policy on some degree of an economic factor, despite our evidence which shows that the evidence used by the Government to justify the hurried way in which this project is to be approved is certainly not borne out by the facts. I believe that the United States Congress report of 26 April 1978- hardly a year old- deals with three particular aspects, namely, safety, costs and jobs. These factors are ones which are not covered in this report. In this debate we wish to raise some of the deficiencies in the report. Dealing with the question of safety, the United States Congress says that there is still no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely disposing of this waste. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to chapter XII of the findings and conclusions contained in the report of the United States Congressional Committee on Government Operations which was presented in April of 1978. 1 was drawing attention to three factors. The first dealt with safety, the second with costs and the third with jobs. Another of the findings of that Committee relates to the safety of the nuclear industry and uranium. It states: 
After 30 years of nuclear power development, technology to dismantle a large commercial reactor has not yet been demonstrated, and the costs of dismantling such a reactor are still unknown. 
The report also deals with costs. It is very important to provide energy at a cost which is capable of being absorbed in a modern economy. The report makes an interesting observation which refers to the American Government. It states: 
If the Federal Government spent only a small portion of what it has already spent on nuclear power development for the commercialisation of solar power, solar generated electricity would be economically competitive within five years, in the view of many experts. 
The Government and the mining industry have made a great deal of comment about the fact that the mining industry will provide jobs. The report of this same American Congressional Committee stated: 
Nuclear plants are capital-intensive and thus produce few jobs. Renewable energy sources such as solar and conservation are not capital-intensive, and are expected to produce many jobs- 500,000 construction jobs for solar hot water installation alone- or three dmes as many jobs as produced by the nuclear industry. 
The Government has presented a statement about the opening of a new uranium mine. Whilst the Opposition concedes that a certain amount of agreement has been given by the Aboriginal communities to the opening of the mine at Nabarlek, the Government nevertheless uses as a justification for that decision the opportunities that the mine will provide for the Australian economy and in the creation of jobs and income. 
It ignores the basic data that is available. I wish to make further reference to this Government's approach to the creation of jobs and economic benefit. This Government's dream of vast profits from uranium is insubstantial and unsubstantiated. This report does not contain anything that would disagree with that conclusion. The Government has a fool's dream of fool's gold. It has been clear for years that there is a downturn in the nuclear industry. In fact, it is not the Mecca of success that has been previously suggested. As an endorsement of that conclusion, I wish to quote from an article headed 'US Reactor Makers on the Brink' which appeared in the Sydney  Sun  of 1 8 October 1 977. It states: 
American manufacturers of nuclear reactors are in deep trouble. 
Business is terrible. In the early 1970s, atomic power seemed the logical energy source for the last quarter of the century and utility companies ordered an average of 30 reactors a year to run their electricity generating plants. 
But after this bright period of expansion, domestic orders have fallen to almost nothing. 
In 1976, there were three orders for new plants. This year, there have been four, and two are tentative preliminary contracts. 

 Mr Howard M. Winterson, a vicepresident at Combustion Engineering, one of the main American manufacturers in the nuclear industry, is quoted as saying some 15 months ago in 1977: 
In about two years you are going to see this business disintegrate. 
The Senate and the Australian people are being conned into believing that this development will have a marked impact upon the Australian economy. The Government is assuring us that there will be a flood of uranium into what is already a buyers' market. It now has approved three uranium projects- Ranger, Yeelirrie and Nabarlek- with a total annual production capacity of about 8,000 tonnes of uranium oxide which could be on stream in the mid-1980s. Last year's annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission stated that Australia could sell 10,000 tonnes of uranium in 1985. But now those same experts are privately admitting that Australia will be lucky to sell 2,000 tonnes of uranium. The Commission's estimates of world demand for 1985 have halved in the last four years. This indicates the uncertainty that exists in this industry and confirms the view of those people involved in the industry in the United States of America. 
In such a strong buyers' market Australia will be forced to weaken even further its inadequate safeguards policy. Euratom- a European organisation- and particularly the French have indicated that an Australian veto over reprocessing is not acceptable. It is likely that Australia will have to accede to this position. Furthermore, the safeguards policy is already largely inoperative because companies are now permitted to negotiate interim sales agreements before a safeguards agreement has been finalised with the relevant country. Although the interim sales agreements will specify that no uranium can be delivered until safeguards are guaranteed and finalised, Australia will be in no position to enforce this requirement in such a strong buyers' market. The pressure on Australia to take back nuclear waste as a condition of sales will be much stronger in this new market situation. Representatives of the Japanese, United States and Philippines nuclear industries have already suggested in public comments that Australia is a good site to dump nuclear waste. In a tight financial position the companies will be able to force this Government, which is a willing and able Government, to accede to the demands of the nuclear industry, to accept weaker environmental and social controls. 
The Government has already watered down the Fox recommendations regarding pollution control technology for Ranger to include considerations of expense. The Government's total insensitivity to human welfare is demonstrated by successive decisions to flood the world market with uranium at a time of international tension. This uranium could be used in nuclear weapons. This factor ignores the third recommendation contained in the first Fox report which states: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. 
The hollowness of this Government's safeguards policy is demonstrated by the Iranian situation. In statements published only three months ago the Government said that a safeguards agreement with Iran was imminent and that that country would buy from Australia 1,000 tonnes of uranium oxide a year. We all know what has happened and how unstable that region and that country are. One would surely flinch from negotiating today the agreement that this Government was prepared to negotiate in November and December of last year. The two major devices recommended by  Mr Justice  Fox to protect the environment and the Aborigines in the Alligator Rivers region have been disregarded. Sequential development has been abandoned. The region will be flooded with white miners in the coming months.  Mr Justice  Fox stated in his report that he clearly believed this would place too much stress on Aboriginal communities. 
The second major device, the setting up of Kakadu National Park, still has not occurred. I referred to that before the suspension of the sitting. Fox recommended and the Government accepted that Kakadu should be declared before rnining activity began and whites moved in. We have seen how that promise, another of this Government's broken promises, has not been put into effect. What is happening already at Ranger? All those high and mighty words about carefully planned development, about looking after the interests of the Aboriginal communities, about being concerned about the environment are being shown for what they are- a front for an open slather by the mining companies. It is ludicrous to suggest that a management plan can be in operation and environment controls established before full scale development begins at Ranger and Nabarlek. 
Already we have seen the result of the Government's lack of control and, of course, the independent action that was taken by people such as the Premier of Western Australia. Despite the Government's public relations exercise to the contrary, Coonjimba Billabong has been badly polluted already by red mud from works at Ranger. The Government's own officials, if they were called before the Bar of the Senate or any committee of the Senate, would admit privately that pollution in that region is now a serious problem. The Government's undertakings to Northern Territory Aborigines have been put aside. In true Bjelke-Petersen style the Northern Territory Government has virtually declared war on the Aborigines. That was expressed in the editorial that I read to the Senate before the suspension of the sitting. They are frustrating the declaration of Kakadu, refusing to register Aboriginal titles to land and declaring towns all over the Northern Territory to prevent land claims being made. Where is the Government's policy of concern for the implementation of legislation to defend the rights of Aborigines to their land which has been so much debated in Parliament in recent years. 
The statement says that production at Ranger will begin in 1981-82. By that time a Labor government will be installed in Canberra and, as already indicated through my Party's federal conference, that government will repudiate any new uranium sales contracts in the light of the lack of safeguards, in the light of inadequate consultations with the affected communities and in the light of the failure to implement promises to protect the environment and to establish national parks, matters which were expressed clearly in policy considerations for the 1975 and 1977 election campaigns. Labor will not permit mining while the problems to which I have referred remain unresolved. Labor's policy shows that we are a concerned party, that we are concerned about the ramifications of the Government's policy, that we are concerned about the effects it will have on Aboriginal communities and that we are concerned about this Government's acceptance of statements made years ago concerning the future of the uranium industry which has not been shown in practice to be no longer a feasible or economic possibility in the sense of this Government's commitment to uranium mining as an integral part of the economic development of this country. 
This statement, like so many of the Government's statements which are placed before the Senate, ignores the basic problems that beset the uranium industry, ignores the basic problems that face Aborigines in the area, ignores the commitments that we have made to protect that environment and ignores the commitments that we have made to establish the essential national parks in that region. In those circumstances the Opposition can only reiterate its condemnation of the Government's approach to the establishment of the uranium mining project at Nabarlek. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General in his own capacity and as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of Press reports of land scandals taking place in various States of Australia and, in particular, a statement that a major Sydney land development company might collapse, leaving 200 people liable to lose housing deposits to finance companies? Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Consumer Affairs in the New South Wales Government,  Mr Einfeld,  has foreshadowed legislation to make finance companies partly liable if development companies collapse? In view of the Government's stated aim to encourage cooperation between the States and uniformity of legislation for the protection of consumers and to assist not only manufacturers, retailers and financiers but also those who might be interested in land purchases, has the Government taken any steps to encourage State governments to protect consumers in other States in the way projected in New South Wales, to establish what legislation  Mr Einfeld  has foreshadowed in order that there might be a basis for uniform legislation in all States, to consider any direct Federal steps to protect consumers in the Australian Capital Territory and to encourage other States to follow the New South Wales example? 
-by leave- I wish to be associated with the remarks that have been made by honourable senators about the sudden death of a former senator. I must say that, until I read the business paper today, I was not aware of the fact that Eric Bessell had passed away. I, like many of us, was shocked at the fact that a man of his stature, principle and age could be taken so suddenly. It is proper that the Opposition should associate itself with the fine tributes that have been paid to former  Senator Eric  James Bessell by the rank and file members of the Government parties. In the brief time that was available the Labor Party did not have the opportunity to know him in the intimate way in which honourable senators have spoken of him; nevertheless, we on this side were impressed by his approach to the work of the Senate and his approach to the institution of Parliament in what can be described as very difficult days. The few brief discussions that I had with him were important from the point of view of getting to know an honourable senator on the other side. 
One thing that comes to mind is his adherence to the basic principles of democracy and to the right of the Senate to act in a proper and conscientious manner in respect of its responsibilities. It is true that he was taken out of the Senate in the double dissolution of 1975 and consequently did not have the opportunity to serve as much more than an apprentice in this place. Party political considerations being what they are, one can only say that we were robbed of views, guidance and attitudes that would otherwise have been with the Senate for a considerable period. Although I knew him only briefly I can say that he was a man who was committed to democratic principles and a man who regarded principles perhaps as more important than his party. In that sense he will be long remembered when the history of the Senate is written. It is in that context that I believe we are paying tribute to a man who, whilst he was here for only a very short time, indicated to the Senate and to the Australian community generally that he was prepared to act in defence of principles rather than of party, and that is a virtue which is all too often in short supply in party politics in Australia. I extend my personal condolences to his wife and family and to the party to which he once belonged. 
The Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill gives us a chance to talk about a number of issues. It deals with birds. I want to deal with birds and blokes. I had suggested that I might talk about some other matters but I have been stimulated by the debate on the matter raised by my colleague,  Senator McAuliffe,  and the contribution made by the  Senator Peter  Baume. I suppose, in a sense, I can see some positive results coming out of this debate. I find myself perhaps more inclined to support the views of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare because I like many others would be appalled at the extent to which sport in Australia is being taken over not only by the cigarette manufacturers and the liquor industry but also by  Mr Packer.  Of course, this is where I suppose I might take issue with  Senator Peter  Baume in that if he adheres to the principle of free enterprise and private enterprise being the god, as it is so often expressed by Government members and by the media generally in this country, then he has to live with the result. That result is that everything is for sale. If everything is for sale we cannot complain if, in fact, our rugby league players, our test cricketers and our sportsmen generally, the folk heroes, the professionals whom so many of our young people follow, are bought for dollars and cents. 
I suggest to Government senators, who clearly are repelled by the blatant attempts that are being made in our country to promote a professional image in all our sporting activities, that they ought to examine the philosophy and the ideology upon which their Government policies are determined. If we support the principle that those who have the power to advertise can do so with impunity and in fact with the support of the forces that are so influential within our society, this is a natural corollary. The influence of advertising starts at an early age. For example, since we acquired a colour television set I have noticed that my own young child wants to watch it every morning. He is asked to chew lollies, to buy war toys and virtually to put pressure on his parents to buy him the muck that comes out of the McDonald's and other fast food outlets. The whole emphasis in our society and in our electronic media is on promoting this sort of thing. It is difficult for parents to act in a way that would protect their children from false values and standards because the children are subjected to this not only in what they watch on television but also at the school canteen where the same sort of products are sold because a demand has been built up in the minds of impressionable children. Therefore it is very difficult for parents to stand in the way and to counter-balance that sort of influence. 
When children start to grow up what do they see? They see the very things to which  Senator Baume  referred. These sorts of things are promoted by the person whom they look up to because he has scored a century in a test, in the case of the non-professional sportsman. But even when watching non-professionals on the Australian Broadcasting Commission what do we see? Signs promoting Benson and Hedges and KB on the hoardings and the fences and even on the scoreboards are shown on television. I consider these to be anti-social influences. Of course, on Channel 9 we see the Lillees and the batsmen about whom there is a certain folk hero concept not only performing on behalf of that sort of private sector approach but also at the end of the match going into the dressing room showing their hairy chests and drinking a KB. What sort of influence does that have upon the impressionable mind? We are concerned that high school age children are becoming one of the most important sectors in the consumption of liquor in Australia. 
And tobacco, of course. The same process is taking place in that respect. Surveys carried out by the media people in Australia have established that more than 80 per cent of those who watch television earn less than $10,000 a year. Of course it has also been established to the satisfaction of the promoters of these schemes that 90 per cent of Australian people now watch television. So there is a complete audience, a captive audience if you like, or a daily audience, which these promotional activities are influencing. They are influencing young people, who regard it as proper and natural that they should drink the moment they can drink and that they should smoke the moment they are able to smoke. That invariably happens at an age when parental influence is not able to exert itself as it did previously. 
It is correct for the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare to make the sort of recommendations that it has made. It is an established fact, in respect of cigarette smoking, that cancer is now one of the main causes of human death. According to evidence presented by the New South Wales Health Commission before the New South Wales parliamentary select committee on extended liquor trading hours, alcoholism now is a very significant factor in community health. Yet we accept the principle that the private sector can do as it wishes, that advertising is open to those who can afford to advertise. There are not many people in this chamber who can afford to advertise. There are not too many small companies in Australia that can afford to advertise. It is the very big sector of the Australian corporate sector that can afford to advertise. The bulk of advertising revenue comes from those groups that I suggest to the Senate are doing irreparable harm to the whole social fabric of our society and creating the sort of conditions which will be detrimental to public health and to the wellbeing of our community. 
I find myself in sympathy with some of the views that have been expressed by  Senator McAuliffe.  The Government should accept some responsibilities in respect of financing the activities of sport in this country and not leave it to the chook raffles and other voluntary activities which do not sustain the larger type of activities. We should start to challenge those sorts of values which I find lopsided and cockeyed- values which suggest that a sportsman should be given a large sum of money because, if he is a footballer, he has the physique and the capacity to score a goal or, if he is a cricketer, he is able to score a century or to get a hat trick. That is the value system which is now predominant in the thinking of our community and which unfortunately is the foundation upon which this Government builds its whole philosophy. I accept the sincerity of  Senator Baume  and the members of his Committee, but I think they have to analyse whether they should challenge the values that build up to that sort of situation which is detrimental to every individual who is subjected to this barrage of influence that makes it almost impossible for a child to be protected from this heavy advertising. 
My real concern is that the very person who is now buying off Australian sport- 1 am talking of Kerry Packer- is endeavouring to convince this Government that it should subsidise the establishment in Australia of a satellite communications system which not only will have the effect of creating difficulties within the communication area but also will present the Australian people as a national captive audience in respect of advertising. It is not just the sectional advertising that we see at the moment, with advertising on television in Sydney, Melbourne or wherever. There are regional stations in rural areas. If a satellite system comes into being there will be the possibility of large corporations in our community being able to sell, in one fell swoop as it were, a whole concept to a national audience. If it is wrong, as has been suggested by the Senate Committee, to have this emphasis on cigarette and alcohol advertising, it seems to me that it is wrong for us to give any credence to a suggestion that in this country we should divert resources from what is needed in education, community health and public facilities generally into subsidising the whim of a person who sees a chance to get in on the ground floor in respect of a communications satellite. It is wrong for this sort of advertising, which I think is so detrimental to the Australian people, to be delivered to a captive audience. I and any thinking person ought to deprecate the way sport is developing in this country. It will continue to develop in this way until such time as the Australian Government accepts its responsibility to fund established sporting organisations properly, as  Senator McAuliffe  has said. That ought to be the aim of any government worthy of its name. After all, who pays for that advertising? The cost of the advertising does not come from the generosity of W. D. &amp; H. O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd or Tooth and Co. Ltd. It is the consumer who pays for it. It is paid for out of the cost of the can, bottle, cigarette or cigar. It is a part of the cost structure. The Government should take it off the companies by taxation and use the revenue to subsidise Australian sport. 
Why should a government allow people in the private sector to take the type of decision which can make or break a sporting partner?  Senator Baume  is quite correct in drawing our attention to the fact that one company that hitherto had expressed some support to a sporting organisation in Sydney intends to withdraw its support. Imagine the gloom that would descend today upon such an organisation that became the victim of a group of men sitting in some high place who said that they were going to withdraw their support for a team because they did not like the coach or the team itself, or because they believed it had no chance of winning the competition. Is that the sort of principle that we want to see develop in our sporting codes? Do we not want equal opportunity for all sporting organisations? 
One would imagine that, if we lived in any sort of democratic community, we would want equal opportunity for each sport, whatever it may be, to have the capacity to put the best players on the sporting field. But that is not the case. In fact, if company A, B or C decides to back a certain club, that club has the capacity to buy the best players.  Senator McAuliffe  would agree that this happens in Rugby League particularly and in the other codes too. If a club is wealthy, it has access to the best players. Is it in the interests of sport that a player can be bought and sold as a chattel in order to create a team that should win because it has a sufficient number of the best players available? That is not what I was taught about sport when I was going through my educational process and I am sure that it is not accepted by the general community. But that is the process that has developed in the Australian community today. I find it distasteful and disgraceful that we have allowed it to develop to the stage where one or two powerful individuals, wherever and whoever they may be, can so distort our community values in respect of what is regarded in this country as being part of our national makeup. Sport plays a significant part in the thinking and consciousness of the average Australian. We have allowed to develop a situation in which those who have capital, those who happen to be the lucky people who have capital- it may have been the people in Associated Securities Ltd a few months ago; it may even have been Harry Miller a few months ago and now it may be some other organisation or company- can make a decision that will drastically alter the concepts and the ambitions of a team by the wearing of uniforms bearing the words TNT, KB or the name of whatever other company cares to put its funds into the club concerned. 
I find it distasteful not only from a moral point of view but also from the point of view that those companies then have the gall, the temerity and the capacity to put down these advertising costs as a company expense and claim them as a tax deduction which in turn means that the rest of the Australian community has to pay higher taxation. That is an unfair undemocratic sort of system when a couple of characters sitting in a posh office in some part of our Commonwealth can make that sort of a decision and expect the community to thank them for helping the clubs involved. This sort of advertising influences millions of people who watch sport on the electronic media. But members of the community are forced to pay higher taxes because of this socalled generosity in the form of emoluments to various sporting organisations. This applies right through the whole advertising industry. I think it is about time that we started to challenge these concepts and ask whether the community should pay for advertising in the way that it does. It pays for it through the payment for the article purchased. It pays for it because of uncollected taxation. 
We pay for it in a loss of good health.  Senator Baume  is quite correctand I am sure that this is what he is agreeing with me about- when he says that we pay for it in respect of the medical benefits that are paid by Medibank or the private health funds. In fact we are paying out, according to some surveys that I have seen recently in Victoria and New South Wales, hundreds of millions of dollars in the treatment of alcoholism and to care for cancer ridden people. Given the influence of advertising campaigns in these matters the community is paying time and time again. 
In those circumstances, I think it is about time that the community and the Parliament decided to have a closer look at the situation. I agree with  Senator Baume.  I am not a prohibitionist. I do not believe that those who want a drink or a cigarette should be denied them. As one of my colleagues has said, I accept the right of a person- and I like to exercise that right myself if I have worked hard- to go and have a beer or the right of those who smoke to be able to do so during smoko. What we are concerned about is extending these opportunities to our children and to others who are easily influenced. 
If honourable senators would look at this in a logical and proper way, they would see that there is much evidence showing how easily people are influenced by the electronic media. After all we all know about McDonald's fast food service. If it had not been advertised on the electronic media over the past couple of years we would not know what a person was talking about if he said: Have you bought your take-aways from McDonalds, the fast food service?' The fact is that it has been able to be promoted on the electronic media. Nutritionists have suggested to me in one or two submissions to me as Labor's spokesman on consumer affairs that the medical profession is starting to appreciate what thus sort of thing is doing to community health. In referring to take away food services, I do not want to do disservice to this company. That is not what I am in the game of politics for. But I question whether from a social point of view the promotion of this sort of food is desirable particularly at a time when we are concerned about community health and the health of individuals. 
I hope that this debate will at least influence honourable senators to look at this subject in a more enlightened way. Both  Senator McAuliffe  and  Senator Baume  have raised most capably the question of where Australia is going in respect of sport in this country. I do not believe that we ought to allow sporting codes to be dominated by the private sector of the community. I believe that if we wish to retain our image as a sports-loving country we ought to be doing something about subsidising sport from the only place from which it could and should be subsidised- the public purse- without fear or favour, to create a state of equality and not to allow people to use sport just to promote a product. 
Originally I wanted to speak about another matter. I seek the indulgence of the Senate to raise another matter which I am concerned about, namely, community health. To some extent I may be travelling a parallel road with  Senator Baume,  but it is purely coincidental. In recent weeks there has been a great deal of attention given by the media to the question of X-ray exposure. The media is one of the few areas were we receive information. For that I give it credit. It does play a part in stimulating discussion and in disseminating information. Recently I asked  Senator Guilfoyle,  as Minister representing the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  a question about X-ray exposure. She gave me the following answer:  . . the Commonwealth Radiation Laboratory is responsible for monitoring and minimising radiation dosage received by patients through the medical use of X-rays. 
She said that some reassessments were in progress. She then went on to say: 
Presently there is no scientific proof that individuals in Australia are being exposed to a higher dosage of X-rays than is medically necessary. 
It is this sort of comment from our Ministers and our public agencies about environmental hazards and radiation that has caused me to undertake some research. I am not satisfied that the Government is applying itself in the way that it should, which is to protect community health. That statement implies- this is most importantthat the Australian community can be exposed to any level of a possibly hazardous productwhether it be X-rays or the insecticide which was talked about in recent weeks, 2,4, 5-T- unless it can be proved definitively that the product seriously threatens human health or life. I see a degree of inability on the part of this Government in approaching its responsibilities with regard to 2,4,5-T. There is a degree of intellectual poverty here because the view seems to be expressed by government agencies that until the product is proven guilty it should be regarded as innocent. It means that the onus of proof is shifted to the consumer, whom I suggest to the Senate is not able to make a value judgment with respect to such things as 2,4,5-T, to prove that the hazard exists before he or she can be protected. 
In recent years we have seen large rural communities in this country and in other parts of the world heavily drenched by this substance. Already large numbers of rural workers, farmers and those in rural communities have been subjected to the use of this substance without our really understanding whether that substance is safe or unsafe. It is held by some people that the substance is very seriously affecting public health and that it causes mutations in future generations of human beings. There is some evidence to show that this is something that this Government ought to examine more seriously. Last Friday week the United States Environmental Protection Agency imposed an emergency ban on the use of 2,4,5-T. An article on this ban, published in the  Age  of 7 March, states: 
The agency said its decision was based on studies finished only days ago showing high miscarriage rate among pregnant women following the spraying of 2,4,5-T in Oregon forests. 
The EPA said immediate suspension was considered necessary to avoid the use of 3,176 tonnes of the defoliant and weed killer during the spring spraying season in the United States. 
The Environmental Protection Agency has made a much more serious survey and examination and has taken a more humane attitude than that suggested in the reply which  Senator Guilfoyle  gave me when I asked her this question several weeks ago. I quote now from the cable sent from Washington to the Australian Health Department prior to the answer that  Senator Guilfoyle  gave me. It states: 
We are not saying that the health effects in humans are positively proven or that 2,4,5-T should never be used again. 
What we are saying is that there is sufficient evidence to stop further exposure to the chemical until the issues can be resolved. 
Here we have a situation where the United States has taken a position, concerned as it is with the state of health of those who may be affected by this chemical. I do not think it is good enough for the Government to take the view that when in doubt it ought not to act. It seems the principle upon which the Government should act is that when in doubt it should act to protect the health of those people who may otherwise be affected by the use of such a chemical. It seems to me that this is the correct attitude that we ought to adopt. It is the attitude that has been adopted in the United States. 
It is true that there are people who take a different point of view. There are those who suggest that there are serious hazards but that there is no scientific proof. However, there is enough evidence, surely from the United States conclusion, to say that until we are reasonably sure that there is no problem then that conclusion ought to apply so far as Australia is concerned. What has happened is that the States have been as reluctant to move as the national health authorities have been federally. I cannot understand why we are so reluctant to follow the American experience. Generally we seem to take many of the bad influences of the United States in these matters. From time to time many senators and people in our community have expressed concern about some of the violence and racial difficulties which are so much part of the scene in the United States and the way in which we allow our society to deteriorate. But when the United States takes some steps of a positive nature that have as their objective the protection of public health and individual health, we seem to be reluctant to follow the particular lead.  Mr Jack  Snelson, an authority on herbicides, has estimated that Australia uses between 2,700 and 4,000 tonnes of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D each year. In a retail sense this represents something like $24m. 
Returning to the question I asked  Senator Guilfoyle  a couple of weeks ago about the herbicide and also the question that I asked her about X-rays, I think that one is entitled to say that she has not given me the sort of answer that should be expected from a Minister of the Crown. Let us look at the use of X-rays generally. The known danger of routine medical X-rays has just hit the Australian media on the new program  Nationwide  on 26 February. My question, of course, follows that particular program. One would have expected that the Minister for Health would have supplied the Minister for Social Security with a more detailed answer than she gave me. In the program  Nationwide,  the following allegations were made by responsible scientists: 
Members of the Australian public are being subjected to total cumulative X-ray dosages which are now suspected of being capable of inducing cancer and genetic damage. 
The exposure of the community is doubled by their exposure to man made radiation, 90 per cent of this dosage is due to medical uses of radiation and as much as half may be unnecessary. 
I do not know whether that is a correct estimate. I do not know whether  Senator Baume  would agree with me but that is what the allegation was and it has not been refuted by any reputable scientist or spokesman on behalf of the medical community. It was further stated: 
The most important cause of unnecessary irradiation is from unnecessary X-rays ordered by doctors, or X-rays not taken in optimum ways. 
One would have thought that this Government would have been very interested in that, having regard to the constant complaints that we have heard from the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Health about the increasing costs of our medical scheme. No evidence has been produced to suggest that that subject has been examined by those who express concern about the increased medical costs in this country. In that program it was said also that attention must be drawn to the widespread use of the mini films X-ray system which delivers a dose of up to 1 5 times the dosage delivered by other available machines, produces a less clear picture, but is used simply because of its immediate convenience for the operator. It was further stated: 
X-rays are being used routinely for dental X-rays- yet even the Director of the Australian Radiation Laboratory, Keith  Lokan  says that he personally would decline to have a routine dental X-ray. 
I believe that these claims are extremely serious. One would have thought, even with respect to the matters that were raised on that program, that there would have been some public rebuttal of or explanation about whether there was any substance in the allegations. It has been put to me by large sections of Australian medical service recipients that those allegations have some substance and that many people in Australia are being subjected to unnecessary health impairing radiation. I can only ask the Senate and those Ministers charged with this responsibility whether those allegations have any substance. If not, the responsible authorities ought to say so. They have not said so. This deserves more response than vague comments about impending studies and lighthearted reliance on the absence of certain proof, especially as the difficulty of obtaining that proof is increased by an absence of monitoring. An Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter is recorded as saying: 
No one knows how many X-rays are taken in Australia each year - 
If that allegation is true I find it alarming. If the Government of Australia is spending too much on health and X-rays, one would have imagined that at least we would know. The ABC report continued: 
There are no records of the total dose of radiation being administered through X-rays to the population at large, nor of the cumulative dose each individual may be receiving. 
I applaud the fact that the ABC reporter has brought this to the attention of the Australian public, but where is the response? Where is the refutation, the rebuttal or the endorsement of that sort of public ventilation of the issue? The ABC reporter goes on to say: 
Since 1954, the taking of X-rays has mushroomed into big business in Australia, but no one really knows how big. 
I have referred already to the increased costs to Medibank and the community generally. Not only is there serious growing concern over the unnecessary exposure to X-rays, but there is also a growing scientific doubt about what harm accrues from a small dose of radiation. This reflects not only on the medical use of X-rays, but also on the safety of the nuclear power industry which this Government has so irresponsibly presented as being safe. 
I accept the fact that there are members of this Government who are concerned about public health, but if this Government is concerned about the safety of Australian medical service recipients, or the safety of those sections of the global community exposed to the growing radiations from the nuclear industry, it should have acted already in response to the growing international concern about nuclear radiation generally. What is the evidence for this new concern? Firstly, and most recently there is an 800-page draft report of a committee formed last May by  President  Carter of the United States, in response to higher cancer rates amongst those living near nuclear facilities and bomb sites. The report in the  Canberra Times  dated 1 March 1979 dealing with this subject states as follows: 
A small but unresolved threat to health posed by radiation in low dosages - 
It notes that many X-ray exposures could be eliminated. According to the latest issue of  New Scientist  the summary produced by the task force that was set up by President Carter states: 
The results of recent studies of populations exposed to very low levels of radiation raise serious questions  . . and suggest that risks may be higher than earlier predictions. 
A lot of other experts have drawn attention to this. I would like to make reference to people like Professor Manucso and Drs Stewart and Kneale who have made extensive studies of cancers amongst workers at the United States Hanford nuclear facility. Their studies have shown significant increases in cancers amongst workers exposed to less than the permitted safe radiation dose. They have calculated that the safe level would double a workers chance of getting leukaemia in less than one year. So if we are really concerned- and I would suggest that the Senate standing committee is concerned in its report on cancer- we should be concerned about the suggestion that there is a significant increase in cancer of up to 450 per cent amongst workers at the Portsmouth nuclear submarine building facility. There are statements by scientists all over the world which suggest that there ought to be a further examination of this issue. What I am saying is that whilst the Senate standing committee has drawn attention to some aspects, there are wider implications that ought to be examined by those who know the industry, who know that risks exist and who are concerned about public health. The sort of prejudices that so often exist in our minds because of our individual ideologies ought to be set aside and we ought to apply ourselves to the same considerations of these issues as we have to alcohol and cigarettes. I would, therefore, suggest that there is a case for even greater examination of the issues involved in radiation, as there is in the report that has come down from the Senate's own committee as presented by  Senator Baume. 
I started off by challenging the value system upon which so much of our activity exists within this community. I suggest that it is time for many people to examine where that value is leading us. It is leading us into an area which does not have regard for the health of individuals and for the best interests of the Australian community. 
On behalf of  Senator Keeffe,  I present the following petition from 162 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 500 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Sutherland Shire respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the construction of any additional reactor at the Australian Atomic Energy establishment at Lucas Heights in New South Wales. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Last May the Opposition began a persistent and consistent approach to the Government and asked the Government, through its Ministers, to make a detailed statement to the Parliament about the serious allegations that had been raised in the previous few weeks about social security frauds in New South Wales. Even nine months ago it was clear that there was a growing concern in a section of the community that it had been treated in a discriminatory manner. There was a concern that just treatment had not been received, that a section of the community had been singled out, had been accused of being guilty rather than being presumed innocent. In fact, the accusations were made in such a way as to presume that those persons, whom it was alleged were involved in the fraud, were guilty. The concerns raised nine months ago in this place have been reinforced subsequently by the questions that have been asked from both sides of this House. 
What we have from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  today is another coat of whitewash upon the way in which her Department and the top echelons of the Commonwealth Police have handled this whole sorry question which can only be described as being one of the great scandals of this Government since it came to office in 1975. When the Minister is placed on the defensive she persists in answering questions in this way: 'I am advised . . .', or, 'My advice is . . .'. She never at any stage asserts what were the facts in respect of these matters that have been so much a concern of the Parliament and of the community. There has been prevarication and deception. There have been misleading answers to questions in this place, and always the specious reply is that that is what has been said to her by her Department. 
On 31 March 1978, 100 Commonwealth police launched a series of raids on doctors and persons of Greek origin in Sydney. In the  SunHerald of 9 April  1978, Chief Inspector Thomas, who planned the raids in association with another senior officer- I think it was Assistant Commissioner Davies- to whom the Minister referred today, was quoted in the newspapers as having said that it was the biggest single criminal operation in Australian police history.  His  assessment of the operation was reported in another statement as the biggest breakthrough in the history of the police force. He supported this contention with the announcement that 1 82 people had been arrested, 83 people had been charged with conspiracy to defraud the Commonwealth, 1,000 further arrests were expected and that moves were underway to extradite 300 people from Greece to face charges. Police alleged that these people had been involved in a massive conspiracy to defraud the Department of Social Security of huge amounts of money which totalled, as  Senator Grimes  said, somewhere between $6m to $60m. 
That was the scenario, and who set it up? It was Chief Inspector Thomas, Assistant Commissioner Davies and  Mr Lanigan,  the DirectorGeneral of the Department for which the Minister is responsible to this Parliament. I am not particularly concerned whether  Mr Lanigan  spent half an hour at the operation headquarters or whether he spent an hour and a half in the bar subsequent to that. I am not concerned with the specious answers that are given that he spent only a short time there. We all know how words can be used to describe a different set of circumstances. It has to be said that a scenario was set up which could only be described as hysterical, flamboyant and sensation seeking. 
It was in the light of the creation of that son of climate that we asked questions in the Senate of the Minister for Social Security. The scale of the police operation, the flamboyancy of the senior officers concerned- the so-called responsible police officers- and the seriousness of the alleged offences have been taken as an open invitation to victimisation of a large number of persons of Greek origin receiving pensions. It has been estimated by a Greek welfare rights officer, Angela Manson, as reported in the Melbourne  Age  as recently as 31 January this year, that about 800 people who have never been charged have been treated as suspects merely because they were patients of the six doctors charged in this case. It is probable that many people attended at least four of these doctors as patients, not for any conspiratorial reasons, but because they spoke the Greek language. 
Anyone who knows anything about the Mediterranean countries knows that it is the practice for people to go to those in authority, whether they be officials or professional people, to seek assistance in gaining help from the governments in their respective countries. There is nothing wrong with people availing themselves of the opportunities that exist in this country. For many of these patients this suspicion and this apparently unjust presumption of guilt were a source of serious hardship, serious embarrassment and serious harassment. Many members of the Greek community have felt that just because they were Greek they were presumed by other members of the Australian community at large to be involved because of the way in which this whole case was dealt with by Chief Inspector Thomas. Never once has the Minister for Social Security, the Government or any spokesman for the Department of Social Security denied the exaggerated claims that were made by that officer who masterminded the whole exercise. 
In the  National Times  on 3 February of this year,  Ms Manson  said she had personally seen about 80 clients who had been suspended from receiving social security benefits after the raids. She claims that many of her clients were left without payment for as long as four months after she had personally telephoned the Department to make appointments for interviews for them. One of her clients was forced to wait for three months before again receiving social security benefits. This seems to fly in the face of the pious statements and explanations that were given by the Minister who suggested that nobody has been disadvantaged by what took place at that time. I make the assertion that if any section of the ethnic communities which have come to our country in the post-war years were eligible for special recognition for being law abiding and well-adjusted it would be the Greek community. Yet such was the way in which this Government, its officers, the Department of Social Security and the Commonwealth Police handled this whole episode that thousands of people were placed under this cloud. 
It would appear that the Minister herself, in attempting to say that we ought to wait until such time as the case has been dealt with in the courts in New South Wales, ignores what is behind the motion moved by  Senator Grimes  today. We are calling for an independent inquiry into the way in which the Government handled this whole incident. We are not seeking an inquiry into the rights or wrongs of those people who were alleged to have been involved in fraudulent claims for social security benefits but the way in which this Government has handled this whole question and the way in which the senior officers of the Commonwealth Police have handled it. I am referring to police who are notorious for harassing minority groups in our community. Let us face the fact that this has been our general experience. I can recall Catholics telling me how 50 years ago they were harassed in various parts of Australia because they were a minority group in our community. We know how black people have been harassed in various parts of our country. We know how homosexuals have been harassed by police in various parts of our country, how the poor have been harassed and how radicals and demonstrators have been harassed. It is that same sort of sentiment, the same philosophy, that prompted senior members of the Commonwealth Police to make that sort of judgement in respect of the members of the Greek community in Australia. 
If only some of the allegations that were made by  Mr Thomas  on behalf of the Commonwealth Police, acting on behalf of the Department and the Government, are true the Minister for Social Security has been either irresponsible or incompetent. She has allowed a situation to develop in which responsible welfare officers and members of the Greek community have found themselves unable to continue to expect just and fair treatment from her Department. She is aware of that fact as we are aware of it. We know that those people who act on behalf of the Greek community are aware of these difficulties.  Mr Lanigan,  the Director-General of the Department of Social Security, promised in a Press release issued on 19 April last year that 'no person need fear that he will be left without income'. How does that statement compare with the statement from the Greek welfare officers who have had to deal with the problems in the field? Of course, they know that there is a vast difference between what has been said by officialdom and what has been practised in the field. We must bear in mind also the additional comments of my colleague,  Senator Grimes.  There can be no doubt that  Senator Guilfoyle  has on a great number of questions failed to answer satisfactorily questions properly put to her in this place.  Senator Grimes  has clearly shown the deficiencies in  Senator Guilfoyle  's statements. We believe that those deficiences should be considered by some public inquiry into this whole event. 
There is another matter which I believe is alarming. In an interview on the radio program  P.M.  on 3 May last year,  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
The Commonwealth Police decide the means that they require in order to conduct a full investigation and the documents that are required to do this are made available to them on that basis. 
She went on to say:  whatever information was asked for by the police in that case, was made available to them. 
What does this actually mean? Does it mean that any information possessed by the Department of Social Security was made available, that all information on all recipients of social security benefits was accessible to the Commonwealth Police, that the private and personal lives of thousands of people in need were sifted through by the police? That is just what it means. 
Detective Chief Inspector Don Thomas was interviewed on  This Day Tonight  on 3 April last year. He was the leader of that now infamous raid code named 'Don's Party'. I quote from what he said: 
We physically looked at several hundred thousand files within the Department of Social Security. 
When he says that they physically looked at several hundred thousand files, does that mean they looked at the file for every person whose name, like mine, has a 'z' in it, or people whose name appeared to be of some foreign origin? Were those files dealing with people's lives freely made available to and examined by the Commonwealth Police? Several hundred thousands were looked at resulting in only 179 arrests. Where are the people to be extradited from Greece? The Inspector referred to 300 people when he made his famous extravagant statements last year. He has been to Greece several times. In fact, he has been to Greece since Christmas of last year. Where is the proof of this man's statements and allegations which create a climate that affected so many of the hapless and helpless people in our community in Sydney? The access to these files must be regarded as the greatest invasion of privacy ever committed. It is worse than the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation getting access to them. The Commonwealth Police obtained access to the files on the say-so of the Minister. They looked at, to use the Minister's words, several hundred thousand files. Yet the net result is that only 179 people have been arrested and put on trial. Yet the Minister has the gall to stand up in this place and suggest that the Government and those who have acted as agents of the Government have acted properly. The Minister has suggested that the Opposition is somewhat irresponsible in suggesting that there ought to be a public inquiry into the way in which this whole question was dealt with. The Opposition raised this matter because of clear discrimination and an attempt to make scapegoats of a section of the Australian community. 
It seems to me that what is involved here is the fundamental question of ministerial responsibility. It is no good the Minister suggesting that she acted only on the advice that was given to her. Many of us, I suppose, take the view that  Senator Guilfoyle  is a very nice person. She is a woman, and in this period when women's rights are receiving a great deal of extra attention from the Parliament and from senators individually, we do not feel we want to criticise her because of who she is. She is still a Minister of the Crown. She is still a person who has to accept ministerial responsibility. The establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate this matter is one way to establish whether she has been competent or otherwise. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on the 10th December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which declares that, 
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration. . . . ' (Article 2) that 'Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives . . . The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or equivalent free voting procedures. ' (Article 21(1) and ( 1 ). 
Elections for Senators meet all requirements except one. Senators are elected periodically, by secret ballot, with universal franchise, and the quota-preferential method of proportional representation ensures that the vote values within states are equal as nearly as can be. 
However the provision of the Electoral Act that compels voters to show preferences for ALL candidates on the ballot paper interferes with the free expression of the will of the voters, and is unjust. 
Australia, as a Member State of the United Nations, is pledged to achieve observance of Human Rights and Freedoms. 
We, the undersigned citizens of Australia, therefore humbly pray that the Senate will fulfil the pledge of a Member State of the United Nations and take steps to remove the compulsion from the Electoral Act in order to allow freedom of expression for everyone who has the right to vote for Senators. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Government aware of the increased incidence, number and nature of product recalls, bannings and failures to meet safety and other standards under both State and Federal legislation in the years 1976 to 1978? Is the Minister aware that at least three major manufacturers- the Ford Motor Co. of Aust. Ltd, General Motors-Holden's Ltd and Chrysler Aust. Ltd- and a number of motor vehicle component manufacturers have been obliged to recall motor vehicles? Can the Minister state whether these recalls have covered all the defective vehicles and whether buyers of used motor vehicles have been made aware of the defective vehicles, or are they mill on sale? Does the Minister's Department or any Federal body other than the Trade Practices Commission- which lists only bannings under its own powers- list, record or make available to the public, retailers or manufacturers information on product recalls, failure to meet safety standards and product bannings? Would it not be in the public interest as well as in the interests of consumers if a list of such defective goods and products were published from time to time? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The claim made by the Aboriginal communities to the part of the Northern Territory to which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  referred was a successful claim and one that we applaud. It is to the credit of the Minister that he has made a decision to advise the Parliament from time to time on what action will be taken by the Commissioner on the claims that are made. It is to the credit of the Government that in this instance the claim of the Aboriginal communities has been recognised. However, I feel that one question ought to be raised in this respect, that is, the ready acquiescence of the Commissioner to the claim and the reasons he gives in the report, namely, the lack of substantial interest in the claimed area shown by Europeans. One would hope that that principle will not necessarily always be applied. Europeans should not be given undue preference just because they show some interest in the land claimed by Aboriginals. 
It seems to me to be a pretty unsatisfactory state of affairs when Aboriginals who want title to their land have to suffer the indignity and the processes of white civilisation in order to establish a claim thereto, and if Europeans have particular interest in the land, the possibility of the Aboriginals winning title to their land being diminished, depending upon the value of the land or the mineral deposits that might be found in the land. I recall that Captain Cook laid claim to the whole eastern coast of Australia. I suppose that if I were to research this period of history more deeply I would find that some time later than 1770 white civilisation laid claim to the whole of the territory which we now know as Australia. It seems strange that the original owners of the land, notwithstanding their occupation and use of the land over hundreds and thousands of years, have to go before a tribunal set up by the usurpers of the land in order to establish their rights thereto. 
It seems immoral that we have established that process because European civilisation, within the last couple of hundred years, said 'We are taking this land', and the original owners are forced to go to some tribunal to establish their claim to it. I hope that the lack of interest by European groups in this particular case will not mean that where title to property is sought by Aboriginals in the future too much weight will be given to the views of those who want to establish some pecuniary interest in the tribal lands. Most of us will be pleased to note that in this case recognition has been given to the original owners and their ancestors and that they have been given title to the land. I hope that this will be the forerunner of many successful attempts by Aboriginals both in that area and throughout Australia to gain title to their land. I recognise that we are not in a strong moral position to say that because such land is Crown land we have prior rights over those who were the original land owners. 
The Senate has, on many occasions in the last year or so, discussed the problems of the Aborigines at Aurukun and Mornington Island. We have expressed in a variety of ways our concern at the actions of the Queensland Government which have clearly been designed to circumvent the wish of the Australian people, as expressed some 12 years ago, that the Commonwealth Government should accept responsibility for our Aboriginal communities. I suppose it was in the light of those discussions, in which it was shown clearly that a sense of bipartisanship had developed in this place concerning areas of responsibility and obligations to the original owners of this vast continent called Australia and that there were members on both sides of the chamber with common attitudes and objectives, that 11 months ago the Senate established a committee of inquiry into all of the factors relating to the problems of the Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
It seems to me that when one examines the terms of reference and the report which was, after all, presented to the Parliament several months ago one could expect that a government, and a Minister, who were concerned with the plight of these people would already have acted upon those recommendations which represented clearly the common view that I have said exists in the Senate about the aspirations of those who live in that part of north Queensland. One is prompted therefore to ask why, despite the debates and despite the assurances and the admissions in this place by members of the Government parties that they missed the boat when we were discussing this matter on the last day of March 1978 and that they should have supported the amendment then moved by the Opposition- one that would have circumvented the mischievous and blatant actions taken by that way-out Government in Queensland and would have protected the rights of the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island- the Government has not acted. We might have expected a government, in the light of its policy as expressed in its platform, upon which it fought the election, and as expressed in various statements relevant to this report that have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  would have acted upon the recommendations of the Committee. Yet here we are in the third week of March 1979, almost five months after this report has been presented to the Parliament, still concerning ourselves with the recommendations. 
It is to the everlasting shame of the Government and of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  that we have not proceeded beyond the impasse that has been created for the national Government by the obtuse attitude of the Queensland Government. I repeat, the political indecision that the Commonwealth Government has shown because of its concern for the attitude of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Mr Porterthey  will go down in history as two people who should never have represented the people of Queensland, least of all of the Aboriginal people of that State- is something of which the Government should be ashamed. 
Tonight, in listening to the debate in the other place, I noted the very determined and insolent attitude of the Treasurer of this country,  Mr Howard,  who threw down the gauntlet to the New South Wales Government because it dared to exercise its sovereign powers in respect of an industrial and economic matter that affected a section of its work force. This Government has the temerity and arrogance to threaten the New South Wales Government about its legitimate right to take action in respect of matters which affect the industrial welfare of a section of its work force; yet it refuses to act in respect of its obligations and responsibilities and its promises on many occasions concerning the Aborigines of Queensland. It refuses because it has not got the guts to take on the arrogant Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who is the most way-out Premier in any part of the Western world. The Government has stood still and refused to act in accordance with its responsibilities and has refused to act in respect of the recommendations of a committee which was set up by this Senate to examine the very issues that we are debating this evening. 
On the other hand, the Government is quite happy to take on a Labor Premier and a Labor government which exercises its responsibilities and obligations. Even if the Government disagrees with the Government of New South Wales, its actions have been hardly in the spirit of co-operative federalism. The use of this phrase has sickened me and my party since 1975 when the present Government came to office. The Government has made us almost vomit at the repetitive use of that phrase in this place. Yet when the New South Wales Labor Government takes action this Government issues threats and employs stand-over tactics, as witnessed in the House of Representatives this evening. When this Government is faced with its responsibilities and obligations to the Aborigines in Queensland, the pious talk and platitudes that have been synonymous with its approach to the treatment of Aborigines are forgotten. The Government is silent; it says not a word. Government senators failed to vote with Opposition senators on 31 March 1978, even though they admitted afterwards that perhaps they should have taken cognisance of" what I said on that day and protected the position of the Aboriginal communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. Honourable senators opposite now offer all the reasons in the world for not having acted. We have yet to see whether they are prepared to get on their feet and speak to the issue. We have now heard three Opposition speakers in a row, but the Government has not offered a single  speaker. 
We are waiting for a Government  speaker  to defend the recommendations of the report, to which we are asking the Senate to give consideration. Are we to deal with this in a partisan way or in the way in which the Senate Committee has dealt with it, based on the facts and taking account of the arrogance and obtuseness that have been characteristics of the Queensland Government? Are we to deal with it with the objectivity with which  Senator Missen  and his colleagues have approached it? 
We do not know that. So far the Government has not been prepared to match the Opposition speaker for speaker. If I had to judge the attitude of the Government and of the Minister I would have to conclude that it would go to water in respect of Queensland and Aurukun and Mornington Island, and its responsibilities to Aborigines. That is what the Government has done during the last year or so that we have been debating this issue. 
I give top marks to the members of the Committee. They have fulfilled their obligations to the Senate, their obligations to the black communities in Queensland and their obligations to the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities in particular. I make no criticism of those Government senators or of my own colleagues who sat on that Committee. One has only to look at the recommendations to see that they are in accord with the substantial opinion of this Senate which has been expressed on every occasion that we have debated these issues. 
Nobody in this place has been prepared to get on his feet and say that what was being said by the Opposition and by those few courageous members of the Government parties about the problems of the black communities in Queensland deserving the support of the Senate. Yet, nobody on the Government side has challenged their remarks. What has been their response? Their response has been to sit on the sidelines and take no action on the matters which are within their area of responsibility and which form part of their parties' policies, part of their own statements and part of their obligations, because they are not prepared to take on that awful maverick Bjelke-Petersen and the stooges who are his Ministers in the so-called Queensland Government. 
It is small wonder that  Dr Edwards,  the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland, has seen fit to criticise the Premier and the attitudes that he has taken. Is it any wonder that the State member for Townsville, another Liberal member, has suggested that the Premier ought to have some medical treatment? Yet, in the face even of a revolt in their own quarters in Queensland and their recognition that they have running that State an extreme right wing government and a government that is completely out of touch with politics and public opinion in that State and elsewhere in Australia, and in spite of all the evidence that they know represents their backwardness in meeting their obligations, honourable senators opposite sit here and cop it, and cop it sweet. Not one of the Ministers in this Government is prepared to face up to the recommendations contained in this report which was placed before them in November 1978. What did the Minister's own Department, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, say in its submission to this Committee? That submission obviously brought about unanimity in respect of the recommendations of the Committee. Have I to remind members of the Senate and have I to remind the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs of what his own Department said about Queenslandthat the policy and the practice of the Queensland Government differ markedly from the Commonwealth's approach on this major point of policy? 
The submission refers to protracted negotiations with the Queensland Government at ministerial and official levels since the passage of the referendum. When was the referendum? Heavens above, half the present members of the national Parliament were not even here when the referendum was carried. Here we have one State thumbing its nose and telling the Commonwealth Government to go jump in the lake. And what does this Government do about it? It threatens the New South Wales Government but licks the backside of the Queensland Government. It is not prepared to take on the Queensland Government because it has not the guts to accept its responsibilities and stand up to a man who is in anyone's estimation a disgrace as the Premier of a State in this Commonwealth. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs in its submission stated that protracted negotiations with the Queensland Government at ministerial and official levels since the passage of the referendum- therefore, spanning the terms of several Commonwealth governments- have failed to achieve satisfactory changes in the legislation in Queensland. That legislation, says the Minister's own Department, is in the Commonwealth Government's view discriminatory and outdated, primarily because it gives government officials extraordinary powers to manage and direct the lives of Aborigines and Islanders on reserves, trusteeships on reserves and the right to negotiate on behalf of Aborigines and Islanders about land use and in particular exploration and mining on reserves. It also gives them the power to manage the property of Aborigines and Islanders. 
We heard only two days ago, during the first reading debate on a money Bill, what was happening on Palm Island. We heard it from  Senator Bonner  whom the Premier of Queensland regards as some sort of red ragger, radical or odd person.  Senator Bonner  himself has referred to those descriptions of him by some of the way-out characters who call themselves Ministers in the Queensland Government. He pointed to the fact that people on Palm Island who were on the Commonwealth and State electoral rolls were, by the decision of the Queensland Government, taken off the Palm Island rolls because their votes may have brought about a result which was different from what the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Porter,  desired. He is that great individual who believes in democratic rights in al! parts of the world except his own State. As  Senator Bonner  pointed out, not only were a third of the people kept off the electoral roll but also people who have lived on the Island consistently were denied, by this undemocratic and discriminatory Minister and his Department, the right to nominate for election to office. 
What has the Government said about this since  Senator Bonner  raised the matter two days ago? What has been done by the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs? What has been his attitude? What statement has he made? What action has he taken to remedy this situation? What are the legal remedies for those unfortunate people who have to live in the 'deep north ', the State known as Queensland. What recourse do they have to some democratic process? Their only recourse is to get rid of the Queensland Government; but, as we know, there has been such a gerrymander in that State that the people of Queensland are not given the opportunity to act in this way. What have the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island said? They have adopted the simple strategem of appealing to this Government. They appealed to me more than a year ago. They appealed to  Senator Bonner,  to  Senator Missen,  to other members of the Government parties and to the Minister, who was then a back bencher. Since he was elevated to the more plush seats of the Ministry he has been contained, silenced and put down by the Government, which is not prepared to accept even minimal responsibilities and obligations in respect of these people. 
We have talked about the rights of the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island and they have made pleas to us, presented petitions to us and made statements through their own representatives. Does anybody deny that they have done just that? Have not  Senator Missen, Senator Martin, Senator Bonner  and one or two other senators on the Government benches been to Aurukun and Mornington Island and seen for themselves what sort of treatment the people in that area have to suffer as a result of the unilateral action that was taken five minutes after we determined an attitude in this Senate on 31 March 1978. 
Are we not now confronted with this latest blatant disregard of human rights, where a white man, a European, is being permitted by the Queensland Government to stand for a position of management over those who shall make up the shire council? We all know this to be a mere subterfuge. The shire council concept was thought up by the Queensland Government to overcome the views of this Parliament, of this Government and of the people at Aurukun and Mornington Island. This subterfuge opens the door to anybody to stand for public office. We now have a real estate agent from Toowoomba for God 's sake, running as a candidate and seeking to represent the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. The Government sits silent. The Government says: 'Oh, that is democratic. We must not intervene. We must not interfere because everybody has the right to stand for public office'. Despite the petitions, despite the statements and despite the experience of everybody who has been to Aurukun and Mornington Island, what does this Government do? Precisely nothing. It sits silent and allows the sort of intimidation and the sort of arrogance and overbearing attitude which have been characteristic of the way in which whites have dealt with blacks since 1788 to be the predominant factor. Even the more decent members of the Government have tried to justify running a  Mr Pettit  from Toowoomba for the shire council of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
On Palm Island, and in other areas the names of which are not particularly well known to meYarrabah for example- there has been the same sort of manipulation, and attitudes are adopted by the so-called Queensland Government that make a mockery of any sort of democratic processes and of any sort of protection of the rights of the people of the black communities in the 1 7 or 1 8 reserves that go to make up the areas of our particular responsibilities. We have said and said often that we accept that these are part of a national responsibility. Is it not about time that we raised ourselves above party politics? Is it not about time that we said to Queensland: 'You are not going to defy the national position'? Is it not about time that those men and women of goodwill in the Government parties asserted themselves, if not successfully in the party room, for God 's sake then in this place and said to the Australian Government that the Senate is exercising some of its powers and responsibility as a States' House which says what it is concerned about is people and not institutions? Is it not about time that we saw developing in this place the sort of atmosphere, attitudes and decisions that we are all on public record as saying are part of our responsibility as honourable members of the Senate who should rise above party politics and not be dominated by the party room. 
If the senator is concerned, I am the spokesman for my party in this place on this matter. I was not consulted in respect to this amendment because it represents, I would have thought, the consensus of the Senate and not just of the Labor Party that we would call upon the Australian Government to take the necessary action to acquire the land known as at 1 March 1978 as the Aboriginal settlements of Aurukun and Mornington Island and place it in perpetuity in land trusts set up by the Aboriginal tribal elders of the settlements. We spoke about this this morning in respect to areas of the Northern Territory. Let us apply it in the place where it means something, where the demand has been with us for a considerable period. Let us say it without fear or favour. Let us say it outside the party room. Let us say it in this place, this chamber of review. If we do that we will earn some respect for what we do and respect for what the Senate does. 
This is the third occasion on which a Minister in this place has presented to the Senate a statement made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on the very vexed question of air fares as they relate to overseas countries, and in particular to the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. On each occasion the report has been one of self-adulation in which the Government has sought to justify the position that has been taken by Australia in both multilateral and bilateral negotiations with overseas countries, particularly those in the ASEAN region. One can only ask the question: How much longer are we to be subjected to these reports, which seek to convey to the Parliament and to the community at large that al! is well in the negotiations between the ASEAN countries and Australia? 
It goes without saying that the Australian community, indeed this Parliament if it had such an opportunity, would be in favour of considerable reductions in fares for those who are fortunate enough to be able to travel overseas. I do not think that there would be any point of conflict on that issue. However, it has to be restated that for more than a year there has been a degree of procrastination and delay in implementing that objective, an objective that has been challenged by the countries in the ASEAN region which profit from the stop-overs that had hitherto been part of the process of travel between Australia and Asia and from Australia via Asia to Europe generally. The report that  Senator Chaney,  on behalf of the Minister, has presented to the Senate for consideration again seeks to suggest that there is not a great deal of conflict between our position and the position of the ASEAN countries. That simply and blandly states the position and ignores the obvious reality that whatever we may do in pursuing the objective of providing reduced air fares for Australians we must do at the expense of some of the existing processes. If it is possible to reduce air fares other than in that way, why have we waited until 1979 to do so? Why have we had to have our arms twisted? Why have we been forced to take the sort of unilateral action we have taken, clearly at the expense of those in the ASEAN region? 
It has been said many times, although I do not want to canvass this particularly, that our relations with the ASEAN countries are paramount, that they are the cornerstone of our foreign policy considerations in our own region, and that we cannot take independent action because we may affect our relations with those countries. Of course, it was in justification of that premise that we backed off from what was happening in Timor and have refused to become involved in other areas of conflict, whether in relation to trade union matters in Malaysia or whatever. When it comes to the nitty-gritty, when it comes to the question of our interests against those of the ASEAN countries, we have been adopting what can be described only as a dog-in-the-manger position. 
Our endeavours to reduce air fares- and we all support that aim- have been at the expense of stop-overs in the countries of South East Asia. We see our opportunity to reduce air fares by cutting out some of the stop-overs which, by their very nature, must be a cost factor. Yet the mere suggestion of that, the mere determination of that, understandably and perhaps properly, from the point of view of the interests of the ASEAN countries, has aroused a very violent reaction. To those countries the stop-overs represent a very important income-earning capacity. There is a point of conflict. 
I appreciate that I have an advantage over other senators in that I had a chance to study the statement before it was made available to my colleagues. It is ludicrous and pious of the Government to seek to convey the view that we are not in an area of conflict or confrontation. It would be better if we were to put our cards on the table and to say to the Australian Parliament, to the Austraiian people and to the ASEAN countries that there are areas in which there is a conflict of interest. Pursuant to that, some compromise has to be made if we are to meet the objections that have been made by the ASEAN countries. Clearly, if one were to study the terms of trade with those countries and if one were to study the cash inflow of those countries one would have to admit that Australians have a very substantial spending capacity in Singapore, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur and so on. There are quite useful additives to the domestic economics of those countries. Therefore, one can understand the very strong statements which have emanated from the capitals of the ASEAN countries as we have taken steps to reduce the number of overseas landings and stop-overs in our pursuit of a lower air fares policy. 
I find it inconceivable that the Government should seek in this statement to convey the impression that there was cordiality and understanding of the Australian position in the recent talks. The mere fact that ministerial discussions were necessary and that not only the Minister for Transport but also the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  had to attend those discussions only highlight the degree to which there is a very serious point of conflict between the Australian position and the position of the ASEAN countries. The ASEAN countries are insisting, in their interests, that the provision of stop-overs should be maintained, firstly, because of the accommodation they can provide and, secondly, because of the degree to which certain Australian tourist funds are expended in those countries. But to read the statement, one would think that it meant that all has been resolved; that there is no difference of opinion; that there is no conflict of interest between them and us. We of the Oppostition object to such platitudes being expressed. On page 1 of the statement the following remark appears: 
We were all in agreement that there is a need to lower air fares . . . 
We are all in favour of motherhood. Who would disagree with that? On page 2 the statement went on to state: 
It was the consensus of the ministerial meeting that lower air fares should be negotiated as soon as possible between Australia and each ASEAN member country. 
The entire statement ignores the basic point at issue. The attitude adopted by the Australian 
Government has been the subject of a lot of adverse comment by the ASEAN countries. It has to be understood that the ASEAN countries want to participate in the Australia-UK-Europe low aif fare scheme, but that they do not want to participate in it at the expense of the stop-over principle. They have made that point very clearly in all their public declarations. It might well be that in the cordiality of discussions and dinners we were able to present our point of view. We do not contest that. But in this statement no mention is made of the fact that our interests clearly run counter to the interests of the ASEAN countries and that those countries have a point of view which cuts right across the declared and professed aim of this Government. For example, the ASEAN countries have suggested that the present first-class and economy-class arrangements between us and countries overseas should be maintained. They have suggested the introduction of a new element of reduced air fares related to dual advance bookings which would enable the maintenance of principles which I suppose could only be described as constituting a stop-over proposal. One can appreciate their having that point of view, seeking as they do to have access to the lucrative Australian tourist industry. 
On reading the document one gains the impression that the people of the ASEAN countries are lined up waiting to come to Australia- that it is a two-way process. We know that that is not the case and that what is in the minds of the ASEAN countries is the capacity of a country such as Australia, with a higher living standard than theirs, to spend countless Australian dollars in the market places of the ASEAN countries. Clearly the Ministers were not able to resolve the problem, despite the cordiality which existed, to use the expression used in the ministerial statement. This continues to be apparent in the statements that are being made. Questions concerning this matter have been asked in this place. Today a question was asked about air fares between Australia and Japan. We are already under a great deal of criticism from the Dutch authorities. We have been under great pressure from other European countries. Clearly we will be under a great deal of criticism from those countries which are affected by the Government's current attitude. 
I do not believe that it is proper that the Government should present such a plausible statement as this and should suggest that the problem which the Ministers could not resolve at the recent discussions in Jakarta will now be resolved at the technocrat level. After all, according to the statement, negotiations have been going on now for more than six months. As we well know, they were going on throughout the whole of 1978. They have been going on for considerably more than a year. If the problem could not be resolved last year at the technocrat level and if it could not be resolved at the ministerial meeting held within only the past few weeks, I fail to see how we can accept with any degree of enthusiasm the way in which this statement has been presented for our consideration. We have been told that the matters are still to be discussed at the technocrat level- at the officer levelrather than at the level at which government policy is determined. It is because of those considerations that we find the statement unsatisfactory. The Minister stated that the ASEAN Ministers put before the Australian Government and the Australian negotiators: 
. a proposal to enter into the carriage of end to end traffic between Australia and the United Kingdom-Europe, which they consider will not in any way jeopardise our cheap air fare arrangements with our European partners. 
The statement went on to state that this 'should be put to urgent study'. Is that not what the officers of the Minister concerned,  Mr Nixon,  and the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs have been discussing at officer level for the past six or seven months? It seems to me that the document therefore fails to inform the Parliament about the real problem that we have to concern ourselves with- whether in fact we consider our interests to be paramount or whether in fact we take into consideration the interests of those countries that clearly will be affected by the cheap air fare policies. There should be a clear definition of where we are going. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of claims by soft drink manufacturers that the price of soft drink in Australia could be reduced if CSR Ltd or the Australian Sugar Board made brewers' liquid sugar available to them at the same price as it is sold to brewers generally throughout the country? As there is a difference of $45 per tonne in the prices paid for the two forms of sugar, will it not be in the interests of the fight against inflation for soft drink manufacturers to have access to the cheaper sugar, ingredient and not be discriminated against as they have suggested is the case in submissions to the Government. 
I present the following petition from 62 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
. Restore twice-yearly pension payments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of A. W.E. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I think the Government's decision to make available the analyses of election results and redistribution proposals is a very useful decision. It is a useful exercise in informing the Parliament and the community of voting trends that can now perhaps be looked at in a much more impartial way than previously. Perhaps it will lead to a more intelligent approach to parliamentary and public debate about redistribution. I think that most people believe that the Government of the day- whichever government is charged with the responsibility of redrawing boundaries- has somehow or other influenced the course of events for political or electoral advantage. These analyses may enable us to overcome that viewpoint which is probably an honestly held viewpoint. Of course, in the past that viewpoint did have some credence particularly in a number of States. Perhaps one could say in respect to Queensland that without doubt it would be a viewpoint that had not only credence but also acceptability that fair electoral distribution does not exist in Queensland. 
The fact that the Government is prepared to make available this information for consideration by the Parliament seems to me to be a step in the right direction. At some stage in the future I would like to see the Government have a closer look at the whole electoral process in this country. Whatever happens, redistribution inevitably creates- this is due to the basis on which subdivisions are established- a feeling that a different result could accrue in a number of key electorates depending on where those subdivision boundaries are placed. Therefore, I would prefer to see a system developed where we would have not only single electorate constituencies but also some people elected to the House of Representatives from the whole of the State by a system of proportional representation. This would clearly show the expressed will of the people insofar as the party which obtained the majority of votes would, of course, be adequately represented in the Houses of Parliament. But that, of course, is a matter on which I have a personal view. It is not necessarily the view of my party and I do not speak on its behalf in this respect. I think any attempt made by governments to provide us with this sort of analysis, particularly the sort suggested by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  is worth while. It does not even constitute any consideration of the Distribution Commissioners' attitudes. In that respect, that is probably a wise step to take at this moment. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Senate is being given a rather unique opportunity because, as far as I can gather, this is only the third occasion on which the Parliament has had an opportunity to discuss, debate and deliberate upon the activities of the national security organisation called the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation since its establishment in the 1 940s. That in itself raises a very important question because, as the Hope report indicated, it is a body that is operating, on many occasions illegally, outside the scrutiny and the consideration of the national Parliament. In 1956, when the principal Act was amended, we had an opportunity to speak about the operations and the activities of this clandestine Organisation and we have again been given that opportunity. 
No matter what might be said by Government senators, and I think they have been fairly conspicuous by their failure to match the Opposition in the debate  speaker  by  speaker,  it does appear to be the attitude of this Government in particular- it was the philosophical position over the years of the previous coalition governmentsthat anything goes as far as the activities of ASIO are concerned. What we are being asked to do in respect of this piece of legislation is virtually to continue to give that Organisation a blank cheque. 
Nowhere in any of the debates have we really had an analysis of the activities of ASIO. A number of arguments have been advanced about the need for a body such as ASIO. I do not contest the fact that in the world of today we need to have an organisation concerned with intelligence gathering in the area of terrorism. But, after all, the original concept of the Chifley Government 30-odd years ago was to establish an organisation to investigate and to consider the bona fides of public servants who would have access to classified or secret information. Of course, what we have seen in the intervening years has been a considerable broadening and a considerable extension of that original charter to the degree that the civil liberties of many people in this country have been affected. 
I want to deal with some aspects of that because I think we are entitled, during these very brief encounters with ASIO, to examine the way in which ASIO operates. I do not believe that it operates in accordance with its charter and I do not believe that it will necessarily operate in accordance with the legislation that will be passed by both Houses of this Parliament. I find myself agreeing with the views that have been expressed that the fact that we have a particular head of ASIO who is operating in accordance with protocol, in accordance with principles and in accordance with the legislation does not mean that we have to put our faith in that individual when in fact the legislation does not protect properly the interests of the people who are affected by the activities of this Organisation. The mere presentation of this Bill evokes a great number of fears in those who are concerned about civil liberties in Australia. The fundamental flaw in the legislation now before the chamber is that practically no attempt has been made by this Government to establish any fundamental watchdog procedures that would constrain ASIO within the bounds of the law and within the wishes of the Parliament and of the Australian people. 
It may well be, of course, that because we now live in a more open society, in a more liberalminded society, some minor constraints need to be placed on the activities of this Organisation. For example, in the 1950s and 1960s when the cold war mentality permeated the Parliament and the thinking of the Australian community, one could not have foreseen that even these minor steps could have been taken towards some degree of public accountability. I suppose that some progress is being made in this legislation but I do not believe that it adequately protects the basic interests of those people in Australia who are affected by its operation. The operation of ASIO under this legislation does not even come close to the implementation of this Government's own political philosophy on individual rights and responsibilities. The Liberal Party platform states: 
The Liberal Party vigorously advocates individual liberty and the fundamental rights of freedom of speech, organisation, assembly, procession, religion and non-violent dissent. Controls over the free actions of the individual are to be avoided unless there is clear evidence that the similar rights of others and the protection of the community require the imposition of controls. 
Does that sort of philosophy exist in this legislation? I suggest that the amendment moved by the Opposition is more in line with the philosophy of the Liberal Party than the legislation itself. The intention of this Bill is to broaden the powers of ASIO and legitimise its previously illegal activities. Even the Government concedes that it has operated in that way. It was also indicated in the Hope report. Under this legislation the powers of ASIO to spy and snoop are to remain almost limitless. The legislation excludes the organisation and the DirectorGeneral from public accountability and parliamentary control. As my colleague  Senator Cavanagh  said, the special powers to be granted to ASIO, including powers of forced entry, search, removal of documents, bugging and the interception of mail, pose a grave threat to personal freedoms and open up a whole range of abusive activities. 
We have no evidence that those who have been responsible in the past for the abuses referred to in the Hope report have in any way been brought to book. Why should one section of the Australian community which has acted in this way be outside the bounds of the law? Anybody else who transgresses the law, whether he is in the political field or in commercial practice, is brought to book. We have not been told whether officers who have been involved in a transgression of the law have been demoted, removed, retired or in any way censured for those grave breaches of protocol, regulations and proper activities which hitherto were supposedly the way in which they should operate. This Bill and the associated Bills with which we will deal in no way confirm in the minds of Opposition senators that we can have any confidence that those abuses will be contained, simply because a particular director-general, due to his own personality and integrity, occupies a balanced position. I agree with  Senator Missen  that that is not a sufficient safeguard to protect us from the past or from the future. 
What does this Bill do? It flows in the opposite direction to the manner in which all other security organisations operate throughout the worldthose about which we have any public information. It is directly contrary to overseas trends. In particular it is contrary to practice in the United States of America, a country which has learnt from bitter experience the dangers of an unrestrained political police force. In that country there has been a spate of legislative and judicial activity designed to guarantee the protection of civil liberties. There are special safeguards within the Constitution to protect the rights of the individual. There are organisations concerned with civil liberties and the protection of the democratic rights of the people. Even so, the intelligence organisations in that country have thumbed their noses and carried out a whole range of illegal activities which can only cause concern to the whole of the democratic world. Admissions have been made concerning bribery and corruption, assassinations, the overthrowing of legal government and so on. 
The recent American Freedom of Information Act, the Church report and the Pike report all show the direction which the United States is taking to deal with this very question. Yet this legislation is no more than one tentative step forward in the direction of public accountability of the activities of ASIO. The public ventilation of the abuses in the United States in the reports to which I have referred has contributed to a curbing of the oppressive powers of organisations such as the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. There is no excuse for us. We in Australia have been told that various political police forces have engaged in illegal, discriminatory and oppressive activities. They have been exposed many times and in great detail. I refer in particular to the White report. After a perusal of a sample of 41,000 dossiers,  Mr Justice  White from South Australia said: 
I have seen a number of cards where information, patently false to my knowledge, has been used to the attempted disadvantage of certain persons . . . 
My perusal of Special Branch files shows that many hundreds of people have done nothing more than take an active part in many causes which time and changing opinion have usually proved them to be right . . . campaigns against involvement in the Vietnam war or conscription for the purposes of that war, the importance of the environment and ecology and so on. They are the kinds of activities that active persons with a social conscience and a vision of a better Australia are entitled to be involved in without the brand of suspected subversion . . . 

 Senator Puplick referred to the report of the New South Wales Privacy Committee entitled 'The Special Branch: Criminal Records in New South 
Wales'. That report shows that in the States in which Labor governments have taken steps to protect the civil rights of people and the right of legitimate political activity, groups of up to 100,000 people at certain times have had their names included and their activities noted in dossiers. This surely raises questions about the way the security body operates in order to protect the security of this nation. It seems to me that we have not really looked at the way in which ASIO itself operates. It consists of part time operators and full time professionals. What are their qualifications? Are we prepared to leave somebody else to determine the qualifications of such persons to operate allegedly in the defence of the security of this country? 
What is the mental attitude of the people who are sought out to become part-time operatives of ASIO? What is their political attitude? What is their religious attitude? What is their attitude towards the Jewish community, blacks and homosexuals? Surely these are relevant questions when these people will operate at a subterranean level of our community with a view to collecting information which is not necessarily related to the security of the country. Are these people with a balanced viewpoint or are they people with an unbalanced viewpoint? Many people have warped views about a whole variety of issues. Are those sorts of psychological considerations involved when part time or professional ASIO agents are paid by this Government and this Parliament to operate in the interests of the Australian people? Are they people who are bigoted about religious matters or prejudiced about political matters? Are they intelligent people? Are they able to make assessments about your political activities,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  or about my political activities? Are they efficient and even-handed, healthy in mind and spirit? What is their integrity and professional honesty? None of these things are provided for in this piece of legislation. 
Before I deal with a matter which is a little more substantive, I want to refer to my own experience. Some 10 years ago I was fortunate enough to see my security file which was made available to me by a top official in the Returned Services League. I was surprised to find the comments that were made on that security file. They were in line with  Mr Justice  White's general summation in his submission to the South Australian Parliament. It was stated that I was friendly with a particular girl. According to their warped mind, I was friendly with this girl because her father was concerned with shipping movements. Accordingly to them there was no physical attraction to the girl. I took her out not because in some way I liked her but because I had some sort of subversive attitude. I was interested in her because her father was connected with shipping movements. This was on the file in 1939. It is true that this was prior to ASIO being established; nevertheless it was on the ASIO file. 
I will mention another case. When I was active in the Labor youth organisation I was invited to some classes on Marxism. I said yes. The person involved took me through a whole series of buildings out to the back, where there was, I suppose, some sort of a hideout, in order to discuss with me the question of Marxism. When I look back on it I remember that there was great excitement in those days for an 18 or 19-year-old person to have this happen to him. That person subsequently made some comments which appeared on that file. I do not know whether he made those comments because I rejected an improper suggestion that he made to me; but the fact is that things that appeared on the file disturbed me very greatly. Yet we are not given access to this sort of information. On that file- there is no doubt that it is a file dealing with me- my birth date is wrong; my mother's name is wrong; my father's business is wrong; as to the company for which I worked, whilst the first part of the name was correct, the rest of the name of the company was incorrect; my Australian Imperial Force number was wrong; the date on which I enlisted was wrong; and the date on which I entered camp was wrong. Yet the file included a great deal more on my personal and political activities. 
Unfortunately, my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  is not present in the chamber. When there was a dispute in my local Labor Party branch during the split in 1956, I was accused, according to this file, of having a bias against the Catholic Church and causing 28 members to be put out of the branch. The decision to reform my local Labor Party branch was made by  Mr Colbourne  and  Mr Mulvihill  because of the activities of some of the people in the branch. Yet on that file I am identified as a person who hates and has no time for Catholics. That is not my position at all. It is important for us to know whether the people who make these sorts of assessments and judgments about people's attitudes have a competence to make those judgments and to put them on a file. The information appears not only on the ASIO files but also in the State police special branch files. Some people have suggested- I do not reject the suggestion out of hand as Government senators may dothat this information probably goes on to the files of the Central Intelligence Agency. It has been suggested that there is an interlocking or an exchange of information. It is that sort of activity that  Mr Justice  Hope has condemned out of hand. 
The period to which I am referring was when a  Mr Spry-  I think he might have been knighted; that is what this Government mostly does to people who do its dirty bidding- was in charge of ASIO. This is when this sort of information and these dossiers were collected on people. For example, he was the person in charge of ASIO who provided the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  with a list of communists. On the subsequent day the then Prime Minister had to say that he was wrongly advised. He withdrew the allegation that  Mr Cavanagh,  as he was at that time- a bona fide and active member of the Australian Labor Party- was communist. What sort of disciplinary action has been taken against those people who have put this information in documents which may well finish up in public libraries or in archives- information that will be used in judgment upon those of us who have been engaged all of our lives in legitimate political activities? I have never been, and never will be, engaged in any subversive activity. I know and, in fact, most other members of the Australian Labor Party know that they have their names on lists kept by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. In fact, they might even have their names on lists associated with the Australian Security Intelligence Service which operates under the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
If we examine the activities of security organisations, we find that Australia is not the only country which does not take disciplinary action or bring people to book for the bad and unfair things they have done. I have yet to see or hear of any action being taken against the American intelligence organisations as a result of their failure to protect the life of former  President  Kennedy. There has never been any suggestion that, somehow, the security organisations failed in their task as, indeed, the security organisations in this country failed in their task to protect the honoured overseas guests in the Hilton Hotel bombing outrage. There was a clear deficiency on the part of our security organisations. 
We are not even allowed to discuss the matter or to ask questions. Unfortunately my party played the same game when it was in government. The attitude adopted is that we will not discuss the matter or in any way answer questions, because that has been the practice for 30 years. It was the practice in the United States of America; but, fortunately, the legislative arm and public opinion in that country have brought about a sufficient change in attitudes to lead the American Congress to exercise some control over the activities of its intelligence organisations. It was not until the then  Senator Murphy  became Attorney-General and exercised some very genuine consideration and jurisdiction over ASIO that we were able to get to the bottom of the horrible Croatian terrorism that was plaguing many parts of our Yugoslav communities- terrorism that could be described only as intimidation of people who did not want to be involved in terrorism and who did not want to be put in a position of being forced to take a partisan political view in their new, adopted country. 
I find it amazing that this Government and the media moguls try to describe  Senator Murphy's  visit to the organisation in Melbourne for which he was responsible as constituting a raid when he had present Commonwealth Police officers and members of his own staff who were concerned with the problems of Croatian terrorism and the impending visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. The invitation had been extended to the Prime Minister during the life of the previous government.  Senator Murphy  was carrying out his proper constitutional obligations, not only to the Government and the Parliament, but also to the people of Yugoslavia, by protecting the person of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia. In order to establish what happened it ought to be said in this debate that there was a meeting of interdepartmental heads from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Attorney-General's Department and several other departments whose names do not immediately come to mind. At this meeting a decision was made not to give the Australian Labor Party Government any information that differed from that which had been given to the previous Government. Fortunately, from the point of view of the safety and the future of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, an agent of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation correctly reported that matter to the Attorney-General. It was on the basis of that information that some senior public servants, who are on the ASIO payroll as part-time informants, deliberately set out to refuse to make available to the Government of the day, the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General, basic information concerning the visit to this country of a friendly foreign head of government.  Senator Murphy  took steps to check whether that information was being kept from the Australian Government and he established to his satisfaction that it was. I would hope that disciplinary action was taken. I do not know whether it was. Sometimes it is difficult to know when a person is shifted sideways, upwards or downwards. If a person is shifted downwards it means a demotion, but if he is shifted upwards or sideways it is difficult to work out whether that represents a reprimand or a censure for the person concerned. I do not know- Parliament is never told these thingswhether that was the reason for  Mr Barbour's  change and for the subsequent appointment of  Mr Justice  Woodward. If it were not I ask: Who were the other officers and people, who have not been publicly identified, who made a decision to withhold proper information from 'the properly constituted and elected Government'- that wonderful group of words that keeps coming into debates in this Parliament. 
I have been told that ASIO operates within the Parliament; that there are people in the Parliament who report on the activities of the Parliament. I have been told that members of the Parliament are part-time informants for ASIO. Why should they not be placed in Parliament as they were placed in all other Australian organisations? They are in trade unions.  Senator Bishop  would know that. Some years ago articles were written in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by a special correspondent which stated that ASIO informants were in parents and citizens organisations, in progress associations, in returned services leagues, in trade unions and in political parties. In other words, wherever there are political activities and places where decisions have to be made, then the arm of ASIO operates. It operates within the Parliament. I think it is about time that the Government told us about some of these sorts of activities. I think it is about time that the Government came clean. Take the example of the case involving  Mr Coleman  who could have become the Premier of New South Wales. I refer to the accusations of Robert Mayne made on the program  This Day Tonight  on 9 February 1978. These allegations were made no more than a year ago.  Mr Mayne  states: 
I was approached about 2 years ago by a very wealthy Sydney businessman, the son of a Sydney knight - 
It is amazing how these knights keep turning up- and he invited me to the American Club in Sydney and said, I am having a Liberal MLA come along and an officer from ASIO. We went to lunch and we discussed the production of this magazine which was to be called 'The Analysis'. They were to provide me with the information; the information was to come from ASIO files, as they later gave me; I was to write it and they were to pay me a thousand dollars a year to do it. We went to lunch. I met the man from ASIO. His name was Redford, and who according to the Prime Minister, is still with the organisation. 
Has any disciplinary action been taken against  Mr Redford  or against Peter Warren? Honourable senators may ask: Who is Peter Warren? He is the son of  Sir Edward  Warren. I would not call him a captain of industry. He would be a general, if we look at the number of business companies with which he is associated. He is in so many places.  His  son is an ASIO agent. He was the person who set up this operation. What is his background? He was bom with a silver spoon in his mouth. He is a man who would have obvious prejudices, unless he were an extraordinary man. I would have grave doubts about that as he is the son of a knight.  His  brother is a business tycoon in Sydney, Australia.  Mr Warren  is engaged in an organisation which sits in judgment upon trade unionists. I wonder what sort of objective assessment he could make about delegates of the miners federation from one of his father's mining companies, or the shop steward from one of the metal engineering companies operated in the Sydney region in which his father has a vested interest. He probably has a vested interest in it too. These are the sorts of people who are recruited to ASIO. 
I am talking now about the full-time people in ASIO. Let us look at some of the people who are recruited to ASIO on a part-time basis. I remind honourable senators of the young gentleman who was arrested here in the early part of last year. I did not seek out his name but he was recruited to work for ASIO. Honourable senators will remember that he went to an embassy. He was a lad less than 19 years of age. The moment he was put on the payroll he decided that he was going to do something else. That is the kind of 1 8 and 1 9-year old person who is asked to become a part-time operative for ASIO. Let us look at the case of Janet Langridge. I asked the Government about this matter a year or so ago. She made a statutory declaration and she was sent to me by a Sydney barrister to whom she had given certain information. When I asked a question of the Minister, he said: 'No comment'. Three times in 30 years we are able to comment about this matter; so here I go. The declaration by Janet Langridge of Coulter Street, Gladesville states: 
On or about 8 August 1 976 1 was interviewed by 2 persons who identified themselves as working for ASIO. 
Their names were Terry Poulos and a person called Ken. I was asked to attend meetings of the Young Socialist League and later I made contact with the Spartacist League, and report on a monthly basis for which I was paid personally in cash $30 a month. 
From February 1977, 1 was offered a full-time salary, and was given to understand that I should not mention to the TEAS Authorities that I was in receipt of this income - 
Here we have the case of ASIO agents asking a young girl to break the law by not stating this income on the declaration required in respect of her Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowance- an allowance payable under legislation enacted by this Parliament. That is the first thing that is asked of her. The statement continues: 
My salary was $600 per month which sum was initially paid in cash to me, but more recently partly in cash and partly into the St George Building Society Account No. 17-35 1849 directly by the organisation (ASIO). In return for this remuneration I understood my duties were to report on the identities of the members of the Spartacist League and substance of the debate and resolutions passed at their meetings. 
I was led to believe that reports on the personal associations of the members, relationships and habits, would be of use to the organisation. 
We have here an organisation, which the Government claims is respected and has been reformed, asking this girl to investigate and report upon the social habits of her friends, her colleagues. Is that regarded as legitimate? Is that regarded as right? Is that regarded as proper in the defence of a principle? What principle is involved here that we should concern ourselves with people's personal habits? They may have body odour, they may have certain sexual preferences- I would not know- but what has that to do with the security of this country? Miss Langridge 's statement continues: 
On the 1 1th June I voluntarily informed  Mr Tom  Kelly solicitor, of my involvement with ASIO and with my consent a tape recording of the interview was made. On 12th June 1977 I spoke to Terry Poulos and indicated that I no longer wished to continue my association with the organisation. On the 15th June, Terry Poulos and Laurie Pollard - 
Under this Bill I am committing breaches if I identify ASIO agents - both as members of ASIO, visited me at my flat and indicated that they wanted me to sign a statement refuting the unsigned transcript in the possession of Tom Kelly. 
Here again they are asking a young girl to sign a statement which was not in accordance with the facts. 
I believe we have to take it for granted that this organisation needs to be accountable to this Parliament. We cannot tolerate an organisation like this, operating at it has in the past, where there is this type of activity- the recruitment of young people and prejudiced people; the recruitment of members of parliament to spy upon their colleagues; the recruitment of senior members of the Public Service to do likewise. The legislation which we are being asked to approve does not provide in any way the sorts of safeguards necessary unless the amendments that the Opposition proposes to move in the Committee stage are accepted. In looking at security organisations and the people who really make the decisions for our society, the only experience I can draw upon, in addition to the United States experience, is what happened in Europe prior to World War II. When countries such as Hungary, Romania and Poland were threatened with invasion by the fascist forces of Mussolini and Hitler, the people who sold out and co-operated with the advancing forces, the people who made the decisions which placed their countries in jeopardy, the people who placed the security of their countries second to their own position in society, were those in the business and corporate sectors of society. I recall reading that Thyssen, the big German industrialist, described how he had contributed towards the development of the subversive organisation from within. He said that he had financed and encouraged the development of the Nazi Party. 
Where were the intelligence organisations then in protecting the security of those countries? The threat did not come from the radicals or from the people's movements; it came from those who exercised real power within the community. If we look at the evidence that is available to us- I am talking particularly of  Mr Coleman, Mr Redford  and  Mr Warren-  we realise that it was the same types of people in the European countries who, when the security of their countries were threatened, facilitated the terrible tragedy of Europe. 
There is no evidence that ASIO concerns itself with what happens in the corporate sector of our society. In fact the evidence from  Mr Justice  White,  Mr Justice  Hope and  Mr Wran's  privacy committee is to the contrary. The evidence is that the spy, the infiltrator, the part-time eavesdropper and snooper concern themselves with legitimate political activity. 
Today it is political activity of a completely different nature. Ten years ago it was the war in Vietnam and the problems of conscription. Today we are concerned about uranium mining. We are concerned with what has happened in the United States these last few days. People have a legitimate reason to be concerned about that event. There is no reason to suggest that people who march next Friday and Saturday in various cities of the Commonwealth constitute any sort of threat to the civil rights or security of this country, yet that is where ASIO agents will be. They will be there taking photographs. Its members will be trying to identify  Mr and Mrs A, 
B and C, trying to put their names in dossiers. That is what happened in respect of Fraser Island, Lake Pedder and Black Mountain when concern was expressed about the ecological problems existing in our country. ASIO is headed in the wrong direction. It is not aimed at areas where experience shows it is needed- the surveillance of the top echelons of our country. If there is to be surveillance at all there ought to be some surveillance of the activities of those particular organisations. 
Subversion is defined in this Bill in such a wide way as to place everybody in that category. It is defined as follows: 
Activities that involve, will involve, or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts. 
Who determines that? Is it the people I have referred to who recruit kids at universities? What type of individual really believes he can go on to a university campus to recruit people within the interpretation of that definition? Ostensibly they are able to say: 'It is our opinion that that person may involve himself in some unlawful act'. Who can make that sort of judgment? Make no mistake about it, such a judgment has been made on me. I have heard it far and wide. But it is one that is not true. It is one that in no way can be borne out by attitudes, actions, statements or life style, yet that sort of judgment is entered upon thousands of files that still operate in some way, shape or form. I am surprised to hear such a person as  Senator Hamer  say that we ought not to be too excited about dossiers and ask: 'What is wrong with having it on a dossier?' If there is no value in having such information on a dossier, if we follow the honourable senator's illogical thinking to its conclusion, what is the point in having it at all? Is it, as has been suggested, that ASIO would make it available to different organisations, as has been done in the past? If there is no value in it, if it cannot do the individual any harm, what is the point in having it? 
In the 30 years during which this information has been collated, what person has been arrested, imprisoned or charged in our country to show that anyone is operating against Australia 's overall interest? Certainly, we all have views about the operation of our laws and the policies of governments, but I will guarantee that in other circumstances  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  could be one of the heads of ASIO. That is the sort of person who would be put in ASIO- a prejudiced, warped, bigoted man such as the Premier of Queensland.  His  attitude is such that he even claims that one of the Government senators is a red ragger because he dares to stand up and be counted in respect of the problems of the people in his State- one who obviously, because of the attitude that is taken by the ultra-conservatives, will be battling to remain a member of the Senate. But I submit that probably that is the sort of person whose sentiments are overwhelmingly those of the people who go to make up ASIO. 
Information in respect of Croatian terrorism had to be dragged out of ASIO. If we examine the list of people which  Senator Murphy  presented as being involved in Croatian terrorism, the ones whose names he elicited and made available in the records of the Senate, we find that they were people who had been engaged in acts of intimidation of violence and unlawful acts generally. They are not suitable people. We know the wrath that fell upon the head of  Senator Murphy  in trying to elicit that information. Such evidence as is available- it is neither overwhelming nor compelling; we are dealing with a clandestine organisation about whose operations we can get only a glimpse- is sufficient to show that it ought to be investigated in the same way as, in the United States, the Church Committee has examined the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Surely no one will suggest that  Senator Church, Mr Pike  and the other members of the United States Congress who have been involved in the public scrutiny of these organisations have improper motivations, or that they are actuated by any but the highest ideals. 
Surely no one would suggest that the Opposition is not taking the same approach in this matter. Surely no one would suggest that those disclosures and that penetration of the way in which those organisations have operated in that country have weakened in any way the security of the United States of America. On the contrary, I believe they have strengthened it. The American people have been shown that they have members of the Congress and members of the Senate who are prepared to perform their proper legislative obligations to examine the activities of organisations which spend large sums of money in the pursuit of what are considered to be the illegitimate activities of the people concerning whom they collect information. 
I ask whether it is any wonder that  Mr Justice  Hope, in summing up ASIO's capacity for intelligence assessment, wrote so despairingly:  1 must report that I saw little evidence in ASIO that the qualities of mind and expertise needed were recognised, or available in any large measure. 
The extent of the incompetence to which he referred was well documented. His report is pervaded by references, both direct and indirect, to the conservative, biased and conspiratorial political beliefs and activities of the organisation, its operatives and its sponsors, who are the conservative elements of this country. 
Some 12 or 13 years ago my wife applied for a position as a librarian with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's establishment at Lucas Heights. She obtained that position, subject to a security clearance. She is a professionally-trained librarian. It happened to be a local job and was one which she had the expertise to carry out. As there was an ASIO file on her, she did not get the clearance. The only crime that I can imagine my wife ever committing politically is that of being married to me, and of having had some genuine concern about the war in Vietnam. This was later to develop. She then voluntarily gave her services as a librarian to the organisation that was concerning itself with the struggle concerning Vietnam. She was given no reason for being denied the clearance. She was not spoken to, interviewed or in any way given an opportunity to refute the sort of value judgment that denied her that position. Is that really an expression of the liberalism for which, supposedly, this Government stands? 
I was very disappointed to note the attitude adopted, with one or two exceptions, by Government supporters in this matter. One would have thought that they would have been as concerned as we are to protect the rights and civil liberties of the people of Australia. Those files, dossiers, statements- or whatever one likes to call themare compiled on the political activists of this country. Whether we agree with the views of such persons or not is not particularly important; whether they are people on the far Left, the far far Left, on the far Right or the far far Right is important. I have in mind a person such as the Premier of Queensland. For example, I saw today a letter from  Mr Charles  Porter in which he refused even to discuss with the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Australia,  Dr Everingham,  the problems of Aborigines in Queensland. That gives some indication of the way in which people with that kind of thinking operate in the democratic processes of our country. Unfortunately, it has to be said that such people have too much influence in ASIO. 
It is no wonder that  Mr Justice  Hope made the comment, which I cannot put my finger on precisely at the moment, that legitimate political activity had to be protected at all costs. It will not be protected if ASIO, under its charter, past, present or future, uses the same sort of personnel and adopts the same sort of attitudes as it has for the last 30 years- people of prejudice, people of the belief that everybody who engages in legitimate political activity in some way can be involved in unlawful acts and subversive action, and is thus a threat to the democracy in which we live. 
Those of us who are in the radical movement surrender to no one our defence of the principles of liberty and freedom, of the right of assembly or of any of the principles that are embodied in the platform of the Liberal Party. Those principles are ours also, but we suggest seriously that in adopting this legislation honourable senators will not be protecting those principles; that if there is any genuine concern for those principles mature consideration will be given, not on a party-political basis, but on the basis of those very general provisions of our amendment which seek to provide for a watchdog responsibility on the part of the national Parliament and for both the Parliament and the Minister, an opportunity to exercise their rightful responsibility to protect the very liberties with which we claim to be concerned in relation to the security of our country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 November 1 978: 
1 ) What properties have been sold by the Department in each year from 1975 to 1977. 
What were the prices, who were the buyers, and what were the processes of sale, in each State. 
Is the Minister representing both the Minister for Trade and Resources and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of the claim made by the  Chairman  of the National Energy Advisory Committee,  Mr Lynch,  as reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of yesterday's date that the fuel consumed by road transport could be cut by 20 per cent in little more than ten years by appropriate technical modifications? If so, what steps is the Government taking to assess the validity of the claim? If these fuel economies are possible, what steps will the Government take to ensure that the necessary design changes are put into practice and thereby ensure that the substantial cost savings that would thus be produced in this time of rapidly rising oil prices will be available to the Australian consumer? 
This motion refers to what we believe to be the Government's silence about the scurrilous and sustained attack that is being orchestrated by the Australian Mining Industry Council for the purpose of undermining Aboriginals' rights to their own land. It is proper to refer to what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has just said. He has made one statement, that of 20 January 1979, restating the Government's position as to land rights, but he has also made a statement since the publication of the Australian Mining Industry Council's statement. Therefore, I think that we are entitled to draw attention to the inability of the Government to answer properly the statements and claims that were made in the nationally-released submission of that Council on 13 March last. In that statement, the mining magnates of this country said: 
The legislation is causing serious problems not just for the rnining industry, but for all Australians, directly and indirectly, including the Aboriginal people whose welfare the legislation is intended to enhance. These problems will continue to grow. The Council - 
That is a reference to the Australian Mining Industry Council- 
. therefore believes that the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act should be made the subject of an immediate review. 
I submit that part of the responsibilities and obligations of the Opposition, of the Labor Party, is to monitor what is happening in respect of land rights and, in fact, to keep the Government on its toes. I was pleased to note that the Minister, in his concluding remarks, at least gave us some credit for doing that. We recognise that the Australian Mining Industry Council is probably the most powerful lobby that exists in this country, not only in its own right but because it enjoys the support of such people as Lang Hancock, the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Court  and the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  as well as very important and vocal sections of the Australian media. Our concern is that this sustained campaign is designed to achieve modification of both the land rights legislation and the administration of it- modifications which, if adopted, would totally undermine the rights of Aborigines to administer and own their traditional land. 
I do not believe that the Government or the Minister are entitled to question the motives of the Opposition on this matter. We are aware that the Government's record since coming to office, in respect of a whole range of other matters, can only be described as a farrago of broken promises. Whilst the land rights legislation may be regarded as having the support of the Opposition, and of being a step forward, it falls far short of what was recommended in the Woodward report. When we look at the broken promises of the Government, and its dilly-dallying in respect of the pressures exerted on it from time to time by the powerful interests that exist in this country, we are entitled to take the view that constantly the Opposition should bring to the forefront in the Parliament the responsibilities of the Government. My leader in this debate,  Senator Cavanagh,  as a former Minister, has sufficient evidence to show that in the Northern Territory Assembly, among the miners and even within the Aboriginal Land Council itself, there are moves afoot which, if given credence and support in certain quarters of this Government, would undermine the very fabric of the legislation itself. 
We accept the fact that when the original Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill was introduced in this place on 6 December 1 976 the Government, through its Minister at the time, made a number of commitments. The Minister's second reading speech provided as follows: 
This Bill will give traditional Aboriginals inalienable freehold title to land on reserves in the Northern Territory and provide machinery for them to obtain title to traditional land outside reserves. 
It must be conceded that town areas, roads, tracks and all of the other aspects that were raised by  Senator Cavanagh  are matters of concern, surely, to the Opposition as well as to the Government itself. Of course that legislation, which enjoyed the support of the Labor Party, conceded that there was a profound association of Aborigines with their traditional land, that there were deep cultural ties and that land plays a fundamental and unique role in their cultural identity and their right to own and administer the land in perpetuity for present and future generations. Yet these fundamental tenets of the legislation are in fact under challenge by the submission of the Australian Mining Industry Council. 
I do not think that we can rest assured that a statement of the Minister necessarily protects the very fundamentals of the legislation that was passed some 14 or IS months ago. One should recognise that the mining interests, both in their statements and in their finances, are part of the support sector of the Australian Government itself and that the very purpose of this Press statement by  Mr Phillips  is designed to force the hand of the Australian Government and to bring about sufficient modifications and changes as to realise the objectives of the Australian Mining Industry Council- a body which claims to represent the views of Australia but which we know represents foreign interests. In fact, the mining of resources in this country is now substantially under the control and influence of companies that operate outside Australia. Yet the Council says in its statement that when the mining of minerals is involved the right to enjoy the surface of the land may sometimes have to give way to the rights of the community as a whole. In other words, it is advocating such change, such modification, as would seriously weaken the legislation and may even weaken the resolve of this Government, knowing as we do the pressures that the Government is under insofar as these important matters are concerned. There is a very serious conflict of interests between the Aborigines and the AMIC over the land rights legislation. 
I listened today to an answer by  Senator Durack  to a question involving our fuel and energy supplies. In that answer he suggested that all that had happened in the period of office of the Labor Government was designed to undermine the development of resources in this country. As we well know, the development of the campaign and the legislative processes that have flowed from it have been the result of the evolution in attitudes that has taken place in the Parliament itself and throughout Australia, but there are very powerful influences in this country that still do not accept the view of this Parliament insofar as land rights are concerned. If we look at what is under attack by this powerful lobby group, the most powerful lobby group that we have, we can see that there has been no repudiation from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  since the publication by the AMIC of this statement. It is all right for  Senator Chaney  to talk about the Prime Minister's statement back in January. It is all right for  Senator Chaney  to talk about the fact that he tried to persuade the Australian Mining Industry Council not to proceed with its point of view and to come more to a common position. The fact is that the Council has ignored that advice. 
Today  Senator Chaney,  to his credit, has at least committed himself in this place in a more definitive way than perhaps he did in his Press statements, which have received a degree of publication, when he said that the Government will not accede to the requests and pressures of the mining interests in this country. If that is the case, the fact that this debate is taking place is a very positive step. We believe that part of our responsibility is to keep the Government to its legislative and moral responsibilities and to repudiate, every time it is expressed, the greedy and disgusting attitude that is so often expressed by the mining magnates in this country. They are concerned only with ripping out the resources of our country and sending the profits from those ventures overseas. All their propaganda is designed to create the impression that they bring a great amount of capital into this country, that they provide a large number of work opportunities in this country and that they do not affect the infrastructure of the Aboriginal communities in any way. We know that that is not the case. Yet time and time again they present that point of view in the media of this country in an endeavour to convince the Australian people that mining, as the Australian Mining Industry Council says in this document, is in the interests of the Australian people per se. 
The document that the Council has put out suggests that the legislation divides the people. It suggests that it is an expression of apartheid; that the current land rights legislation is designed specifically to achieve this end. We know that every time a Lang Hancock, a  Sir Charles  Court or a Bjelke-Petersen opens his mouth on questions of land rights, minerals or mining that person receives 10 times more publicity than any members of this national Parliament, other than perhaps the leaders of the respective parties. We know that criticism has been levelled even at  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Trade and Resources, on the basis that he has a better understanding in 1978-79 than he had in 1973, 1974 or 1975 and that he is being accused of continuing the policy of 'Connerism'. He has seen the benefit of that policy and, on the basis of his own experiences, has seen that those policies were in the interests of the Australian people. 
We of the Opposition make no apology for bringing before the Senate a motion that says that the Government has been strangely silent about the statement of the Australian Mining Industry Council. Surely the Minister concedes that these statements of the Council are designed to enlist public support and are designed to stir the development-for-development's sake group that exists within the Government parties. It is a very powerful group. It is a very vocal group. I am pleased, and I know that the Opposition also is pleased, to have the assurance of the Minister that, so far as he is concerned, he will seek to defend the administration of the legislation and the rights of the Aboriginal people to get title to land in the Northern Territory. If we have that assurance and if we are able in this place constantly to prod the Government to maintain that position, I think we will be fulfilling a very important role. As the Minister concedes, there is in the Parliament an attitude of support for those general principles, which are being assailed, which are being challenged and which the Government is being asked to change because they do not suit the economic interests of those who seek to exploit the areas of land which we are endeavouring to have transferred to Aborigines so as to give security and to carry out our obligations on the cultural affinities that the Aborigines see in having title to land. Therefore, we do not accept the view of the Minister that we are acting capriciously. In fact, I believe that we are acting correctly and conscientiously in protecting the rights of the Aboriginal communities in our country. 
The Committee is after all dealing with clause 5 ( 1) (a) which deals with the meaning of subversion when it is not of a foreign origin. We are speaking about a domestic situation. We are speaking about activities which in the normal sense would be described as political activities whether they are associated with the protection of the environment, an industrial struggle or issues associated with a contest of opinion between one group of people and the government of the day. It is a pretty wide sort of definition because there will be differences of opinion, for example, between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government. What the members of this chamber are being asked to give their assent to is an amendment that takes out of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill the word 'ultimately' which leaves it to somebody to determine whether the activities in which a person is engaged are subversive. 
This may involve activities in a struggle of ideas between a State government and the Federal Government or anything that may lead to a forceful attitude or even the use of violence. There ought to be in this Bill provision for an assessment to be made which takes it out of the area of intent to the area of action. The intent may well be by an individual to express a point of view, to have a discussion and to participate perhaps in a demonstration in pursuance of that intent. It does not necessarily follow that that person wants to be involved in force or violence or in seeking to destroy the constitutional government. This clause seeks to give to an organisation that has been proven in the Hope report to have very considerably transgressed the law, to have transgressed in the area of normal political surveillance, to have acted illegally and improperly over a long period of years, the right to determine whether a person's involvement or whether a view that that person might have is likely ultimately to lead to a challenge to constitutional government. I think I indicated in my speech in the second reading debate the abuses that have taken place when it is left to an individual to make that sort of an assessment. 
A person having a prejudiced view or even a majority view of community attitudes at a point in time is being given the power to say that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is entitled to take the steps that this legislation gives it because it believes that a tentative action, which may only be a person sitting down in a coffee shop to talk about a particular issue, may ultimately lead to the sort of consequences that are suggested in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a). This Bill seeks to give that person the right to say that that intent, the purpose of that discussion or that action can lead ultimately to a challenge to constitutional government. I do not think the public interest is served by giving a person the right to make that sort of an assessment. 
The mere possession of an idea, the mere possession of an ideology or the mere membership of a person of a political party does not necessarily mean that that person is or groups of persons are involved in an issue which may ultimately lead to a challenge to constitutional authority. Yet that is what is implied in clause 5(1) (a). Of course it is the transgressions and the errors of judgment which have been made over the last 30 years that the Government claims, in response to the report of  Mr Justice  Hope, that it wants to remedy. But of course this in fact does not remedy it. What the legislation seeks to do now is to provide a legal framework for those sorts of transgressions to continue. I put them in the area of transgressions when officers or persons charged with responsibilities as members of ASIO have to make a value judgment upon what a person might do. This could be done in the belief that ultimately what is done at that point in time can be properly evaluated and assessed and placed in a statement or dossier or on a record in a way which may well prove to be not involved in the thinking of the person at all. 
I think it is a pretty important principle that we are fighting for in this instance because a person's adherence to an ideology does not necessarily mean that it will lead to a course of action. For example, a person can support the Irish Republic cause or he might even belong to the IRA but it does not necessarily follow that that person supports the sorts of actions that are taken by some groups within the particular organisation. As has been indicated by my colleague,  Senator Evans,  because a person belongs to the Communist Party, the Socialist Party of Australia or the Marxist-Leninist Party which pursues the views of Mao Tse-tung, the mere holding of that viewpoint, the mere expressing of that viewpoint, the mere dissemination of that viewpoint does not necessarily mean that it is likely ultimately to lead, as this legislation suggests, to a course of action that involves that person in the overthrowing or destroying of a constitutional government. I think that  Senator Evans  quite correctly drew attention to this fact that even though the constitutions of those organisations may use certain phraseology it does not necessarily follow that its members are involved in activities against a lawful and constitutional government. 
I think it was  Senator Evans  who referred to the Communist Party in this country. According to his figures we are talking about a small number of people- 2,000 to 3,000. There was at some stage, I am led to believe, a membership of perhaps 10 times that number. In pursuance of the ideology that security organisations have followed in this country they have for the last 30 years kept under surveillance all of those people who have belonged to that organisation. But what has that led to? Did it lead to prosecutions? What conclusions did it lead to in respect of what is considered in this legislation as being an ultimate position- the challenge to constitutional authority? In fact if one examined the Labor movement in more detail one would find that further to the Left of those three communist organisations there are sects and groups which may well be more militant and more determined to destroy constitutional government than those three political bodies. It does not necessarily follow from the way these groups pursue their political activities from day to day that they are going to be participants ultimately in the overthrow of constitutional government. This applies even if the constitution of a particular group says so. 
The Opposition's amendment ought to be given more consideration than it has received, particularly by senators like  Senator Puplick,  because I believe  Senator Missen  felt there was some merit in what we had to say. I am disappointed that  Senator Puplick  took a less liberal view and is endeavouring to produce evidence based on what  Mr Justice  Hope has suggested. The Government has not adopted all of  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations in respect of this legislation so it is not necessary that we take the view that we are necessarily committed because  Mr Justice  Hope or some other judicial authority overseas has expressed themselves about this or that particular aspect of the legislation. We are dealing with a domestic situation which is distinctly different. We are dealing with a political situation different from that found overseas. For example, the United States Congress and the United States legislative processes exercise a great deal more power, influence and control over the activities of their intelligence organisation. The Government is not doing that at all. The legislation here is designed to centre the power in the hands of virtually one man. If we are to use  Senator Puplick  's suggestion of overseas experience to deal with our domestic circumstances we should be moving to support much more public accountability. The Opposition seeks to have the word 'ultimately ' deleted from clause 5(1) (a). The clause is designed to protect the right of a person to hold a point of view in time which ought not to be trammelled in any way as a result of an estimation that for holding that view or for expressing that view, no matter what form of political activity he is involved in, he should be placed under some form of surveillance. 
I think that we are grateful that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  indicated in his remarks earlier that the Government regards this matter as the pivot of all of its legislation. In fact he has made it clear that the Government regards the word 'ultimate' as being a desirable power to be given to officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation so that they may make an evaluation in any given circumstance that they consider could lead to unlawful acts which would overthrow or destroy a constitutional government. In other words the Minister said that the Government wants the word 'ultimate' in the legislation because it is an open door, a wide net, that in fact can bring into the ambit of ASIO about one hundred thousand people. 
Let us look at a hypothetical case. The Australian Council of Trade Unions represents the great bulk of the Australian work force. Two honourable senators have been members of that organisation. The Government saw fit to give a knighthood to one of the members of the ACTU-  Sir John  Egerton. The constitution of that organisation seeks the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. It is possible, in fact it is more likely to be possible than probable, that certain situations will develop in time which will put the Australian Council of Trade Unions, as the titular head of the trade union movement, in conflict with the policies of the government of the day, particularly in an area of some industrial disputation. I refer, for example, to Great Britain in 1926 and in 1960-61 when a general strike was called in support of the abolition of penal clauses. 
The Government is saying in this legislation that because the constitution of the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions involves a change of society, every member who is associated with that organisation, whether at the level of the executive or any of its affiliate bodies, at any time- it may be today- can be placed under surveillance by ASIO. Does the Government seriously suggest that that is protecting the civil rights and liberties of the Australian people? We are talking about hundreds and hundreds of paid officials of trade unions. We are talking about thousands and thousands of officials who are stewards or who hold executive positions in organisations and who may at some point be called on to challenge a particular piece of legislation or be involved in a type of political activity which may be regarded as an unlawful act by this Government in all of the punitive legislation which it has brought down in respect of the trade union movement. Therefore the Government is saying that any person who is a trade unionist may be held under surveillance because in the opinion of the ASIO officer the person may ultimately be involved in a challenge to the constitutional or elected government or may be involved in an unlawful act. This is how wide the net has been thrown. 
In pursuance of that viewpoint- I thank the Minister for making it so clear to me what is involved in the Government's proposals- a person is entitled to take all those other extra steps which rest in the hands of the Director-General himself- one person. Previously there were judicial procedures and safeguards in respect of telephone bugging and breaking and entering. Where is the warrant provision which hitherto would have had to be involved in the breaking and entering of a person's home to see whether he would ultimately be involved in some unlawful act? In effect what the Government is saying is that the democratic rights and liberties will be placed in jeopardy of every person who belongs to the Australian Council of Trade Unions or to an environmental organisation that may decide to do something about the Great Barrier Reef in Queensland and so involve itself in a challenge to the view expressed by the Queensland Government that the reef ought to be mined. Let us deal with an individual Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agent who can make a value judgment as to whether a person will be ultimately involved in some unlawful act. We are allowing that person to put the great bulk of the Australian people under some form of surveillance and to record their activity on some dossier. 
Let us deal with the question of violence or force. I was involved in the demonstration spoken about by  Senator Chipp.  There is no doubt that when the police linked arms, formed a cordon across the road and forbade the balance of the demonstrators to march, the mere fact that we attempted to move was construed by the Queensland Government and by the police force to be an act of violence. 
That is right. We were pushed back against the glass. In the opinion of the authorities in that State we were involved in an act of violence or force. I recall marching with members of Parliament in the big demonstration in Sydney over the Vietnam war where the police herded us onto the footpath on the corner of George and King Streets. They pushed us from behind while the police at the traffic lights held us to stop us from moving. We were involved in force and violence in order to stay upright and to stay alive. In the opinion of the authorities we were involved in an unlawful act. Therefore, every one of those 20,000 citizens who marched in that demonstration- as would be the 100,000 who marched in the great Vietnam moratorium demonstration in Melbourne- was involved in an unlawful act which could lead, in the opinion of ASIO, to an ultimate act of violence and the overthrow of the constitutional government. If the Government is really concerned about its platform and about civil liberties then it ought to be able to see the vehemence with which the Opposition is putting forward its view, and the Government ought to accept the amendment that we have suggested. If, in fact, we are conceding that there is an intention to conspire, to plot and plan to overthrow the Government, then inherent in this legislation is the right to put that person or that group under surveillance. Then the Government ought to be able to say: Well, that is fair enough, because we are dealing with an act and an intention'. But we are taking the situation into a wider definition. We are opening the door to anybody's estimation. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in the second reading speech, conceded that there have been abuses by ASIO officers in the past. He now seeks to give them exactly the same rights to interpret the future intention of people. No government can claim to be representing the public interest, the rights of people, to be protecting the democratic rights of assembly, and the free expression of opinion and public and political activity, if it insists upon maintaining the word ultimately' in clause 5 ( 1) (a). 
-The implications of clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) have not been adequately canvassed by the Attorney-General. I find somewhat strange and in a sense improper his suggestion that the honourable senators who speculate upon the ramifications of various clauses have engaged in reprehensible conduct. A close examination of clause 5 ( 1) (b) will show not only that it is related to what may happen with respect to the defence forces but also that it has a wider definition. We are talking about 'activities directed to obstructing, hindering or interfering'. If the words 'with the performance by the Defence Force of its functions or the carrying out of other activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purposes of security or the defence of the Commonwealth' are left out we have a much wider definition than has been suggested in the debate today, certainly that part of it which was entered into rather reluctantly by the Attorney-General. I read into that the fact that the very situation that was raised by  Senator Sibraa  in his question could apply to an entirely different situation, that it is not necessarily related to a Defence Force consideration. For example, I refer to some of the disputes in which the Transport Workers Union of Australia has been involved concerning the supply of petrol. It could be said that the failure to provide fuel to the Commonwealth for the purposes of security constitutes an activity in which all of the force of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation can be brought to bear. That is a very wide definition. It is not related just to Defence Force activity. It is related to a lot of normal and lawful activities. Again we are confronted with the same sort of net as we were talking about in relation to clause 5 ( 1 ) (a). If we are concerned only with activities that hinder, obstruct or interfere with the performance of the defence forces, we ought to say just that and not go on to say 'or activities by or for the Commonwealth for the purpose of security' because that is a definition which seems to me, as a layman, to have very serious and wider implications than perhaps those drafting the legislation had in mind when they put in that provision to deal with specific questions relating to defence. 
I am pleased that  Senator Hamer  has come into the chamber, having regard to what  Senator Evans  said earlier about the type of statement that he could conceivably make at the National Press Club which would bring him into some area of surveillance because his activities could hinder, obstruct or interfere with the performance of the defence forces. This indicates that a wide net has been cast by those who framed the legislation. This chamber, which exercised unlawful activities in refusing Supply to a lawfully and constitutionally elected government in 1974 and 1975, is now charged by the AttorneyGeneral with not carrying out its proper function and with engaging in idle speculation in reviewing the legislation to see whether the words mean what they say or whether they mean much more than they say or they are alleged to say. 
I take umbrage at the suggestion that the Minister has made that we are involved in some idle speculation. I am involved in carrying out my proper constitutional responsibilities as a senator on behalf of the people of New South Wales. Not to carry out those responsibilities would put me in a position where I would fail in my obligations as an elected representative. It is a pity that Government senators were not in the chamber and participating while this debate was proceeding. Generally, we have not had more than two or three Government senators interested in the debate this evening. They do not regard it as their responsibility to be here because they have made their decision in the party room. They are not prepared to concede that definitions and an analysis of the Bill may well be properly raised in the Senate with a view to reviewing what the Government proposes in the legislation. Criticism should be levelled at the failure of most Government senators to take any intelligent interest or part in the debate. There is much more involved in the words of the third line of clause 5 (b) than the Government has sought to convey in the second reading speech and in the debate on this clause. 
I  present the following petition from 1 ,234 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees ) Act 1 97 1 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And  your  petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware of the death of Martin Ainly, found by the New South Wales City Coroner on 3 April 1979 to have been caused by inhaling a cooking spray aerosol? Has the Minister taken any steps to examine the availability of potentially lethal aerosols on the open market? If so, what is the availability of such aerosols? What dangers are involved? What steps does the Government consider can be taken to- protect consumers, particularly young people, from these dangers? 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of Press reports that a domestic electric heater known as the . 0............ Heat Bank', which is currently being sold in Melbourne, emits highly dangerous asbestos dust when operating? Has the Government taken any steps to discuss this problem with the Victorian Government and /or the Victorian State Electricity Commission, which admits to having sold this appliance? If the answer to that question is in the negative can the Minister say what steps the Government is taking or contemplates taking to warn consumers of this potentially serious health hazard? 
The Opposition has been concerned about the proposed redistribution in Western Australia. In fact, on a number of occasions I asked  Senator Chaney  when he was the Minister for Administrative Services about the process by which the Government would ultimately appoint the Commissioners. The Commissioners have now been appointed and the due process of carrying out the redistribution to create an additional seat in Western Australia is under way. However, I feel honour bound to indicate to the Senate and to the Government the concern that the Labor Party holds for the proposed redistribution in Western Australia, bearing in mind the events that took place when there was a redistibution in 1977, and to express to the Government our misgivings about the appointments that have been made. 
In no way do we cast aspersions upon any of the Commissioners as individuals. We do not in any way express a lack of confidence in their integrity. But because of what happened on the previous occasion I think we are entitled to put our concern on record. On the previous occasion the Western Australian branch of the Australian Labor Party strongly objected to the redistribution that took place in Western Australia. It was a redistribution out of which everyone- not only the Australian Labor Party, but also impartial observers- conceded that eight of the 10 seats created could be described only as safe seats for the conservative parties. Only in two of the 10 seats created was there any chance for the Australian Labor Party in any normal election to have its candidate elected whatever the vote, unless there were a landslide. 1 say advisedly that we are not convinced that with the selection of the Commissioners that  Senator Chaney  has referred to on behalf of the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  there necessarily will be a better result. We make it clear that we are expecting a better result although when one examines the personnel appointed on the previous occasion and the personnel appointed on this occasion, one can come only to the conclusion that we will get the same result. This would be unsatisfactory from the point of view of fair play and from the point of view of the party that I represent in this place. The Distribution Commissioners are the Australian Electoral Officer for Western Australia,  Mr Nicholls  again as Chairman; the SurveyorGeneral for Western Australia,  Mr J.  F. Morgan, also a Commissioner on the previous occasion; and, instead of the appointment of Alan Elliott Tonks and in the only change made on this occasion,  Mr F.  W. Statham, Regional Director ofthe Department of Housing and Construction in Western Australia. 
One would have thought that having recently had the experience of the Withers affair, the Government would have taken notice of what had happened on that occasion and taken steps to ensure that, firstly, there was not a repetition of the Withers affair in the Western Australia redistribution and, secondly, that justice not only would be done but also would appear to be done. We must surely appreciate that in any redistribution there would in some circumstances be a majority and a minority view. It is therefore conceivable that we could have a two-to-one vote or in some instances, if not in all circumstances, a three-to-nil vote. Having expressed our displeasure with and our complete rejection of the redistribution that took place on the previous occasion, one would have thought that on this occasion the Government would have at least taken extraordinary steps to appoint Commissioners who could have established their impartiality beyond any shadow of doubt. The Government should have obtained a response from the Opposition on the principle that the redistribution by the Commissioners would be beyond any reasonable doubt a fair redistribution. Some people may take the view that  Mr Tonks'  non-appointment and the appointment of  Mr Statham  will change that situation. If that is the case then we will have to look a bit futher to see whether the new appointment will bring a more balanced approach to this redistribution. If the complete integrity of this operation is not established to the satisfaction of the Opposition, one is entitled to draw the conclusion that the Government has not learned any lessons from the purge that took place a little less than a year ago with respect to  Senator Withers,  the then Minister for Administrative Services, who was not only responsible for electoral matters but also Leader of the Government in this place. One would have thought that the Government, and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  would have taken special steps- even extraordinary steps- to establish beyond any shadow of doubt the principle that on this occasion the redistribution would be handled in such a way as to inspire the confidence of the Opposition from the time the first appointments were made. 
Let me deal with the appointment of  Mr Statham.  I know of nothing detrimental about him and I make no criticism of his appointment, but the Minister for Administrative Services has not seen fit to advise the Parliament, the Senate or the community of the reasons why a senior officer of the Department of Housing and Construction, who previously worked with  Mr McLeay  when he was the Minister for Housing and Construction, has been selected for the position of distribution commissioner. No information has been given to us to establish that he holds any qualifications that would render him fit for the position. We have not been given information that would inspire in us a feeling that this man would act any differently from  Mr Tonks,  who previously occupied the third position. Because I believe that obviously one person cannot make the decisions, I make no comment about  Mr Statham.  However, on the basis of the evidence one is entitled to say that the previous distribution in Western Australia was rigged, that it was unsatisfactory, and that it was not accepted by the Opposition which expressed its attitude in no uncertain terms when the matter was being hurried through the Parliament in 1 977. Despite the vote that our Party received in Western Australia, the incredible result was that we were represented subsequently by only one seat. 
I remind the Senate that the challenge in the Withers affair was not made by the Opposition, it was made by a member of the Government parties. When one examines the record many months after the event, one can see the way in which the Government handled the Withers affair. It is clear that on 17 January 1978 the Government first took steps to establish an inquiry into allegations that had been made by a member of the Government parties.  Senator Withers  indicated to the Prime Minister and to the Cabinet that he had intervened in order to suggest certain name changes with respect to an electorate in Queensland. We also know that in the letter  Mr Pearson  sent to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  he referred to the fact that he had specifically pointed out to  Senator Withers  that section 22 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act states that no one shall seek to influence a commissioner in the performance of his duties under the Act. On the basis of that influence, the Royal Commission was prompted to say that it found that  Senator Withers  had used his position to further a political purpose.  Mr Justice  McGregor states in his report that  Senator Withers  influenced the distribution commissioners in last year's redistribution in Queensland to have the proposed name 'Gold Coast' changed back to Mcpherson. The Royal Commission found that what  Senator Withers  did, and the purpose for which he did it, constituted impropriety. 
That judgment was challenged subsequently in an article in the  Australian Law Journal  in which it was argued that the impropriety that had been suggested was not sufficient to warrant the sort of action that was taken on that occasion. I do not want to enter into that aspect of the debate other than to say that the telephonic discussion with one of the commissioners was responsible for the dilemma in which the Government placed itself with respect to the Withers affair. In those circumstances, one would have thought that on this occasion the Government would have taken extraordinary steps to do a number of things in respect to the appointment of distribution commissioners in Western Australia, where there was such a violent reaction from my party to the redistribution in 1 977. It seems to me reasonable to suggest that to start with, the Government could have consulted the Opposition about the appointments. If it felt it could not do that, at least it could have justified in the minds of members of the Opposition and in the minds of the public generally the reasons why a person such as  Mr Statham  should have been appointed. It could have outlined the qualifications which justified his appointment to that position. 
I have made some comments about this in the public arena but there has been no response at all from the Minister. For example, one would have thought that, bearing in mind that I am the shadow Minister for Administrative Services in this place, the Minister's statement would have anticipated that the matter would be discussed and perhaps could have indicated the reasons that prompted the Government to appoint two of the previous three commissioners and subsequently  Mr Statham.  Was  Mr Statham  appointed because he was previously a senior public official who worked in the Department of Housing and Construction when the present Minister for Administrative Services was the Minister for Housing and Construction? Is that his qualification? We are not told, so we are entitled to draw conclusions, particularly when we look back at the evidence upon which the Government and the Prime Minister acted in order to dismiss from public office the person who was not only the Leader of the Government in the Senate but also the Minister for Administrative Services. In a calmer atmosphere, perhaps we can appreciate what the  Australian Law Journal  said about the sacking of the Minister. What  Senator Withers  did was certainly a matter of impropriety. It was certainly a matter of indiscretion. But whether it warranted the sort of action that was subsequently taken is another matter. 
The new Minister for Administrative Services has appointed his first commissioners for the purpose of a redistribution. However, we are given nothing more than two-thirds of a quarto sheet of paper in which no justification is given for the appointments. The Opposition is entitled to raise this matter tonight bearing in mind the very strong objections that were raised by it as a result of the last redistribution. I believe that the public is entitled to put its view and to make known its objections in respect of the statement that is before the Senate tonight. We all know of the undue haste associated with the previous redistribution. Despite  Mr Fraser's  frequent statements that he would not hold a general election, we all know that the whole purpose of the speed-up that took place in 1977 was to get the redistribution off the plate and to get the procedures formalised so that the Government could have a double dissolution and hold a general election. 
So I think we are entitled to say that not only has the Government got to see that justice is done but also that it appears to be done. Certainly, that has not happened in this case. We can only hope that the gerrymander- there is no other word to describe it- that took place in Western Australia will not happen on this occasion and that we do not see a repetition of the sort of gerrymander that has existed in Queensland under the influence of a conservative government over a number of years. That gerrymander is not repudiated by this Government. It seeks to defend and protect the way in which the Queensland Government operates, despite its clearly unrepresentative nature. In the last election in Queensland the Labor Party polled 42.83 per cent of the votes and got only 23 seats, which in actual terms represents only 28 per cent ofthe votes. The Opposition received 15 per cent more votes than the National Party but 12 fewer seats because of the electoral distribution in that State. 
If we are to have confidence in electoral matters and procedures and if we believe that nobody should have a vote which is worth more than that of another person and that the Opposition wants to have confidence and faith in the redistribution which is to take place, we are entitled to say to the Government that the manner in which  Mr McLeay  has handled these appointments leaves much to be desired. It does not inspire our confidence. We regard with some scepticism the redistribution that is to take place. We will be looking very closely at the way in which the Commissioners carry out their responsibilities and we will have to be convinced that the Commissioners will be approaching their responsibilities in Western Australia in a way which will inspire the confidence of the community and of the Australian Labor Party. If that is not the case, a lot more will be said about the matter in the Parliament and in the public arena generally, because we are not prepared to have in that State a repetition of a redistribution which so clearly favours one political point of view at the expense of another. 
We would urge any future government to give serious consideration to consulting the Opposition when such appointments are made. When it has the opportunity to appoint men from judicial positions and when it can appoint people who can be regarded as being impartial and not lacking in political judgment, it should do so. It should take the steps that will avoid the conclusion to which we have come on this occasion, that the Government has not made the sort of appointments which satisfy the members of the Labor Party that we are going to get a fair redistribution in Western Australia. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 percent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 1 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. On 20 February this year, I asked the Minister whether the Government had a policy of favouring Australian companies in the purchase of government supplies and referred to the printing of Senate diaries in Hong Kong. Is the Minister's failure to answer an indication that the Government's policy has been ignored? It is true that the policy has again been abandoned in the case of Dalma Manufacturing Co. in its tender to the Department of Administrative Services to supply stamp pads and ink? Was this contract awarded to suppliers which import their goods, particularly from Taiwan? Was it awarded despite the fact that the Stores Supply and Tender Board indicated that the Dalma tender was competitive? Is the Minister aware that this decision will force Dalma to lay off workers in New South Wales? Finally, how serious is the Government's resolve to buy Australian goods and to lessen unemployment? 
I want to raise one or two minor questions relating to the amendment, which I support, moved by  Senator Evans.  I think particularly the Senate ought to have regard for the more sophisticated methods of intelligence which have grown up since the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was established almost 30 years ago. If we look at what we have done in respect of clause 2 1 , we have in fact opened the door very widely to the introduction of the most sophisticated methods of listening devices, the means by which quite legitimate conversations can be the subject upon which a security body may, in pursuance of its normal operations, that is, putting legitimate political activity under surveillance and reporting upon it, utilise the sort of devices that are now available. I am sure the Parliament does not appreciate the extent of developments and sophistication that now exists in this area. I would be concerned, for example, if the reports that I have heard are true, that it is possible to record a conversation several hundred yards away. It may be an ordinary conversation or it may involve a political discussion which has absolutely no relationship to the security ofthe country. 
Whilst it will be argued by the Government that with the sort of authority that is to be given to the Minister that sort of device may not be used, what the Government and ASIO require is a franchise that does not necessarily take in that new sophistication to which I have referred. I am not so sure about the way in which the Organisation has operated in the past. But the Parliament and the community at large are not entitled to say to the Minister that he shall accept the responsibility and not delegate it to somebody else. Of course, that is what clause 23 seeks to do, that is, to have authority delegated to the DirectorGeneral. As we have said in previous debates, Directors-General come and go. They are not directly accountable to the Parliament, whereas Ministers are. But I think there is a fair case to be made in favour of the Minister being the person who should have the authority, because he is the person responsible to the Parliament. If we find that he is too busy pursuing all his other activities as is the chief law officer of the Commonwealth, perhaps we need a special Minister for the purpose of protecting the citizens of this country from the sort of sophisticated prying and surveillance that are now so much a part of the whole security scene. I do not think we are gilding the lily with the sorts of devices, appliances, premises, et cetera which are envisaged in this Bill. They have been abused by intelligence organisations in other parts ofthe world. 
I think that the American Senate has shown the way by placing considerable constraint upon the way in which not only the Central Intelligence Agency but also the Federal Bureau of Investigation operates in the internal and external security areas of that country. What worries many citizens in this country, particularly those concerned with civil liberties, is that we have not really learnt very much from those important Senate considerations of the way in which security organisations have, in fact, broken the law and placed in jeopardy the futures and careers of people legitimately involved in political activities. It is argued by people like  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Hamer  that if the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has a dossier on somebody it does not mean very much; it is not important. But I can imagine members of the conservative parties not being concerned about ASIO having a dossier on them. The security organisation does not look at those sorts of people. It concerns itself with those who are considered to be on the radical side of politics. As we well know, that can embrace people who are one degree left of centre to those on the far Left to whom my colleagues have referred from time to time. I have no doubt that dossiers on tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of people in this country are held, if not by ASIO, by some other organisation. ASIO says that it does not have dossiers on politicians or such classes of people. I believe that they exist. If they do not exist at one level they exist at another because we have a scattering of security organisations operating in Australia. In fact, this Government has been associated with a proliferation of them rather than a coming together of them, which has been suggested as one of the features of this piece of legislation. Of course, the States have their police special branches. Police commissioners in the States, including my own State, have very dogmatic views and try to set themselves up above the law. 
We do not have a great deal of confidence that if the Government passes authority on to the Director-General it will be a good thing from the point of view of legitimate political activity and the civil rights and liberties of people. I do not believe that the Government or the Minister can say that the exercise of authority is too much of a load to carry. I suppose that that is virtually what he implies when he wants to delegate authority to the Director-General. He does not want to accept the responsibility. We want the Government and the Attorney-General to accept the responsibility. I expect that the AttorneyGeneral probably would not transgress in this area. I think he would seek to be satisfied that all the other methods of investigation suggested in our amendment had been taken through the hoops before he applied the sorts of devices to which I am referring. 1 suggest that the Minister ought not to be too backward in accepting the sorts of responsibilities that his office demands. He may find that it is too onerous to handle the multiplicity of matters involved. I think my colleague,  Senator Evans,  in one of his contributions to the debate has referred to the number of warrants that are issued and the number of approvals that are made. They must make administration a difficult task. We must also consider the periods of time and whether warrants should lie on the table for three months, six months or even longer. 
These are matters which surely ought not be left in the province of a public servant, certainly not in the province of an intelligence organisation which, as disclosed in the report of  Mr Justice  Hope, admits grave dereliction of duty and grave breaches in carrying out its responsibilities. 
Of course, the legislation is designed to regularise the affairs of ASIO. Of course, it is a postoperative piece of legislation because, in fact, what was previously illegal this Bill seeks to make legal. That is not a very satisfactory state of affairs when those who have acted illegally have been told nothing about it, they have not been brought to book, they have not been disciplined, the community does not know which officers transgressed and the Parliament has not been told. If there is to be any confidence in the Organisation it certainly will not come from this side of the chamber or from those sections of the Australian community concerned with civil liberties. I hope that they constitute a growing band of people. There is some evidence that even many lawyers who hitherto have kept themselves free from concern about civil liberties are showing a greater interest in the protection of civil liberties. In fact, the establishment by State parliaments of privacy committees and greater activity by Attorneys-General collectively and in their individual State capacities indicate that we are moving into an area of computers and surveillance by devices which imperil the whole fabric of our democratic way of life. 1 cannot understand, except for the weight of the applications, why the Government should take the view that it should delegate authority to the Director-General. If it is conceded that the Attorney-General is a very busy person- and we do not contest that view- he surely will not say in the next breath that the Director-General is not also a busy person. Does that mean that the Director-General, whose activities are not under the control of this Parliament or that the Australian community, can, because of the way in which he operates- I do not suppose many of us know the way in which he operates- delegate authority in the way that has created problems in the past? 
I urge the Minister to appreciate the concern that exists about this area and to give very serious consideration to the insertion of proposed clause 23A. The Opposition holds very strongly to the view that the Minister must be satisfied on reasonable grounds that all the other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient and that it would be impractical to obtain the information in the normal way. Although none of us can claim to be specialists in security and surveillance matters these days, I think there is enough evidence to show that the Bill gives a very wide jurisdiction. It is one area about which we would have grave misgivings unless the Minister were prepared to accept the responsibility. I imagine that it would be better to provide for the Minister to be able to say that he wants to depute somebody from his own staff to act in certain ways rather than to leave the provision as it is expressed in clause 23 and gives the DirectorGeneral full power and authority to act in the way suggested. After all, clause 23 refers not only to the Director-General but also to persons approved by him. The delegation is there. I hope that the Parliament, and particularly the Senate will agree that that delegation should be in the hands of the Minister. 
The reply of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to the consideration of this matter is a quite disturbing response to what I consider to be valid objections which the Opposition has put forward for his consideration. It is true that it has been a fairly lengthy and, in the Government's view, obviously tedious debate. But it has been a very desirable debate. One aspect about the debate that ought to be referred to is that every time the Committee has met to discuss important clauses of the legislation Government senators have been absent. One or two notable exceptions are  Senator Missen, Senator Puplick  and perhaps, occasionally, the 
Whip or the Deputy Whip. The feature of the debate has been the complete failure of Government Ministers to participate in the debate. 
Even the two mock heroes are missing, although I must admit that  Senator Missen  is absent because of illness. That has been a feature of the debate. We are involved in an exercise in which the tyranny of the majority will be imposed regardless of the arguments that the Opposition puts up, regardless of the public comment in the newspapers and in other areas of concern within the Australian community. Even though other areas of this legislation do in fact tie the Minister very intimately into the process of the issue of warrants, when it comes to this very clause of the legislation which widens the power to issue warrants the Minister stands pat. He is not prepared in any way, shape or form to be flexible or to reach a compromise despite the other clauses of the legislation which place him in a position in which he occupies a supervisory role. Why is this? Why is it that on this question, in respect of which there have been flagrant breaches in the past, the Minister is refusing to give any serious consideration to our point of view? After all, what we are saying is that a warrant may be issued when other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient. It is only in areas of extraordinary development in a situation that may be related to security that the Minister would, in accordance with the Opposition's proposed new clause 23a, have some supervisory role to exercise on behalf of the Director-General. The Minister in fact will be acting as a custodian of human rights and civil liberties. He will be protecting the community and he will be protecting the individual by being satisfied beyond all reasonable doubt that all other steps have been taken to collect this sort of information, before he authorises the use of a listening device or takes these extraordinary steps that are provided for in clause 24. All the established procedures upon which our country's rights have been enshrined- I refer to existing rights to enter premises, to search them, to inspect them, to remove documents, to break and enter, virtuallyare going to be - 
Legal burglary. That is a good description. Such breaches have occurred in the past. Yet the legislation says that in the performance of his functions the DirectorGeneral is subject to the general directions of the 
Minister. It is true there are qualifications; the Minister cannot override the opinion of the Director-General. That is a pretty wide jurisdiction that the legislation gives to the DirectorGeneral. Under clause 24, the Minister has a certain obligation and right to act to exercise discretion. The Opposition's proposed new clause 23A provides that the Minister has to be satisfied that all other lawful methods of investigation have proved insufficient and that there is no other course of action available to the Director-General, and at that point the Minister shall be the one to be consulted. The Minister does not agree with our amendment. In defending that point of view, he has the audacity to attack the integrity of Opposition speakers and to suggest that we are not concerned about the rights of individuals or communities or the security of the country despite the fact that we have gone to extraordinary steps in trying to play a positive role in this discussion. I would say that our record in this matter is considerably better than that of Government senators. One would have thought that those who claim to represent the Liberal point of view in its real sense in our community would share the Opposition's concern, that the Attorney-General would share our concern and would not want to be in the position of passing the buck to the Director-General or being just a rubber stamp. We are aware that this has happened in the past. 
We know there have been flagrant breaches in the way in which ASIO has operated and that the biggest part of its endeavours have been against one section of the Australian community. A colonel from Vietnam has been granted asylum in Australia and is involved in terror tactics against legitimate activities in raising funds in Sydney to assist the people of Vietnam. 1 wonder whether the Director-General has been watching the activities of that particular gentleman, or are we still concerned with what Bobby Gould is doing or what the Socialist Left Alliance or some other organisation is doing? I ask this question because of the way in which ASIO has operated in the past. The Opposition knows these things. We remember how certain people in ASIO sought to sell or give information for the purpose of publication through the agency of the former Leader of the Liberal Party in New South Wales,  Mr Coleman.  We recognise that the Government is seeking to close off that escape hatch, that leakage of information, but the fact is that it has happened in the past. We make no bones of the fact that we are very suspicious about many aspects of this Bill which does not place ASIO in a position of public accountability to this Parliament. 
Rather than the Attorney-General making critical comments about the motivation of the Opposition and about the contribution of the Australian Democrats to this debate, I believe he should have looked more closely at what we are trying to do and should accept this responsibility. I The does not accept it then let him make way for somebody else, because in the pursuance of clauses 23, 24 and 25, the Government is breaking a considerable amount of new ground in the whole area of democratic rights in this country. If this Bill is passed in this place and in the House of Representatives it will establish for all time the right of a security organisation and its officers to break and enter premises and to take documents- as  Senator Cavanagh  said- without even a mere request. This can be done simply because the Director-General or one of his officers believes that someone may be involved in domestic subversion. People in the past have put a very wide definition on domestic subversion. I believe there would be people in Queensland who would regard the activities of  Senator Bonner  if he opposed certain pieces of legislation in his own State-- 
Yes, they would. There are people in the community and in the security organisation who would say that  Senator Bonner,  when engaging in what I would call legitimate political activity, was engaged in domestic subversion in opposing Government legislation, maybe even his own government's legislations. The Opposition wants to establish safeguards beyond all reasonable doubt in respect of domestic surveillance, and yet the Attorney-General has the temerity to suggest that we are, in his words, wasting time, that we are not involved in a conscious effort to establish every possible safeguard. One of the ways to establish the safeguards is for the Minister to accept clause 23a. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 24 agreed to. 
Clause 25 (Use of listening devices). 
I want to speak briefly about the comments made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  We are concerned because the Committee, at the behest of the Attorney-General, has refused to consider some of the more reasonable amendments that were dealt with in clause 5 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. Clause 25 (3) (a) states:  that person is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected by the Director-General of being engaged in, or of being likely to engage in, activities prejudicial to security: 
That brings us back to the definitions in Part I of the Bill. The definitions of security are set out in the early part of this Bill and, of course, we would not object to activities being monitored and the application of devices in connection with terrorism, sabotage or the other matters. Subversion has been dealt with in clause 5 ( 1 ) (a), (b) and (c). This is an area in which there is a wide divergence of opinion. The Opposition is entitled to say that the Government's approach to the definition of subversion differs markedly from that of the Opposition, and the views that have been expressed in many sections of the media and by many civil liberties organisations. In fact, we have been categorised by sections of the media as being somewhat inadequate in fulfilling our responsibilities in matters covered in this Bill. It has been suggested that the Australian Labor Party has not been doing its homework. That is not borne out by any objective analysis ofthe debate on this Bill and the amendments that we have sought to put before the Committee. Every time we try to do that, the one or two senators on the Government side of the chamber who are interested in this debate suggest that we are hypocrites. I think that  Senator Puplick  used the word 'hypocritical'. The Attorney-General suggested that we are playing some sort of a double game. In fact, the amendments that we seek to move are designed overall to protect the rights of the individual. 
On that issue, the Labor Party surrenders its position to no other party in this country. It is concerned about the rights of the individual. That has been part of our franchise since we were formed as an industrial movement more than a century ago and as a political movement in 1 890. We have been concerned with the rights of the individual and have been in the forefront of issues concerning the right to vote, freedom of expression and the right of assembly. The Australian Labor Party Government which held office between 1972 and 1975 was concerned about a Bill of rights. It ill-behoves  Senator Puplick  to suggest that we should have done something about these amendments to the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act when, in fact, we were obstructed every single day of those three years by a hostile Senate which was using every device and every devious means at its disposal to undermine the Government. This Government has had three years in which to introduce its Bill of rights. It has failed to do so. We are concerned about the matters to which  Senator Cavanagh  quite correctly referred when we were dealing with, I think, clause 24 of the Bill. He drew the Committee's attention to the kinds of incidents which affect the rights of people. It may well be that a person in acting in a way which this Government defines as coming within the definitions of subversion. But it may well be that a dozen other people in an area are not involved in any unlawful activities, even using the definitions to be applied by this Government. Their conversations, activities and opinions can also be noted. 
We have no idea where a listening device will be placed. It could be placed in the bedroom or loungeroom of a home and the domestic outpourings of a family unit would become the subject of some scrutiny by the Director-General and/or his agents. The collection of information about an individual can embrace a wide number of people. Because we are concerned with that expansion, the Opposition seeks to have the period limited to 90 days. Our motivation was immediately questioned by the Minister. He thinks that we are playing some sort of game that is undermining the framework and structure of the Bill. 
We certainly would not wish to see the sort of situation develop to which  Senator Cavanagh  referred, that is, a listening device being placed at the two pubs near the Trades Hall in Sydney to record the internal conversations of members of an executive of a particular union in order to get at one union official who it is felt should come under the net because he is involved in subversion. We concede that the argument that the net should be thrown wide enough to consider the activities of that particular person is plausible. We think that the use of such devices should be curtailed so that the rights of all people, whether they are part of an organisation or family or are present at a meeting place, are protected. A listening device may be placed in a public hall in which people may talk about the right to life, against abortion, about aid to Vietnam, about peace and war issues or about aid for education. People may talk about a whole variety of public issues. Because we believe that one person frequents a place of assembly should we be entitled to collect information on all the people involved? 
Quite frankly, I do not think that the amendment goes far enough. I object to the Minister's questioning our concern about the net that is thrown around in some circumstances. We want to restrict the period to 90 days in order to protect half the people who might be involved when a device is used or a telephonic communication is intercepted by officers acting at the behest of the Director-General. The Minister asked what was the difference between a six month period and a 90 day period. The fact is that the Minister will take the view that he has to be convinced on the second occasion that the inquiry is warranted, that the use of the device is warranted and that the period of application of the device ought to be doubled from 90 days to six months. After all, if the warrant is issued for a further six months, it almost becomes an accepted practice and a means by which information is collected. It seems to me that it is worth looking at the 90 day period to see whether it is too long. The Opposition has settled for the 90 day period. It gives just a little more accountability to those who make application for the use of such devices. Again, it comes back to the Minister. If he is carrying out his responsibilities correctly, he will want to know what information has been collected in the first instance and whether it has warranted intrusion into the private affairs of people and borne fruit. Therefore, there is another check upon the activities of the Organisation itself. 
We make no apologies. The amendment is not frivolous. It recognises that this Government is hell bent on passing the legislation, that it has a perverted sense of what subversion means and that the party which forms the government has been associated with anti-democratic practices for a considerable number of years. It is in recognition of those sorts of circumstances that we believe that some curtailment should be placed upon the devices that are used and that the Minister should play a greater role in supervising the use of the devices when an application is made to him by the Director-General or an officer appointed by him. After all, clause 25 deals with a whole number of 'ifs' and 'buts', a whole number of qualifications and a whole number of activities which were not contained in the previous legislation. In those circumstances, the Minister ought to accept the bona fides of the Opposition 's amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 26 and 27- by leave-taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 28. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; that the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; that the compulsory tactics being used to force the change arc a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilise whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire: that weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; that the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; that the Australian Government request the State governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory and follows an answer which was given to  Senator Knight  with respect to the problems in Canberra. I refer to the recent Canberra surveys which show that there is a serious slump in retailing in the national capital. Is theMinister aware that the Bureau of Statistics figures show that there are 1,927 retail and service outlets in Canberra- a figure which represents a ratio of such outlets to citizens of one to 90? Is the Minister aware that small shopkeepers in the new complex at Belconnen have suggested  almost unanimously that they will not renew their leases because of the current retail slackness? Will the Government therefore give consideration to asking the National Capital Development Commission to discourage any further shopping development- development which can only worsen the grave economic difficulties facing most small shopkeepers in Canberra? 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 be withdrawn and re-drafted to remove all reference to taxation on mineral royalties for Aboriginal organisations'. 
On behalf of  Senator Keeffe  I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled. 
This petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Australia's Aboriginal and Islander peoples have not been compensated for the loss of their traditional land, social and cultural independence and self-respect. 
Australia lags behind other nations with white majorities in providing a Treaty of Commitment to its indigenous peoples giving them:  a defined proportion of national income for a defined period  freehold title to traditional land, waterways and seaboards 
* control over related resources and over the introduction of alcohol and other alien cultural influences in 'heir regions. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take urgent steps to concur with the wishes of a majority of the electors at every polling place in Australia at the 1 967 referendum by resumption from the States of the major traditional Aboriginal land areas and reserves and former reserves as at 3 1 .3.78, to become federal Crown land pending prompt determination of freehold title for Land Trusts and eventually for defined community co-operatives. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change are a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 193 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral recently agreed to the extradition to Australia from the United States of a former Philippines charge d'affaires in Australia,  Mr Joselito  Azurin, following a complaint by the Philippines Government alleging the embezzlement of Philippines Government funds? Is he aware of suggestions that this complaint is a politically motivated attempt to have  Mr Azurin  eventually forcibly returned to the Philippines because of his active public opposition to the Marcos regime since his arrival in the United States last August? Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the apparent inconsistency on the part of the Philippines Government in waiving immunity in this case after having refused to do so in the case of serious allegations of defrauding the Australian Customs by purchasing large quantities of spirits for resale to a Canberra motel which were made against two other Philippines diplomats? 
-by leave- The Opposition wants to be associated with the discussion- I would not call it a debate- on the Parliamentary Library and the resources that have become available, together with the problems that are associated with those resources, particularly taking into account the matters that you have raised,  Sir, and  the contribution by  Senator Davidson.  I do not want to make a lengthy comment. However, all of us recognise the tremendous assistance that is available to us through the Parliamentary Library and the need to extend its resources. But I hope that we do not have to wait until the building of the new parliament house before those resources become more readily available to members of Parliament. 
We live in a period of great specialisation, when problems are becoming much more incomprehensible. It is more complex and difficult for members of parliament to appreciate the changes, the influences and the differences that occur within countries and regions of the world. So the need for an up-to-date resource centre becomes ever more important than in the past, particularly as we are moving into the electronics era and the computer age. I hope that these matters are receiving consideration by the Library so that the sort of resources that are obviously available in many other countries and to the private sector will become available to the public sector resource centre available to members of Parliament. I request the Government to agree to discuss this matter, perhaps in the first week of the Budget session when business is not particularly pressing. In the meantime we will have time to read the report and thus be more able to present a more cogent viewpoint about what ought to be the perspectives in relation to the Library and the resources available to us generally. We could then offer constructive contributions. 
We do not find ourselves in much conflict with the proposals because governments come and go. Such is the political pendulum. Resources available to governments today need to be seen as resources available when in opposition. That is one of the lessons that we learnt from being in government for three years. We invite the Government to assist in some ventilation of the issues which have been raised in your report,  Mr President,  and in the contribution of  Senator Davidson.  We request the Government to provide some opportunity to discuss the matter in greater detail in the next session. 
When the House rose last evening 1 was making the point to the Senate that 1 believe that this legislation is discriminatory insofar as it places a tax on Aborigines, and as such is at variance with the way in which taxes are levied on other groups in the Australian community. In recent years we have learnt the degree to which Aborigines regard land as their home. Their struggle for land rights and access to land is based on land being paramount to their culture and to their way of life. The Government has ignored that principle in its present proposals to impose tax on the compensation paid to Aboriginals as a result of mining activities being undertaken on Aboriginal land. In European civilisation our homes are sacrosanct. They form part of our assets. If they are sold in that capacity they do not attract tax liability. No capital gains tax or other form of taxation is imposed when a home is disposed of, except if it is done on such a basis that it is the principal form of income. 1 do not think that anyone- not even members of this Government- would suggest that Aborigines are in the business of selling their land- their home. Of course they are not. One can certainly draw the conclusion- as indeed the Opposition does- that to impose such a tax on Aborigines is blantantly discriminatory and racist. People in white civilisation suffer no penalty as a result of the sale of their homes. However, this legislation seeks to apply a form of taxation whose rates are higher in net terms then those paid on royalties by the mining companies. One is entitled to say that the Bill is not only discriminatory but also racist in its application to Aborigines. From the point of view of morality it is also unfair to impose a tax on people who, for the first time in their history and their culture, are receiving income as a result of the possession of some asset. 
The rate of taxation to be applied to the compensation paid is 6.4 per cent. When we look at the way in which the Government approaches its responsibilities in regard to tax gathering in this country, one can see that in the area of public morality, this Government is recreant It is open to a great deal of criticism and suspicion because it is setting out to collect sums of money from Aborigines who are in receipt of royalties arising out of arrangements which have been entered into over the last several years. The Ranger and Nabarlek agreements were negotiated in good faith. At the time those agreements were made there was no suggestion that the royalties to be paid to Aborigines would be taxed. These negotiations have a long history. While they were being worked out many views were expressed in the community by the Aborigines. It was not until after the arrangements had been entered into on 20 July last year that the Government made public its intentions to tax the royalties paid to Aborigines. There were no details or suggestions as to the form that that taxation would take. 
I remind those members of the Government who have been so outspoken from time to time about retrospectivity as it applies to the white civilisation and Australian companies, of -the great song and dance they made about the endeavours of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to close tax loopholes which had been blatantly entered into by one of the most devious groups in our community. The accountants and the lawyers spend their lifetime in advising the wealthy people in the community on how to avoid their tax liabilities. Honourable senators will remember the great song and dance that came from government members. They criticised the Government and threatened to cross the floor if that retrospectivity provision was applied. In this case it is being applied. Yet there has not been one word of protest by those people who are constantly talking of their concern for the rights of Aborigines. 
We all know that Aborigines are at the bottom end of the income scale. In order to reap in additional revenue the Government has taken the extraordinary steps of applying against our indigenous people legislation of a retrospective nature and a rate of taxation which is higher than that applied to the mining companies. The Government is properly open to condemnation and to public criticism from every point of view. The Treasurer is on record as saying that he is concerned about the fact that $3,000m a year is lost in tax revenue as as result of tax avoidance schemes. That figure was the Treasurer's own estimation. Honourable senators will recall that from time to time this Parliament has been asked to pass legislation to close these loopholes. In this regard, the Government has had the support of the Opposition. When we look at the people who avail themselves of those opportunities we see that they suffer little in the way of penalty as they employ lawyers and accountants in order to avoid their taxation liabilities. The people who ought to be protected are the very people that this legislation seeks to affect. 
We do not have to look very far to appreciate the one-sided approach that this Government has taken in respect of taxation, particularly in relation to those in the corporate and mining sectors of our economy. Let me just refer the Senate to what has happened in the mining sector in order to show the way in which this Government establishes tax penalties on those least able to pay and assisting those who can afford to pay. It is a case of taxing the poor and letting the wealthy off the hook. 
Let us look at the Western Mining Corporation. Its profit in the first half of 1978-79 was $8m, including a tax credit of $ 1.7m. It paid no tax the year before. It paid only $8m tax out of a profit of $24m the year before that. In the first half of 1978-79 the Australian Government paid an investment allowance of $3. lm to that company. The company expects to get a similar or higher amount in the second half of this year. North Broken Hill had a $15m profit in the March quarter of 1978-79. Mount Isa Mines had a $59m profit. The rate of increase was 33 per cent. The Utah organisation had a profit of $!38m in 1977-78. CRA had a profit of $23m in the last half of 1977. Included in that was a depreciation allowance of $58m. Is it any wonder that the Federal Treasury advised the Government that it ought to go for a 10 per cent royalty on uranium from Nabarlek, the Queensland Mines Limited project? The Treasury argued that this was an opportunity to relate royalties to profits to impose a tax on super profits. Cabinet, however, under pressure from the mining companies on the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  rejected that advice from the Treasury. 
I was interested to hear today a question asked by  Senator Young  about the windfall profits of Esso-BHP which over a three-year period, from 1978-79 to 1981, will exceed $ 1,250m. Here is a chance for the Government to take action, if it is really concerned about taxation, as you well know,  Mr Deputy  President-you raised the question yourself- this was a chance for the Government to pick up a very important resources tax. What has the Government done? lt has done absolutely nothing. It has given in to one of the wealthiest groups of companies in Australia in respect of not only normal rates of profit but windfall profits. We do not have to look further than the Fitzgerald report entitled Contribution of the Mineral Industry to Australian Welfare', which was commissioned during the Labor Government, to realise who is profiting from the mineral and mining development in this country. 
Can the honourable senator justify the Government's action in subsidising mining during a period of great mining profitability? The Government was a loser in terms of revenue. Is the honourable senator prepared to justify that action while, at the same time, the Government is prepared to tax Aboriginal communities as suggested in this legislation? If so, he has a very bad sense of values. This Government is guilty of imposing discriminatory legislation. It is taxing the very poor and letting the very rich, most of whom profit from its policies, send their capital out of the country. 
In the period in which the Fitzgerald report was compiled, from 1968-69 to 1972-73, the proportion of all income tax payable by the mining companies fell from 2.4 per cent to 2 per cent. Yet the Government is proposing in this legislation to tax Aboriginal communities 6.4 per cent. In that year, as  Mr Fitzgerald  pointed out, mining companies accounted for one-sixth of all the trading company pre-tax profits, but paid only one-fiftieth of currently payable income tax. There is a case for super profit taxes. There is a case for resource taxes. There is a case for windfall profits to be taxed. There is a case for closing up the loopholes used by the wealthy who employ accountants and lawyers. Every year $3,000m in tax is lost from federal revenue. The Government does precious little to gather tax in areas where it ought to be gathered, yet it has the effrontery and the gall to expect the Parliament to pass legislation such as this. The tax harvest will be small compared with the massive sums that could be had from these mining operations. 
Just look at what the Aborigines will get. The Northern Land Council will get $200,000 a year during the currency of the Ranger Agreement, $300,000 a year during the construction phase and $150,000 a year during construction. In the case of Nabarlek the payments for the first four years will be $800,000, $800,000, $900,000 and $500,000 respectively. The Government defends its decision to tax that sort of money yet suggests that there ought not to be any attempt to close off all the loopholes available to the mining companies who, substantially, are foreign owned and contribute precious little to the national wealth of this country. 
I say again what I said last night: The reactionary attitude of this Government has been clearly expressed- by its actions, lt has said to the Aborigines: 'There is mineral wealth on your land and no matter what you say it is going to be developed. Of course, we recognise that you have some claim in respect to it. We will pay you compensation but we will tax that compensation in a different fashion from the way we tax compensation for European communities'. In this respect, I will quote from Stephen Zorn's 'Negotiators Report to the National Land Council on the Ranger and Nabarlek Mining Agreements', lt states: 
The Ranger agreement . . . is in my judgment, the best that can be achieved by negotiations at present, bearing in mind the very strong threats and pressures from the Government. Thus, having forced the Aboriginal people to take a lower than just amount in compensation-! will he interested to see whether Government members can defend what was agreed to in those negotiations- having threatened to use arbitrators and to take away what little they had, the Government now turns around and taxes that pathetic amount. If you look at the ratio of profitability for those who own the land and those who will profit from the exploitation, it is something in excess of 60 to one in favour of the vast mining corporations, most of which are overseas owned. 
Having made sure that the pockets of the mining companies would be lined at the expense of the Aboriginal people, this Government has proceeded along a path certain to destroy Aboriginal culture. Nothing in this Bill- I hope it is somewhere in the mind of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)-  protects the culture of the Aboriginal people. Whilst I am making a comparison between what is to be paid to the Aboriginals and what will be the profit of the mining companies, I think we have some responsibility not to ignore the recommendations of Shann Turnbull in his 'Report on the Impact of Mining Royalties on Aboriginal Communities in the Northern Territory'. He warned against dumping this money on the owners without preparation. In a debate of this nature it is worth mentioning what will be the inevitable result, unless there is very careful planning and very careful application of sound principles, for the Aboriginal communities which will receive the amounts of money that have been agreed to. The Shann Turnbull report states that revenues would jeopardise traditional life. But long term revenues, properly applied, would assure selfsufficiency and self-determination. I am sure that we want to see those objectives and strategies fulfilled. Revenues should shield Aboriginal cultures from white society intrusions. Shann Turnbull has pointed out in his report that the Northern Territory as a whole- not just Aborigines- can benefit from the royalties and developments. 
Other implications need to be considered. There is a need for an urgent education program to be undertaken to explain the likely implications and the conclusions reached in the report including a phasing out of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. That is a very sweeping statement to be made by the person commissioned to make this report, lt is also recommended that financial accountability to Federal organisations be replaced by social accountability to Aboriginal organisations. As Shann Turnbull has pointed out, so far there is no evidence that the Department is doing this. The issue of more money is by no means my concern or the Opposition 's concern. Our main concern is the damage being done to Aboriginal culture by the operations of mining in those areas and the fact that the Aborigines are being denied a chance to prepare for the impact of the money. This action by the Government is another in the long line of attempts to use the poor and the weak as land fill for its Budget deficit. As 1 have indicated, why back away? Why reject the advice of Treasury? Why reject the feasibility of making the sort of tax inroads into profitability which would enable governments to carry out their responsibilities, lt is interesting to note that most of the calls that are coming to this Government to cut back on public sector spending and social welfare programs and to reduce other welfare payments are coming from the very groups of people to which I am referring in the mining companies. I am referring to the Rod Carnegie's, the  Sir James  Foot's and all the gentlemen to whom this Government has given knighthoods and recognition. They are the people who are exerting the pressure on this Government. Unfortunately their comments are being echoed in some sections- only some sections- of the Australian media that there ought to be even more and greater cut backs in public sector spending- cut pensions, the unemployment benefit and take away the payment of the unemployment benefit to those people aged under 25 years of age. This has been suggested by the honourable member for Canberra,  Mr Haslem.  He will be the late member for Canberra when that percolates down to the consciousness of the Canberra community which has one of the highest rates of unemployment in this country. These people are suggesting that our medical and welfare commitments should be cut so that these mining companies can get even greater access to profitability in order to exploit further the resources of this country. There is no legislation that takes those things into account. There is no legislation that imposes resource taxes and wealth taxes on those who can afford such taxes. Rather, we see this miserly attempt by this Government to introduce a tax on those people who entered into agreement with this Government without the knowledge that there was going to be a form of taxation imposed upon them subsequent to the agreement being made. To that extent this Government stands condemned for all time for introducing this type of legislation in such a way as to destroy any public confidence by those who are involved in the negotiations regarding Ranger and Nabarlek. If the Government had said that it would pay the Aborigines 20 per cent of royalties and tax those royalties, the Aborigines, through their land councils, would have known about that. They were not told about that fact until after the signing of the agreement. We all know the pressures that were exerted on the Northern Land Council to get those agreements signed. We make no apology for moving the amendment that seeks to have the Bill withdrawn and redrafted in such a way as to take out of the legislation those taxation provisions that are german to it and which would impose a form of taxation upon the royalties paid to the Aborigines in territories under the control of the national Parliament. 
On behalf of  Senator Keeffe,  I present the following petition from 19 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that the construction of a uranium enrichment plant in North Queensland and the mining of uranium in the Herveys Range area should not be proceeded with on the following grounds: 
1 ) No safe method has yet been devised for the disposal of nuclear waste. 
The mining of uranium ore exposes workers to considerable danger from radon gases. 
The danger of poisonous chemicals seeping into surface and underground water supplies as a result of uranium ore mining and refining of uranium ore could pose serious health hazards for persons living in the Townsville region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take all possible steps to abandon or postpone indefinitely the mining of uranium in the Herveys Range area, and the construction of an enrichment plant in the Townsville region. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the Minister concede that on most matters the Australian Government tends to follow the advisings of the American authorities? Is the Minister aware that the United States National Cancer Institute has warned that a chemical, selenium sulphide, contained in antidandruff shampoos may cause cancer, and that these products are on sale in Australia? Can the Minister say why the Australian Government has ignored the rulings given by the United States Government medical authorities on 2,4,5-T and now on selenium sulphide? 
I rise to support the general principles of the amendment that has been moved. During my contribution I may well move a further amendment. I do not know whether I will transgress the Standing Orders when I make reference to the dishonest way that this Government has operated and to the way in which it has attempted to confuse the Australian public about the role it plays in Australia. I wonder whether the sort of description used by  Senator Carrick  on a previous occasion about a dishonest and corrupt government does not fit adequately the way in which the Fraser Government has operated since it came to power in 1 975. 
During the whole of 1973, 1974 and 1975 in particular but also in more recent times, the principal spokesmen of this Government, in the rhetorical style in which they present their arguments have endeavoured- as was so correctly reported by  Senator Chipp  earlier today- to suggest that all of the ills, difficulties and deficiciencies that the Australian community has suffered can be traced back to December 1972. Of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself has tried to perpetuate that myth, that illusion, as have all of his puppets either in replying to questions in this place or in the course of their general public posturing throughout Australia. 
However, when the Prime Minister stands on the international stage, where his words have particular significance and he must speak the truth, which he does not do very often in Australia - 
The Fraser Government has attempted, through remarks of the Prime Minister and all of his spokesmen, with perhaps one or two exceptions, to create the impression that all of the ills that have beset this country may be associated with the three years of the Whitlam Government. However, when the Prime Minister is on the international stage he does not tell that sort of untruth. He knows that when he presents Australia's point of view in such a forum he must tell the truth. I wish to refer particularly to his statement at the meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Manila on 9 May, as published in the 
Department of Foreign Affairs document  Backgrounder  of 16 May. That statement expressed clearly what we were saying when we were in government, and what we said subsequently, and proves that this Government misled the Parliament and the Australian people in respect to the economic difficulties that have beset this country. The Prime Minister said:   . . This Conference meets at the end of what has been a troubled decade for the world economy, a decade characterised by high inflation, high unemployment, and, as a consequence, a dangerous drift to protectionism. A decade which has also seen a great deal of acrimony and friction between developing and developed countries, causing alarm in some and disillusionment and cynicism in others. 
We do not quarrel with that characterisation but it indicates that when the Prime Minister is out of Australia attending international forums he tells the truth about the state of the economy. When he is in Australia he attempts, as indeed do all Government Ministers, with one or two exceptions, to suggest that all of the problems that beset this country's economy arose solely from the change of government between 1972 and 1975. 
The Prime Minister referred to the past decade. As we well know, in 1969 an economic downturn was already evident throughout the Western world and in Australia. In that year there was a dramatic swing against the conservative Liberal-Country Party Government, as a result of which it almost lost office. We know that in 1971-72, because of the mismanagement by the McMahon Government, which could not handle the economic crisis of that period, the world economy was on the downturn and was having its effects upon Australia and the Australian people took advantage of the situation to change the Government. It is about time that the nonsense that has been peddled by this Government and its spokesmen, particularly the Prime Minister, came to an end and we got down to a serious debate about the problems that beset all of the industrialised Western countries and abandoned this type of nit-picking, partisan-type politics, in which we try to convince ourselves that the blame for the country's problems lies with one party or section of the Australian people, namely, those who produce the goods and services for the use of their countrymen. If we can only get down to that sort of debate, we might finally be able to make a contribution towards an understanding in the Australian community about where we are at.  (Quorum formed). 
Thank you,  Mr President,  for providing me with an audience. We ought to be trying to isolate and identify the problems that beset the 
Western industrialised countries. I refer to the sorts of problems with which governments, parliaments and communities ought to be concerning themselves and understanding. If in 1975 it was competent for  Senator Carrick  to describe the previous Government as a dishonest and corrupt one, it is surely competent for us to say that that sort of gimmickry can be applied to the present government. I refer especially to the comments that were made in this House only a few nights ago by the same  Senator Carrick  on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to indicate the way in which double talk and misleading, reactionary statements are made here- statements which have very little substance in terms of grappling with the sorts of problems with which we are concerned. 
The Treasurer, at the beginning of the speech which was presented here by  Senator Carrick,  said: 
This Government inherited a situation in which its predecessor had increased Commonwealth spending by a staggering and irresponsible figure of 1 1 5 per cent over the 3 years it held office. 
The fact is, of course, that the Australian Labor Party set about applying, in a very consistent fashion, the electoral mandate that it had been given in 1972. We make no apologies for that and we make no apologies for lifting public sector spending in the areas in which we did. I refer principally to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer, John Howard, of 1977-78. I refer honourable senators to the pages upon which so much criticism has been levelled by Government spokesmen about what the Labor Party did in terms of alleviating poverty, distress and hardship in the Australian community, and in regard to making up lost ground in terms of public sector expenditure during the 1 950s and 1 960s. For example, in the 1972-73 Budget- which was the last Liberal Budget before Labor came to power- $442m was spent on education. In the last Labor Budget of 1975-76 that figure had been lifted to $ 1,846m. 
In reply to questions from time to time to the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  honourable senators have heard that he would do all that he could to maintain that level of expenditure on education. What did we find that he was forced to do? He was forced to swallow his words when, in the document presented last Thursday night, the Treasurer indicated that the Government proposed to prune expenditure on education. If honourable senators look at the ratio of spending on education in those years, it was lifted from 4.3 per cent of Budget income to 8.4 per cent in 1975. This Government has maintained expenditure at somewhere close to 8.7 per cent. Yet, education is one area which is to be cut back. If honourable senators look at the expenditure on health, in the last Budget of 1972-73 the Liberal Government spent $783m, which was lifted to $2,953m by the Labor Government. What was wrong with that? What was wrong with spending that money on health and the care of the Australian people, on increasing medical services and benefits from $229m to $774m? What was wrong with increasing the expenditure on hospital services, on nursing home and domiciliary care service and benefits, on community health services and on health schemes for school children, and doubling the amount of money spent from $ 12m to $24m? 
So, we can go on and on in the areas in which the Labor Government lifted public sector spending to provide the Australian people with decent conditions and benefits. Similarly, it can be said that there were similar expenditure increases on social security and welfare, which increased from $922m to $2, 236m for assistance to the aged. Aged and invalid pensions went from approximately 22 per cent of average weekly earnings to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, which was the commitment upon which the Labor Government had been elected. Expenditure on total social security and welfare was lifted from $2, 100m to $5,077m. This involved assistance to one parent families, handicapped people and veterans and their dependants. Is it argued genuinely in this place that those were decisions that were wrongly taken, and that they were decisions that ought to have been changed? 
Of course, honourable senators would expect Government senators to say that the Labor Government ran out of money. That sort of comment is expected because this Government is more concerned with taking away benefits from people and giving benefits to the corporate sector and to those groups in the Australian community that do not need the benefits. The Opposition knows that the Government is under tremendous pressure. One of the reasons why the Senate today adopted the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Coleman-  a most unusual event- is that there is a struggle in the Government about maintaining the level of benefits to the Australian people. The Government wants to be able to say that the Senate has expressed an opinion. It cannot afford not to be associated with looking after the rights and needs of the needy people in the Australian community. The Opposition is thankful that Government senators took advantage of that situation to get a unanimous decision in the Australian Senate. The Government is under tremendous pressure to cut back deficits, money supply and welfare payments. 
Honourable senators need look only at the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Friday 25 May. It is reported that Australia's biggest industry body, the Confederation of Australian Industry, in its submission to this Government in respect of the Budget preparations that are taking place at the moment, has called upon the Federal Government to cut spending in social security, health and welfare payments. In order to do what? To pay incentives to industry- industry that according to the Government, has the responsibility of providing jobs. At what point does that incentive reach a maximum point so that industry accepts the responsibilities? If it is the responsibility of the private sector to provide expansion, development and job opportunities, at what point do we stop in terms of its accumulation of capital in order to provide jobs when, in fact, profits in Australia are reaching one of the highest levels in the last decade? 
At what point do those people who have the accumulation of capital under their control make it available from the point of view of expanding or developing industries and providing jobs? The fact is that in the last three years part of that accumulation of capital in this country- an amount in excess of $ 1 ,300m- has been exported by Australian manufacturers to the region covered by the Association of South East Asian Nations, to the Third World countries, for the purpose of developing manufacturing and other activities in those countries. In fact, that is exporting capital for jobs. In the same process, 130,000 jobs in this country have disappeared completely from the work place. Yet, one of the largest employer organisations in Australia, the Confederation of Australian Industry is suggesting that the Government should put the screw on the needy, the unhealthy and those who are out of work. Even the Government's spokesman,  Mr Lynch,  has talked about subjecting the unemployed to a more difficult work test. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  has suggested that all people under the age of 25 years should not receive unemployment benefit. 
Honourable senators well know that the establishment forces, and many members of this Government- although fortunately there are some whom I can exempt from this criticismlike to try to suggest that the reasons for people being out of work are personal; they are responsible for their inability to find jobs. As honourable senators well know, the number of vacancies that exists for employment is small in comparison to the number of people wanting jobs. The ratio is something like 24 to one; there are 24 people looking for each job. Even if all those jobs were filled, there would still be another 23 people looking for each job. It should not be suggested that those people be held responsible for that state of affairs when, on the other hand, the Government and its spokesmen have argued that the responsibility of governments is to provide incentives for the private sector to provide jobs. Yet the Government places no restraint upon what should be done with that capital in order to provide employment. 
Australian industry is sick, as indeed industry is sick in all of the other Western industrialised countries. This has been the case for more than a decade. In fact, statistics show that since 1967 there has been a fall in capital investment in the private sector in this country and there has been a declining investment capital in many other countries of the Western world. When the Government came into office in 1975, in its first Budget it said that its strategy was to bring about a consumer led recovery. The business sector set about the task of reviving consumer demand. Most of the decisions that have been made by this Government have been associated with an attempt to encourage consumers to buy but at the same time the Government set about reducing real wages and that prevents people from purchasing. 
If one looks at the amount which is now spent on advertising in this country, it will be seen that it has risen to the highest level in our history. We now spend more than $ 1,000m per annum in advertising- in trying to convince Australian people to purchase and to consume more goods. In the last year those people who manufacture and distribute goods in this country have increased expenditure on advertising by 29 per cent. That is a dramatic increase in advertising expenditure. There is almost no limit to the degree to which advertising funds are now being expended. In New South Wales, taxi cabs will now carry advertisements. Advertising has become a significant part of all spectator sports, particularly on television. The tremendous increase in expenditure on advertising is reflected in the sporting field. The consequence is that very little increase in consumer spending has occurred. 
The next Budget was to be an investment-led budget. The Government has given industry something in excess of $600m in investment allowances encouraging it to increase productivity and technology in order to raise the level of productivity. The investment-led strategy has failed as has consumer-led strategy. We are now confronted with this Government's current strategy- and that is an export-led strategy. This too will fail, as indeed have all of the other strategies that the Government has been trying to develop as an alternative to the economic problems that beset this country. All of the leaders of our private sector have been suggesting to this Government- and it does not matter whether it is Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited with  Sir Rod  Carnegie or all the other captains of industry- that it ought to cut back public sector spending and welfare payments, and to reduce taxation. When we talk about reduced taxation it is very interesting to note that some of the puppeteers who talk on these sorts of matters do not even look at their own government's documents. I refer to page 192 and 193 of the last Budget document, which reads: 
Income tax on individuals remains by far the most important single category of Budget receipts. Expressed as a proportion of total receipts, income tax collections from individuals has risen from 38.2 per cent of total receipts in 1968-69 to 5 1 .7 per cent in 1 977-78. 
There is a further rise in the surcharge that the Government applied in the early part of this year which was to have been removed on 1 July. It will now continue until November this year as a result of subsequent Bills which are to be brought into this Parliament. This is contrary to what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his documentwhich was read by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  in this chamber on Thursday night. In fact payasyouearn taxation is increasing and has not decreased under this Government. 
I indicate my support for a further amendment which I understand will be moved and which will refer to the evasion and deceit of this Government. I refer now to a few small factors which have arisen out of an examination conducted into the work of government departments. 
There are a number of incidents that can be referred to by other speakers but I want to refer to some of the matters that were brought out by the Estimates Committee of which I was a member. When the Government is finally persuaded that some compensation should be paid to outlying areas in respect of the tremendous increases in petrol prices which have taken place during this Government's term of office, if we look at the period when these petrol prices came into force and compare them with what they are today, there has been an increase of more than 1 00 per cent under the Fraser administration. The Government recognised this and set out to take it into consideration in last year's Budget to allow for compensation to be paid to those people in the outlying areas. A considerable sum of money was set aside for the purpose of providing a subsidised rate so that people in rural or remote areas would be able to escape some of the penalties of the higher prices of petroleum products. 
When the extra appropriation required for the Northern Territory was dealt with by the Estimates Committee, we were surprised to find that, although a sum in excess of $5m had been paid to five of the petrol companies in this country for the purpose of providing some relief for those people in remote areas, this Government, which claims to be competent, to be concerned about public sector spending and to represent all of the people of Australia, had failed to provide any check on whether those subsidies had been carried through to the consumers. In other words, the $5m plus the $lm which is to be appropriated following the passage of these Bills is to be paid to the following international oil companies: Ampol Petroleum Ltd, BP Australia Ltd, Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd, Mobil Oil Australia Ltd, and the Shell Company of Australia Ltd. 
No machinery has been established by the Government, by the Department or by the Public Service bureaucracy to see whether the benefits are received by the consumers and I am not in a position to say whether that represents a straight out donation to the oil companies. Ampol received $ 1 56,309; BP received a little bit more than $lm; Caltex received $102,977; Mobil received 5649,089; and Shell received $2,153,596. These were amounts from public funds for the purpose of providing relief to people living in remote areas in the Northern Territory. When we asked the Departmental witness we were told that it was not the Department's responsibility to check on whether the benefits flowed down to the consumers. As far as the Committee has been able to ascertain no benefits have been received. Until proof to the contrary is made available to the Committee it is entitled to assume that the Government's intention in this respect has been thwarted by the inability of the Government to provide the mechanisms to ensure that the consumer in fact receives the benefit of $5m of taxpayers' money. I think that indicates either incompetence or duplicity. Maybe it is just plain deceit. 
If large sums of taxpayers' money are made available for the purpose of providing relief to rural persons in terms of petroleum products and the machinery is not established to see that the benefits flow on, one can say only that one has an incompetent government. One would find it difficult to understand why this information had to be sought out by an Estimates Committee nine months after the moneys had been appropriated in the first place, only to be told that no mechanism was ever established to see whether the money in fact flowed to those who were to benefit. Certainly we would not want that sort of money to be paid to the oil companies. Possibly the oil companies are not guilty in this particular matter- I do not know and the Committee does not know- but I think the Committee ultimately will make a recommendation to the Senate for the purpose of trying to establish some propriety and some proper supervision of the way in which public funds are expended. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition seeks to condemn the Government and to put a finger on the Government's inability to accept its proper responsibilities. It indicates to the Australian people that this Government is not carrying out its proper responsibilities so far as its election promises are concerned and so far as its proper economic management of the Australian economy is concerned. We can only hope that some attempt will be made by the Parliament to understand the incompetence of this Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the announcement by the Minister for Health of the establishment of the National Health Promotion Program, which seeks to place emphasis on the prevention of disease and unhealthy lifestyles. Can the Minister say whether the Government has noted the various statements by scientists and nutritionists that consumption of fast food and excessive consumption of sugar and salt contribute to the ill health of great numbers of Australians? Has the Government seen the current issue of  New Doctor,  which details evidence that dramatic changes in the food industry have resulted in the production and excessive advertising of processed food, with the resultant progressive deterioration of the Australian diet? The publication also states that 20 major companies producing such processed food are foreign owned. Can the Minister assure the Senate that the statement of the Minister for Health that 'despite huge national expenditure on health services the overall health of Australians is not improving' means that the Government will seriously begin a campaign to educate the community about such dietary problems, or is this just another piece of Government gimmickry? 
-On behalf of  Senator Keeffe  I present the following petition from 120 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920.000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension payments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Electoral Officer,  Mr Pearson,  has carried out a survey of informal votes cast during the 1975 and 1977 elections? Is it a fact that  Senator Chaney,  when he was Minister for Administrative Services, was involved in that survey being initiated? Does the survey show that the great majority of informal votes were cast for candidates of the Australian Labor Party? Can the Minister say what the purpose of the survey is? Is it a fact that it is intended to make the survey available to the Parliament so that optional preferential voting can be instituted with the intention that all votes properly recorded will be properly reflected in the ultimate result? 
The Opposition is not satisfied with the Government's explanation on this matter, although we appreciate that there has been some attempt by  Senator Carrick  to rectify a grievous mistake that was made at Question Time this morning. If we were concerned about the truth it would not matter what the questions and answers were in any part of this building. They should be identical. But the answers today were not identical. No amount of posturing, vehemence or throwing around of arms by  Senator Puplick  can get away from the fact that different answers were given to the same question at two different points in time in two different parts of the building. The Government is in crisis about this issue, and has been so for a considerable time. In fact, it was  Senator Puplick,  concerned about his own Government's attitude to drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, who helped to spark the fire that has been burning in this chamber for several weeks. 
The Government is in trouble and it ought to recognise that it is in trouble. It is in trouble because the oil companies, through the Queensland Government, have been putting pressure on the Federal Government. If  Senator Puplick  expects us to accept the statements that are made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this issue when he has been proven time and time again to have mislead not only the Parliament but also the Australian people about interest rates, unemployment, inflation and pensions, he is outside the world of reality. A simple statement by the Prime Minister will not satisfy the concern of the Opposition about the Government's intentions in respect of the Great Barrier Reef. We know that this Government is afraid of the Queensland Government. It has shown itself to be so in respect of its attitude to Aborigines in that State. It is afraid of the dog in the manger attitude of the Queensland Government and the way in which it operates in respect of its State development. 
Have we not shown over the last six or seven weeks that we have been involved in an attempt to establish the truth or otherwise of the Government 's intentions with regard to oil drilling on the Barrier Reef? True,  Senator Wriedt  has waged a relentless pressure campaign in this place seeking information about the Government's intention. Throughout this country there has been a concern that the Government was using some of its usual doubletalk in respect of the Great Barrier Reef. That concern has been reflected right through the political spectrum, including questions asked in this place by  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Martin.  It has been reflected even in the editorial comments of many newspapers in this country and in the comments of those concerned with conservation. We make no apology for having put the Government on guard with respect to its attitude on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. 
What has been the attitude of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)?  We have heard Dorothy Dix questions on a whole range of matters so that  Senator Webster  could give long and detailed answers. Obviously the questions asked by Government senators were prepared by his department. But every time questions on this subject were asked from this side of the chamber, rude and insulting replies were given to  Senator Wriedt, Senator Button  and  Senator Georges.  We have been accused of stealing documents. We have been subjected to personal abuse. When finally the question of all questions was asked, almost simultaneously in this place and in the other place, we received two separate answers.  Senator Button's  question was identical to the second half of the question that was asked by  Mr Humphreys  of  Mr Newman  in the House of Representatives. 
It is all right for  Senator Puplick  to try to yell and to push down our throats that we ought to know what is going on in both Houses of Parliament. If the Government has nothing to hide and is telling the truth, the answers that are given in the other place ought to be identical with the answers that are given in this place. But they are not. They are different answers. Let us look as what  Senator Webster  said in his explanation subsequent to what he had said in the earlier part of his reply to  Senator Button's  question. He said: 
I raise a point of order,  Mr President.  I have been in touch with my office and have been informed that  Mr Newman  has advised that he answered yes to two questions, which were not the questions which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate is attempting to infer. 
Yet Government senators have the gall to say that  Senator Webster  is blameless and is not involved in a cover-up and in misleading the Senate. Of course he has been involved in a cover-up. Of course, as  Senator Wriedt  has shown from time to time, he has been involved in conflicts. Yet this is the senator whom  Senator Puplick  would have us believe is expressing government policy in this place in the same vein as did the Minister for National Development,  Mr Newman,  in the other place. 
One sees the way in which other Government Ministers answer questions in this place. In front of  Senator Webster  we see a pile of papers that one could not jump over. He has before him all the detailed answers, but when we exercise our rights and obligations to question the Government about its policies- reflecting concern felt throughout Australia about its intentions, because in so many other areas of policy its statements have been blown high- we are subjected to a number of personal abuses, and the implication that the intentions of the Government are pure but those ofthe Opposition are impure. 
Without question, the propriety of this Government's conduct is on the line. Time will tell what actually happened. In this place the truth invariably comes to the fore. Whether, as alleged,  Mr Sinclair  took the running in this in order to protect his Minister here; whether  Mr Newman  is the fall guy; whether  Mr Newman  is in fact telling the truth in the House of Representatives; or whether  Senator Webster  misled  Senator Carrick,  the fact is that we have three separate answers to what is substantially and fundamentally the same question. So someone is culpable and no amount of the use of numbers, yelling, or prevarication will get us away from the basic fact that somewhere in this matter of drilling on the Great Barrier Reef something has yet to be brought to the light of day. 
I would hazard a guess that the Department of National Development is indeed a development department; that it is concerned about going along with the statements of the Queensland Government, and those of  Mr Camm,  who is on the public record as wanting to drill the Great Barrier Reef. We know what is the intention of the Queensland Government in this matter. We know that when it exerts pressure this Federal Government goes to water. So there can be no suggestion that we will accept the assurances, glib as they are, that  Senator Webster  was somehow misinformed; that somehow he created a wrong impression in the mind of  Senator Carrick.  I can understand  Senator Carrick  's attempt to rectify a very unsavoury and unsatisfactory position. But it is incredible that three Ministers who, according to  Senator Puplick  and  Senator Chaney,  have noble motivations, and express Government policy, should be placed in this position. They are there because in one way or another they have committed a misdemeanour, the misleading of both Houses of Parliament over what would be a simple issue if the Government 's motivations were beyond question. Certainly on this issue, in the light of its general electoral record, they leave very much to be desired. 
I am not so sure that we should be demanding the resignation of  Senator Webster  or  Mr Newman.  I suppose that we may be fairly confident that we will not be demanding the resignation of  Senator Carrick.  But let us examine the point made by  Senator Walsh-  that when  Mr Newman  replied to the questions which sparked the fire here, it took him several hours to rectify the position. Had he misheard the question one would have thought that the Prime Minister himself, if not involved in some sort of a double fix or double talk, would have stood up in the House of Representatives and said: 'That is not the real position at all'. These are surely matters that have been discussed at some length in the Cabinet room. Surely the fact that the Opposition has moved two censure motions in the last month against  Senator Webster  and that he has adopted the dog-in-the-manger attitude that he has would have indicated to the Government that the Opposition had some concern. Surely  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Chaney-  the only two Ministers in the Chamber who seem to be interested in the issue- would accept from us the view that we have a general concern about this; that we are, in fact, reflecting our general concern about what is to happen to the Barrier Reef. When  Senator Carrick  joins the fray he falls, as it were, into a pit of scalding water and quite some time elapses before he is able to extricate himself from the circumstances that subsequently develop. We have repeatedly asked simple questions about a particular area of the reef. For instance:  ls it a fact that the Capricornia section ofthe Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area covered by permits Q 4P and Q 5P infringe on the proposed section of the Marine Park? 
How does that constitute a question that cannot be answered simply? In the House of Representatives it was answered by the one word, 'yes'. Several hours later that was changed. In the Senate we had insulting remarks and rudeness, personal attacks and finally we saw  Senator Carrick  entering the ball game. I will guarantee that now he wishes he had not opened his sweet little mouth about it, because we are in a situation which must be regarded by the Government, and is in fact, a crisis for the Government. There is no point in Government supporters suggesting otherwise. The issue will have to come to the surface. The light of day will shine on the way in which these three Ministers have not only misled the Senate but also cast serious reflections upon the acting Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Button,  today. 
To their credit, the Ministers concerned have withdrawn their imputations, but  Senator Webster,  even though prepared to do that, went on to say that these were not the questions that the acting Leader of the Opposition was attempting to imply that they were. Therefore, even if one were to wipe clean the slate in regard to the guilt that obviously rests in  Senator Webster's  corner, he has still to explain the answer that he gave to the Senate in respect to the questions asked of him today by  Senator Button.  The Government is in an incredible mess because it has something to hide, because it is being screwed by the oil companies. Those companies know that there are great areas in the Barrier Reef region which have oil deposits. There are people in this country who do not give a damn about conservation or protecting our natural environment. They are substantially to be found in the Queensland National Country Party Government. It is not without some significance that it is a National Party Minister in this place who has been put on the stock by members of his own Government parties as well as members of the Opposition. It is because he has endeavoured to cover up, has been rude and has something to hide, and it is because the Government is involved in some underhand dealings with the Queensland Government that this Government is in the sort of trouble that it is in today. 
I present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Are householders required to provide a receptacle for the reception of mail articles delivered by Australia Post? Can the Minister say whether householders are required to receive other than mail in their boxes? Does the householder have any redress in relation to such receptacles being filled with advertising material? Is the Minister aware of the growing resentment in the community at the unauthorised use of letter boxes by major business houses? Has the Government received any complaints from Australia Post about letter boxes being so filled with advertising junk that articles of mail cannot be properly delivered? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note or the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether his attention has been drawn to the voluminous report on the incidence of lead in the air and its harmful effects on children in Sydney arising from the growing use of petroleum products. Has the Government noted the remarks of Professor Lloyd Smythe that the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council has refused an application for funds to carry on his important research work and his statement that the Government does not seem to be too concerned about the adverse effects of energy consumption? Will the Government reconsider its position in view of its stated purposes to take steps to improve public health and prevent illnesses generally? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I wish to endorse the remarks made by  Senator Mulvihill.  We all recognise that he has played a significant part in resolving the problems associated with some of the groups that have occupied a more than unusual role in recent years in endeavouring to divide the Yugoslav communities in our country. I think I can say that the Opposition would support the Government's intentions in this matter. Legislation on this matter was passed some time ago and we have been awaiting the second stage of the legislative process- that is, for the Government to make a decision to apply the Act, and to call upon those who designate themselves as the 'Croatian Embassy' to cease activities which relate to our relationship with other countries. 
I think it is a matter of great regret that some of these people have been able to create the impression in the Australian community that they represent a strong view in the Yugoslav community. In fact they represent a small minority view that is associated with an expression of nationalism which in itself contradicts the very strong trends of federalism that exist in the state of Yugoslavia. Of course, their view ignores the very important role that Yugoslavia is playing in developing the bridges between the major powers of the world. I refer particularly to the non-aligned movement which now embraces some 81 countries. Yugoslavia is playing a very important role in that movement for a new international economic order and for raising the living standards of all of the people in what can be generally described as Third World nations. 
I think it is a matter of regret that small groups in our community should seek to establish a position independent from that of the State of Yugoslavia which, after all, suffered greatly during World War II. In the intervening years it has endeavoured, quite successfully I believe, to raise the living standards of its people. Yugoslavia also occupies a very important role in the divided Europe that arose at the end of World War II. 
We have been aware of the development of terrorist movements that claim to speak on behalf of the Croatian community. We are aware, of course, that these groups do not speak on behalf of that community; that in fact the overwhelming majority of Croatians and Yugoslav migrants who have come to Australia have settled and have proved themselves to be good citizens willing to accept the democratic and open way in which Australian community life develops. They do not want to be caught up in the web of international intrigue which unfortunately has been part of the movement around the Croatian Embassy'. 
We do not, of course, want to go over the difficult days of 1973 when the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia came to this country as a guest of the Government following an invitation extended by the previous Government during 1971-72. We know of the endeavours of a small minority of malcontents who tried to create social tension within the Yugoslav communities and within the Australian community generally, and all that flowed from that. I think we have waited long enough for steps to be taken by the Federal Government to put an end to self-styled embassies that seek to abrogate the right of the official embassies of governments with which we enjoy close and friendly relations. 
I think there has been a very good relationship between the Government of Yugoslavia and the Australian Government regardless of the changes in composition of the Australian Government, and that is the way it should be. I think the Opposition would commend the Government for the steps it has taken in accordance with the legislation. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  indicated in his statement that some negotiations will take place with those people who style themselves as the 'Croatian Embassy'. As a result of those negotiations the Croatian Embassy', so styled in Canberra, should cease to exist as an institution and as an embarrassment to the Australian Government. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
As was stated in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and as was repeated in this place in the very brief second reading speech- it was an almost insultingly brief speech of some four paragraphsdelivered by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  the purpose of the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on behalf of the Commonwealth to guarantee borrowings raised by Qantas Airways Limited to finance the purchase of its eighteenth and nineteenth Boeing 747 aircraft. This guarantee, as is the custom, is limited to 80 per cent of the total purchase price of the two aircraft; in this case, $US94m or the equivalent. The Opposition does not disagree with the aim or the effects of the Bill. For once the Government has managed to reconcile these two aspects, which is truly a notable achievement. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to certain general matters relating to the activities and performance of our national carrier. Before I do that, I indicate on behalf of the Opposition how disappointed we are at the small number of opportunities afforded to the Parliament to oversee and to examine the activities of our national carrier, as well as those of our national enterprises, statutory bodies and authorities. These public authorities are important not only because they perform a function on behalf of the Australian people but also because they employ large numbers of people and expend tremendous sums of taxpayers' money. In fact, they form an important segment of our national economic effort. Little opportunity is afforded to the Parliament to examine their activities. As we have seen from the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, of which  Senator Rae  is  Chairman,  there is a lot to be desired as far as the general public accountability is concerned. 
I draw attention to the pathetic lack of information provided by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  when asking Parliament to approve the borrowing capacities that are expressed in this Bill. We are told nothing of the financial strength or otherwise of Qantas or what financial contribution or burden the purchase of these aircraft will effect. Thus we are placed in a position where the Senate is required to make a decision on this matter without any knowledge of the liquidity position or the projected results, strategy or objectives of Qantas. It is our view that only the Minister can provide this information. He has not deigned to do so. I think that is a matter of regret. We hope it will be taken into account by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  who is in charge of the Bill in this place. In future when annual pieces of legislation are brought before the Parliament we hope that we might be given an opportunity to examine the activities of these public corporations. 
Honourable members will note that one aircraft will engage in a combi-type activity. It will be able to carry extra cargo with fewer passengers. We are told that it will improve the air cargo services between Australia and Frankfurt. The second aircraft will be a standard one and will cope with peak traffic periods. I do not think it is unfair to say that what has happened in international traffic movements over the last year or so has certainly caught the Government napping. It is probably true to say that the tourist industry and the airline industry has been caught unprepared for the great upsurge in public response to travel as a result of the decision to make international airlines more accessible to the average person. Once travel was restricted, perhaps, to a smaller number of people, a more affluent group in our society. Today travel comes within the reach of an increasing number of people. 
To some extent we did not plan for this eventuality The Government was caught unprepared for the increased demand. This has enabled overseas airlines to capitalise on the desires of an increasing number of Australians to travel abroad. The Minister, in the four brief paragraphs of his second reading speech, mentioned that Qantas was planning to increase the capacity of each aircraft to 455 seats. He gave no information on what impact this would have on the economics of each aircraft. We hope that with the increased capacities, public facilities on the aircraft will be taken into consideration. Those who have used international aircraft will support, I am sure, my general comment and criticism about the lack of ordinary, mundane facilities which ought to be available for such long trips. 
The lack of information provided by the Government is bad enough. But for the lack to exist at a time of heated public debate- let us face it, there has been very extensive public debate- is nothing short of criminal. It means that the Australian public is being fed information from a variety of sources. I do not want to be one of those associated with a general criticism of Qantas, although criticism is being echoed fairly widely in our country, both in the Parliament and in the media generally. Many people in the public relations area have been on the anti-Qantas bandwagon. I do not want to be associated with that other than to say that if the Government does not provide the Parliament with information then so much of the mud that is thrown at organisations like Qantas is likely to stick. Unfortunately this seems to be the natural environment of this Government. It appears actively to encourage lack of information. This is not surprising in view of its own record of giving misinformation. 
We are told that for 1977-78 Qantas paid a dividend to the Commonwealth of $6.44m. The reason for the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  bypassing Parliament to buy Malcolm Fraser's flying hotels was that Qantas needed the $ 10.2m payment urgently. Yet 
Qantas plans to spend $7. 8m in advertising this year. If the Government had taken the proper course and put through a special appropriation Bill in respect of those purchases all this and maybe more would have come out. We are encouraged to believe that the Government would not have allowed that to happen. On top of this, we discover, not from reports to Parliament but from the  Australian Financial Review,  that Qantas is pushing for fare increases. We are not told why. We can only come to conclusions based on Press comments. Maybe Qantas will spend more money in advertising. Maybe that is justified, having regard to the conflict that we find ourselves faced with in relation to some of the European airlines. This applies particularly to loaded aircraft travelling to Europe. I think it is justifiable that Qantas wants to get as many passengers in return on a tourist basis to Australia in order to make the essential economies. The spending of nearly $8m for advertising ought to be a subject of public debate not only in the newspapers- although probably this is one of our few sources of information- but also information ought to be available in reports of the Ministers to Parliament. 
Another topic on which the Parliament is kept in complete ignorance is the possibility of a merger between Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas. How can a reasoned assessment of this proposal be made without access to the full facts? Unfortunately it is only when Bills like this come before Parliament that we are given any opportunity to raise these matters for consideration. Crucial information such as the Administrative Review Council report and the review of transport business undertakings conducted by  Sir James  McNeill is still not available to the House. The shadow of secrecy also applies to the negotiations on cheap fares from Australia to Italy. We have only part of that story. The continuous delay in the negotiation of this fare is outright discrimination against a sector of the Australian population. Whilst we can probably appreciate the difficulty that the Minister is facing in negotiating with some of the countries of Europe, the fact is that he knows the circumstances; the Parliament does not. 
There is also the problem of fares. When will we find out the true story of the purchase of the aeroplanes for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)?  When will we know whether the objections that were raised administratively were overruled, whether we were given the full story and whether the second international airline that we now have is required for the Prime Minister's personal use. The Prime Minister was asked questions on this matter by children at a breakfast party yesterday. Of course he replied to the obvious criticism from the young children and said that he would be prepared to allow his flying hotels to be used to bring refugees to this country. I have some doubts about that. Nevertheless, that is the way the Prime Minister replied to the questions. 
When will we see the international fare cuts mirrored on internal flights? As honourable senators know, there have been views widely expressed in the Parliament and in the Australian community about the costs involved in internal flights and what a factor Australia's inability to have the sort of economies that have been applied to international flights applied to domestic flights is in the tourist industry. Therefore, this position affects the tourist traffic into our country. I do not think it would be unfair to say that so far this Government has done little more than carry out a public relations exercise for TAA and Ansett. It is patently obvious to the Opposition that the only aim of the recent internal fare reforms was to prop up TAA and Ansett by smoothing out the demand for seats with the least possible inconvenience to the airlines and the greatest possible inconvenience to the public. Those who travel extensively on Australia's domestic airlines must surely agree with me about the deterioration in service which seems to be a part of domestic airline operations in recent times. 
I do not want it to be misunderstood that the Opposition will oppose the Qantas Airways Ltd (Loan Guarantee) Bill. However, the Opposition feels that when its sources of information to discover details of Qantas policy and financial strength have to be provided from journals such as the  Australian Financial Review  and other newspapers- no matter how reputable they may be- it is a deplorable state of affairs. One does not know whether there is merit in a statement such as that which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  on 4 March this year in which Qantas is reported to be facing a loss of nearly $70m over the fall in the value of the Australian dollar. The Parliament is not informed of this. If that is the case, it has a very substantial effect upon the profitability and the liquidity of what would otherwise be regarded as a very important and viable public instrumentality. 
The article states that  Sir Lennox  Hewitt has made statements that Qantas was caught out so far as the value of the Australian dollar was concerned and that this has very materially affected the profit ratio of Qantas. Similarly, in the  Australian  of 3 1 March we were informed by a journalist that Qantas was planning a fare rise. This Bill was introduced into the Parliament on 10 May last. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 72 May confirms the general criticism that the Opposition is making in relation to Qantas considering operating a Lakertype charter flight next year to cope with the overwhelming demand for low air fare seats to the United Kingdom. They are important matters of policy. Whilst it is true that it lies within the province of the corporation to make those business decisions, when honourable senators are confronted with a statement made by the  Chairman  of Qantas that it stands to lose a very considerable sum of money as a result of the depreciation of the Australian dollar, it is a matter that is not to be treated lightly. 
The Opposition is equally concerned- as I am sure all honourable senators are- with the threat that has been made within the last few days in Berlin. This involves a serious dispute between the West German tourist industry and Qantas over Qantas seeking to get part of the backload from Germany to Australia as it takes Australian citizens into that part of Europe. The German Travel Agents' Association has put pressure on the German Government to stop Qantas from advertising for potential customers in West Germany. From looking at Press statements over the last few months, I would say that Qantas has more than its fair share of critics in Parliament. It certainly has more than its fair share of critics in the media. I can understand the concern that has been expressed by some honourable senators, but honourable senators have to accept that Qantas is a national airline. Generally speaking, it is one that operates successfully. I have found from my trips abroad that Qantas is a very responsible and well organised public authority. But there are these concerns that are constantly being expressed. Perhaps they ought to be discussed in Parliament with a view to making some recommendations to the organisation. 
Whilst I accept the fact that, as a public instrumentality, the business side should be left entirely to the management of the organisation, nevertheless, when we are talking about profitability and talking about the Government acting as a guarantor for large sums of money every year, it is within our area of responsibility to say that there ought to be much more public accountability. To that degree, the Opposition feels that the Minister for Transport has been remiss in not providing that sort of information to the Parliament. Of course, the threats that are made from time to time against Qantas in its overseas dealings are an indication of how European countries and the companies that operate in those countries- as well as those in the area of the Association of South East Asian Nationsresent the operation of public authorities such as Qantas. Some of these countries resort to protectionism when it suits their own interests, whilst they give lip-service in the international forums to the need for such freer trade and movement of public facilities and services throughout the world. 
I wish to conclude by saying that the debates in the Senate today have been more muted and more passive. I think that indicates a certain atmosphere that is the aftermath of last evening. I hope that the Government will draw some conclusions from that. If the Parliament is to operate, it has to operate in a spirit of co-operation and conciliation. Whilst Government objectives are important, so is the role of Parliament. It is important for the Parliament to exercise its rights, whether it suits the government of the day or not. The Parliament has its rights. Sometimes we are put in a position in which the Government considers itself to be the Parliament. When it does that and is not prepared to act in a conciliatory way and discuss with the Opposition what are its program and objectives in that program, then we get the sort of backlash that was so evident last evening. 
As one who has some responsibilities in looking after legislation for my party, not only in the Senate but in the other place, I believe that the Government's legislative program can be described only as being disorganised. It is in somewhat of a shambles. Debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill 1979 was gagged in this place - 
That matters not. It was an important piece of legislation. Debate was finally gagged in this place because the Bill had to go to the other place. Now it will not even be considered there. We have other important pieces of legislation which require the serious consideration of the Parliament and we are expected to deal with them in a matter of hours. In fact we need days properly to consider that legislation. After all, we are in this mess because of the mini-Budget that was brought down less than a week ago. We are in this mess because of the way in which the education guidelines were brought into the Parliament. We still do not know, for example, whether the legislation to establish the Federal Police is to be dealt with in the other place or not. Yet we have from my side of the fence something in excess of 40 amendments to place in regard to that piece of legislation. How can that be dealt with sensibly in the House of Representatives and then go into the Committee stage? 
It is the Federal Police Bill. We need time to have it properly dealt with in this place in the sort of time scale which the Government has set itself. That is one of the reasons why we reacted in the way we did last evening. If the Government wants to bring in a mini-Budget and the 10 associated taxation Bills that flow from that decision, if it wants to deal with matters associated with education, if it wants to continue its program in the latter part of this session and wants the co-operation of the Opposition- I believe that is the only way in which the Parliament can work- then the Opposition is entitled to present its viewpoints about the role of the Parliament as distinct from the role of the Government. There is a conflict here. If the Government is to persist in that sort of action it is not going to be a very workable arrangement. AH I can say is that we are obviously a very tired Senate today. It has been a much quieter time and we would hope that we are not going to subject senators to a repetition this evening of the pattern of behaviour that developed on Tuesday night. 
These are matters that we want to discuss and debate. There are points of view which I am sure  Senator Collard  wants to present. We do that every year. Behind me, my colleague  Senator Sibraa  also wants to make a contribution. We do not want to be put in a position whereby, in the Government's interest that we speedily get up the Parliament, we are denied what we consider to be our responsibility to the Parliament; that is properly to debate the issues before the Parliament. I ask the Government to take into consideration that the Opposition does not have a negative attitude but rather a positive attitude of wanting to fulfil its role as a responsible Opposition. 
I want to add a few brief words before the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  replies. I want to say principally that the Opposition has been forced to curtail the number of speakers it had listed to speak to this Bill, although many of us have had substantial representations made to us about it, in view of the difficulties that exist with the timetable. I want it to be noted in the record that the reason the Opposition is not marshalling its full resources is that the Government has set a tight timetable for the legislative program. 
I want to add a few words to what has been said by  Senator Sibraa,  and particularly to take up the point made by  Senator Knight  who seems to adopt the view that there are probably deficiencies in the Bill and in the processes and procedures by which the Government's economic objectives will be realised. Let us fact the fact the basic strategy of the legislation is to realise the Government's overall philosophical objective of attacking the public sector and reducing its size and effectiveness. In the process of reaching that objective the Government has not appreciated, as is evident by the contribution of Government supporters to the debate, the degree of confusion and uncertainty that will now be a marked feature of the Public Service. It is all right for  Senator Knight  to say in this chamber that if certain deficiencies are proven to exist in the legislation he will come back to the Parliament with certain amendments. That is like trying to protect the horse after the stable door has been opened and it has already bolted: It is a bit too late when the problem has already been created. 
The approach of the Opposition to this Bill, as evidenced by its proposed amendments, has been designed to strengthen the measure and to take into consideration the views of the vast majority of those who are employed in the PublicService. I direct attention to the response from the employees, who hitherto have not been in that group of the work force that could be described as active unionists, namely, people involved in the day to day struggles that are synonymous with the blue collar work force of this country. The members of the Public Service have been reasonably passive, one might even say disinterested, in their approach to industrial issues and job opportunities. As  Senator Ryan  correctly points out, there has been a recognition of this and an appeals process which has given them the opportunity, particularly as related to promotions and other disputes, to have those disputes dealt with according to due processes of consultation. 
The fact that there has been a widespread reaction, a degree of concern and ultimately some industrial action taken only highlights the fact that it is not sufficient for the Government to say that it will rectify problems after they have been detected. The employees, and those whom they elect to represent them- to protect their economic and social interests- the members of the various associations and unions, have seen fit to employ their own research organisation on the Bill and its ramifications. In the process they have attended, in numbers, meetings at which they have heard reports from their elected officials and have subsequently taken certain action. There can be no question but that for the first time in the industrial history of this country there exists in the Commonwealth Public Service a degree of apprehension, fear, concern and perhaps militancy. It has been expressed for the first time as a result of this Government's proposals and was even reflected in decisions that were made at the conference of the Returned Services League last weekend. 
There are four main faults in the legislation, as the Opposition sees it. Firstly, efficient and capable officers can be sacked merely because a change in the priorities of the Government of the day has occured. We have seen some evidence of this. Secondly, management-initiated early retirement can become the parameter upon which the legislation will operate. It can only be described as a trendy term for retrenchment. It takes away, with one fell blow, the whole security aspect of employment which has been synonymous with the Commonwealth PublicService. 
The Bill 's only appeal provision forces an employee to name his or her workmate as an alternative person to be sacked, and introduces into the Public Service an entirely new feature. The Government could avoid all of this conflict by legislating for voluntary early retirement. The Opposition does not oppose that principle, if that be the wish of those who consider themselves to be in a career position. 
Finally, although the Government denies that its concern is to turn the screws on the Public Service, that has indeed been synonymous with its approach since it came to office in 1975. It is no wonder that there is concern and apprehension in the ranks of the Public Service, particularly when, as the Coombs report says: 
Substantial evidence exists that the vast majority of Cabinet Ministers are completely unaware of the impact of ceilings upon their departments and hence have paid them only lip service. 
Of course, that is what is happening in respect of that application of government policy concerning the Public Service. The imposition of an overall cut, without an appreciation that it has been in areas where cuts ought not to have been applied, has created so many of the difficulties that exist in public administration. I find it incomprehensible that  Senator Knight,  who himself is a public servant and who represents, or claims to represent, the public servants in this city, the national capital of Australia, should adopt such an attitude. In fact, I would have thought that he would have adopted a much more critical and appreciative understanding of the views of those whom he claims to represent, those who were once his workmates in public service organisations. The report states further: 
Ceilings have assumed too much ofthe aura of a euphemistic political ploy. They have produced breakdowns in various parts of the government administration in the long term, and they have proved incapable of handling shortterm crises. They have proved incompatible with public sector planning. Although exerting some controlling influence over numerical movements in staff, they have produced minimal influence upon efficiency and resource allocation in departments. 
I quote that section of the Coombs report as just one piece of evidence of the failure of  Senator Knight  and other government spokesmen to understand how government policy has affected the morale and efficiency of the very important areas of responsibility that fall upon the Commonwealth Public Service. The Senate will be failing in its duty if it does not consider very seriously the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
The Australian Labor Party supports the provision of financial assistance to the States for the upgrading of the mainline railway network. The Opposition sees the provision of this assistance as a matter of considerable importance, and to this extent there is a common approach to the central aim of this Bill- the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill. Naturally, the Opposition will not be opposing the legislation. However, whilst the aim of this Bill is commendable, the paltry sum of money that is made available in the Bill makes a mockery of that aim. Over the total five-year period which the Bill covers a maximum sum of $70m is to be made available to four States, namely, New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. I will make some reference later to the fact that South Australia and Tasmania are not included in the proposed allocation. If the money is distributed equally, an amount of only $14m will be provided to four States in any year. In the 1 978-79 Budget an amount of only $3m for each State has already been provided to assist the States in the upgrading of mainline operations. Generally, and in particular during this financial year, the sum provided is tiny in comparison with that which is needed to provide an adequate rail system in Australia. 
I do not think anyone would disagree that society today requires a modern public transport system which, of course, includes a modern railway system. If the living standards of our consumer society are to be maintained it is obvious that a good deal needs to be done to improve our facilities for conveying goods from one part of the country to another. If we were to look back in time we would realise that the impetus for the great industrial development in this country took place following the provision of railway systems which were constructed in the last century principally by the States. The Commonwealth Government subsequently accepted responsibility for the establishment of a national railway network. Unfortunately, we now see that our railway systems have declined very considerably because of the problems associated with backing financially our public rail systems. 
As a result of post-war development we have seen the emergence of a new phenomena in Australia and that is, of course, the private transport system competing with, and offen running side by side as well as complementing the public railway system. We have seen the development of major private sector operators. Whilst there are many small companies it must be said that three or four companies stand out. They are IPEC, Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, Brambles Holdings Ltd and Mayne Nickless Ltd. Those companies appeared on the scene in the post-war years, and they are companies which have been very profitable in the transport area. This indicates that the private sector has perhaps been more aware of the profitability of and the need for an efficient transport system than perhaps has the Government in the postwar years. 
To illustrate the extent of the Labor Party's commitment to public transport one has only to refer to the fact that in the brief three-year period of the Whitlam Labor Government energetic steps were taken by that Government to accept its responsibililties in respect of public transport. Not only did we spend great sums on urban public transport, but also we very generously offered to accept the financial liability of the States' railway systems. South Australia took up the offer with respect to its railway system outside the metropolitan area, and of course that has been a great boon to the State's finances. Similarly, the Tasmanian Government accepted the offer of the Commonwealth when the Whitlam Government was in office. That State's railways are now the Commonwealth's responsibility. I do not think there is any question that through the years and, indeed, in the recent period when it was in government nationally, the Labor Party has accepted the important principle that the Commonwealth should be responsible for funding the upgrading of our main line railway systems. 
According to the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Sydney-Brisbane route, one of the most congested main lines in Australia, requires upgrading at an estimated cost of $2 1 m in 1 976 and $26.8m in 1978. Bureau of Transport Economics' estimates can be found for other vitally needed services. In 1979 dollars they amount to something like $12m for the extension of crossing loops on the Adelaide line between Melbourne and Serviceton and $7.8m for upgrading the Sydney-Melbourne line. The estimates for the three projects amount to something like $46m. These figures include only the cost of constructing the necessary crossing loops and some other extensions on the lines. They omit completely the cost of the necessary replacement of old wooden bridges- which necessitate in this day and age special speed restrictions, considerably delaying main passenger train journeys and other vital aspects of line upgrading. 
By comparison, the Public Transport Commission in my State of New South Wales has committed $200m to upgrading its many lines, particularly the main lines. In its first year of operation it spent $43m, of which $7.6m was spent on the purchasing of mechanised track machines alone. Thus, even for the few projects mentioned above the true cost of proper upgrading, together with the purchasing of modern rolling stock, may well exceed the $70m allocated by this Government for the upgrading of all main lines in the four nominated States. Of course, no mention is made of the other States. The legislation, in particular section 42 of the principal Act, is so broad as to allow the Minister for Transport to pick and choose just how he wishes the paltry sums that are provided on a yearly basis to be allocated to different projects. The legislation allows an open field for the Minister to allocate this money- not in the national interest. We have heard some concern that this decision should not be left open to the degree that the legislation allows. The money may then be spent in the interest of attracting votes, a situation not without precedent for the present coalition Government. Even if the money is deployed in the national interest it still is not enough. For example, no funds are provided towards the creation of the much needed high speed rail link between Canberra and Sydney. Even with the existing service, demand often exceeds supply. 
Our inquiries show that the cost of a high speed train link which would cut the travel time from five to three hours would cost about $35 m, plus rolling stock. Where are the funds to come from for this? Obviously they can come only from the Federal revenue. We have seen this Government continuing its obsession with deficit budgeting, a feature which from time to time has been exposed by members of conservative governments. I refer particularly to W. C. 
Wentworth, a former Liberal member from New South Wales, and  Sir William  McMahon, who have pointed out that the provision of this sort of public facility by which public assets are created which are of lasting benefit to the community should not be seen in the context of deficit funding. 
The presentation of this Bill has occurred in a way that fails to examine the national transport problem of Australia. There is no indication, for example, that this money is to be co-ordinated with spending on the whole spectrum of national transport services, but it is vitally necessary that such co-ordination should take place. Nor is there any indication that ancillary funds will be provided to improve the services at the terminals of the upgraded main lines. Without such funds, the bottleneck simply will move from one point to another. Nor is there any indication of the role that the Australian National Railways is to play in the new scheme or what funding it is to receive for new projects. Clearly this Government plan does not appreciate the vital role which the Opposition suggested it should appreciate that railways should and will have to play in Australia's future. 
What, then, is the Government's motivation for the Bill? The overall transport strategy that this Government follows is revealed in a series of reports recently put out by the Australian Railways Union National Office Research Project into Railways and Transport in Australia. These reports cogently show that the Fraser Government has been working to encourage and accelerate a fundamental restructure of Australian transport. The final objective of this transport reconstruction is to use national standard gauge interstate main lines as a backbone for a new concept- a national inland transport system. Coupled with this national standard gauge network will be a few well developed intrastate lines for the collection of mineral and rural products. In this scheme, the rail 's only other role would be urban passenger operations in the capital cities. The rest of inland transport in Australia would be serviced by road transport without rail. This seems to be the Government's plan. In this conservative Government's plan, Australian inland transport is to be handed over to the major freight forwarding companies, Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, Mayne Nickless Ltd and Brambles Holdings Ltd. The next few years will see the large scale closure of rail lines and services at a level far beyond what the Government is prepared to discuss in the second reading speech orin debates in the Parliament. 
The restructuring which has and which is intended to occur is based on the naive economist considerations of the British Beeching and Victorian Bland reports. Let us look at the case of Victoria to give but one example.  Sir Henry  Bland proposed that the railway protection measures, operative since the early 1930s through the Transport Regulation Board, be scrapped by the end of the 1970s. In his own simplistic and narrow way he believed that cutthroat free enterprise competition would cause the most economically efficient transport system to evolve. Of course that belief has seen the development of a private network system of transport operators which has proved to be highly profitable for those involved. Free competition has not brought the desired economic results. If we recognise today that in modern society transport costs have become a significant factor in the whole cost of production and distribution of goods, the simplistic notion of  Sir Henry  Bland has not been borne out in practice. 
The now announced phasing-out of the TRB in Victoria is to coincide with the upgrading of the Sydney-Melbourne main line. The upgrading of this line will increase traffic capacity by 90 per cent and freight tonnage by around 100 per cent. The National Freight Forwarders Association dominated by TNT, Mayne Nickless and Brambles, has already guaranteed that it will direct freight to absorb this new rail capacity as soon as it becomes available. Thus the road haulage capacity controlled by the big freight forwarders and capable of moving 1.5 million tonnes per annum between Sydney and Melbourne will become surplus. When the Melbourne-Serviceton upgrading is completed, the road haulage surplus will be compounded even further. 
All indications point to TNT, Mayne Nickless and Brambles deploying that surplus road capacity into the Victorian intrastate transport system. They intend to couple their access to freight at its point of origin with computer systems of freight co-ordination which they are now developing. They intend to operate a network of depots throughout the Victorian countryside. Those big freight forwarders are poised to take on the Victorian Railways Department. By providing the big trucks with flexible, looping itineraries and connecting them with wellequipped depots for rapid loading and unloading of completely palletised or containerised cargo, the big freight forwarders can destroy the isolated and vulnerable Vicrail freight branch and can wipe out a large number of new freight centres. That is what is on the drawing boards already. 
Since the end of the War Victoria has had more than double the miles of railway per unit of area than any other State of Australia. The key to post-War transport development in that State above all others could and should have been the railways. That, of course, indicates the correctness of the Government's action in making funds available, but it is doing so for the wrong reasons. Under the influence of the car lobbies and the road lobbies and under the rule of conservative governments, the opposite course has been adopted. The golden opportunity which was ours in the immediate post-War years has been squandered. By 1971 Victoria had over 60 per cent more bitumen or concrete road per mile of railway line than any other mainland State. The policies of this Government underlying this apparently pro-railway Bill are to continue and to accelerate the trend, not just in Victoria but throughout Australia. That policy is based on the narrow economic premises of the Beeching and Bland reports. It ignores the manifest and varied social benefits of providing an efficient railway network across Australia. The Government is chronically short-sighted in those objectives. 
According to an article in the  Australian of 26  July 1978, Esso Aust Ltd claimed that even if new oil had been discovered in Australia at that time the time required to develop new Australian fields would have been too long for us to escape the need to increase imports. According to Esso, an additional $6,000m on the import bill is likely. That will result in severe balance of paymerits problems. Esso has already called for reductions in Australian usage of commercial aircraft, electrification of railway lines and the development of alternatives to road transport. So here we have one of the major petroleum companies in Australia putting a different point of emphasis to the Australian Government. A $7,000m oil import Bill inescapably will mean further drastic contraction of Australian manufacturing and rural industry, skyrocketing structural unemployment and accelerating foreign takeover of Australia's natural resources. 
In the interests of the Australian people, we suggest that the orientation of the current program of transport sector restructuring should be reversed. It must be reversed. At a time when oil prices are rising inexorably and Australians are becoming increasingly aware of a looming shortage of liquid fuels, the extraordinary energy advantage of rail transport must be capitalised. I give an example of that advantage. A passenger car travelling between Canberra and Sydney incurs an energy cost of about 45 litres of fuel. Based on British experience, a high speed train will travel the same distance at an energy cost of about 4 litres a passenger. The pollution produced and the urban congestion caused by cars- and the energy consumption of cars- are many times what equivalent rail facilities cause. 
Over 60 per cent of our primary oil usage is for transport. By 1 985 half our oil supplies will be imported. Trains, which are eminently capable of being electrified and of being highly energy efficient, can tap our vast resources of coal and remove us from the constant threat and pressure of oil energy shortages. Trains should be regarded by any government worth its salt as the transport ofthe future. The Government, with its reluctance to give incentives, its failure to provide co-ordination, the meagreness of its financial contributions and, I believe, its inability to understand its anti-social objectives, appears to have its priorities firmly rooted in the past. 
I refer honourable senators to two important articles which have appeared in newspapers over the last month, one on 9 May and one on 10 May. The first one on 9 May quotes  Sir Peter  Abeles the Managing Director of TNT warning the Government of the fuel cost spiral and urging major government rail investments. He said:   we are hopeful that government- both Federal and State- will, in the national interest and in the interest of preserving hydrocarbons, make major investments in railways over the next decade. 
Of course, he is saying that because he wants the rail system to be subsidiary to the private transport operators. That is part of his strategy, but he is correct in suggesting that the Australian Government should accept some responsibility in terms of public investment in the railway system. There was a similar article written for a different purpose and written in another newspaper by Ken Thomas who now, of course, is well known as a transport authority, a person who, I think, was involved very heavily in the development of TNT enterprises until it was sold, but a person who now is involved as a transport consultant. He, of course, has pointed out the need for the railway system to become the primary source of transportation of goods and passengers in Australia. I think there is abundant evidence from those who have been engaged in the private sector activities, there is abundant evidence from those involved in the transport industry and there is abundant evidence from those associated with the Bureau of Transport Economics, to show that whilst the Government is paying some lip service to the principles of improving our national railway mainline services, in fact, the Government's overall strategy is, as it is in all other aspects of its economic policies for this country, astray and going in the wrong direction. 
Just as the Government has been unable to comprehend the social and economic forces that are operating nationally and internationally, just as it has been unable to comprehend that the private sector is never going to be able to take up the challenge of creating jobs and employment and development of our country, as it has singularly failed to do during the last decade or so, and just as this is part of a worldwide trend, so does this Government fail to understand the focal point of an efficient public transport system as being an essential requirement for any modern society. 
Having said that in what, I would suggest, is a constructive critical point of view in respect of this legislation, the Opposition nevertheless supports the Bill because it does at least make some token step in the direction of providing some additional funds for the upgrading of our mainline railway system in Australia. It is too little too late, but it is better to have it than not to have it. We support the legislation. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for: 
the creation of a single component force; 
the creation of rights of appeal in relation to transfers, promotions, discipline, demotions, retirements and dismissals; 
the power of appointment and dismissal of the Commissioner to be vested specifically in the GovernorGeneral in Council 
the conferring in the Minister of more extensive powers of direction of the Commissioner, subject to the requirement that any such directions be tabled in Parliament and gazetted; and 
a system for the independent determination of complaints against police in accordance with the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission; and this Senate is of the opinion that any reintroduction of this Bill should be accompanied by the introduction of a Criminal Investigation Bill, specifying the powers and duties of Federal police officers, in accordance with the recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission '. 
The Opposition is not opposed to the fundamental purpose of this Bill. We are however firmly opposed to several major parts of it. Primarily we are concerned with what is left out of the Bill. The omissions open up the whole functioning and administration of the Australian Federal Police to confuse and abuse. The step contemplated by the Government is very important- the amalgamation of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force with the Commonwealth Police Force and the redefining of the duty of that new Australian Federal Police. We believe that in this era of increasingly complex criminal activities, and the emergence of crimes of international as well as national scope and significance, there is a need for a rationalisation of the operation of the various non-State law enforcement agencies. 
In 1975 the Labor Government introduced a Bill to amalgamate the Commonwealth and the Australian Capital Territory Police in order to strengthen their operation. Why did we do that? In 1973, the Whitlam Labor Government established an inquiry into the functions of our law enforcement agencies. The inquiry was to examine problems such as drug abuse and the extension of that criminal activity in our country, which were beginning to manifest themselves at that stage. We became aware of the vast increase and movement on a global scale of international crime. We became aware of criminals becoming more sophisticated in their operations. We became aware of the development of a new phenomenon in crime, that is, white collar corporate crime, about which a lot has been written in the last half a dozen years or so. 
It was in light of these developments that in 1973 the Labor Government established an inquiry which culminated in the decision of the Labor Government in 1975 to take steps to amalgamate the Commonwealth Police Force with the Australian Capital Territory Police Force, but importantly, to transfer to that organisation the responsibility for drug detection in this country. The amalgamation was advocated for a number of reasons. There was already evidence of a lack of co-ordination of enforcement in areas of common interest; there was a duplication of effort by officers from the various agencies; there was wastefulness and inefficiency arising from the maintenance of separate information and intelligence systems; there were varying standards of training and recruitment; there was a lack of highly trained capacity to deal with white collar crime and there was a need to refer the investigation of some federal offences to State police agencies. We believed that in this era of increasingly complex criminal activities, there was a need for a new effort to be made at the national level. 
What was the response of the conservative parties? Subsequent to the attempts by the Labor Government to introduce this legislation in 1975, two members of the then Opposition went before the Commonwealth Police Officers Association and, in an hysterical outpouring about socialist policies being applied to Commonwealth police activities, gave a commitment to the Commonwealth Police Officers Association to oppose the moves that were inherent in the Labor Government 's propositions. They expressed their opposition strongly and vehemently, in the Parliament, in the media and in discussions with the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. 
What happened 4'A years later, on the basis of a report of an inquiry by  Sir Robert  Mark, the terms of reference of which were provided by  Mr P.  J. Lawler? On 1 March 1978,  Sir Robert  Mark was given his terms of reference to report to the then Minister for Administrative Services on the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area and other related matters. On 13 April 1978, some six weeks later, this report was published. On the basis of that report, this Government has acted, ignoring the earlier reports that were made available and ignoring the important conclusions that had been reached in 1975 to bring about a co-ordination of our law enforcement agencies. As I said, the amalgamation proposed in 1975 would have ensured greater co-ordination of enforcement in certain areas, it would have eliminated some of the duplication and waste of resources and it would have provided for a more highly trained and sophisticated federal police force. However, there are several very serious shortcomings in the Bill now before us. Firstly, there is the question of the structure of the new force. The Bill provides for the division of the new force into two separate components, with a general police services component staffed by police officers and a protective service component staffed by protective service officers. So we have a decision to amalgamate and simultaneously a decision to dismember. Instead of co-ordination, we will have duplication, confusion and fragmentation. We will have a second-class police force instead of a first-class police force to deal with the development of modern sophisticated crime. 
This division of the force into two component parts is totally inconsistent with the intention of amalgamation. The protective service officers are to be related to guard duty. Rather than an upgrading, which was the basis of the original proposition, there will be a downgrading. There is no mention in  Sir Robert  Mark's report of a two-grade police force, a first and second class police force. He makes no such recommendation. We are now confronted with a situation which the Opposition believes will weaken the effectiveness of the Commonwealth police, or the Federal police, and will result inevitably in a downgrading of the effectiveness of the police force. The protective services component of the force will develop into a stagnant second-rate force. It will result inevitably in the downgrading of the skills of the officers assigned to it. Already there are signs of a drop in the morale of those persons who have hitherto borne the responsibility of developing and maintaining an effective law enforcement agency at the national level. It stands to reason that in a period of specialisation by criminals, this Parliament should be asked to underwrite steps taken by the Government which would have the effect of dividing the force into two and putting one group of people into an area where they will operate for the sole purpose of carrying out a protective services role. 
The justification for  Sir Robert  Mark's appointment and his subsequent report to this Government, was the strengthening of the antiterrorist role of the law enforcement agencies in Australia so that we could learn from the experience of the Hilton bombing some 18 months ago. Yet the very people who are to be placed in that section, which will look after Commonwealth properties and will operate in the consulate areas, at Lucas Heights, in Commonwealth hostels, in Commonwealth buildings and even at airports, will be placed in a position where their role will be secondary and less skilled, being part of a protective force. Some honourable senators might imagine that the protective services division will be concerned with counter-terrorist activities. But this will be true only on the front line, as it were, where terrorist attacks are actually occurring. One assumes that the real counter-terrorist work will be carried out by the other component. How are we going to get coordination in that area? The experience of the man who was brought to Australia to provide a report has been in the area of anti-terrorism. In effect, this division would diminish the counterterrorist capacity of the Federal Police as a whole. These points indicate the inadequacy upon which this Bill is based. This division will create two classes of police officers and the officers will be known by different names. Their spheres of operation will differ and the protective services office will unequivocally assume an inferior status. Already that is the way that those who are currently carrying out their responsibilities view the situation. 
If the Government had chosen to consult the Commonwealth Police Officers Association it would have had a better understanding. I find it unbelievable that in the debate in the other place members ofthe Government parties berated the 
Opposition by saying that what Opposition supporters were expressing did not represent the views of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. Members of that Association have seen me on at least six occasions in the last two months. I have met with officers of the Commonwealth Police division in New South Wales and my colleagues have met with State branch representatives of the Commonwealth Police Officers Association. 
In every case, without exception, they adjured us to oppose the basic principles underlying the two-component characteristic of this legislation. Little courtesy was extended to the Association by this Government. It took it six months to get an interview with the Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr McLeay,  so as to present its point of view. Now the police officers are fighting a rearguard action to preserve the viability of the very force that they are a part of. There is no doubt that this division will weaken the morale of Federal police. What sort of a basis is this when setting out to construct a strong new federal police force with the objectives that have been laid down in the report from  Sir Robert  Mark and the intent that is inherent in this Bill? 
That is not the only division of the force that will lower morale. There is a second serious anomaly in this Bill, its industrial aspects. The conditions of employment of officers are contrary to the accepted rules governing employment of all other public servants. New features, new procedures, have been established for this new force. These features and procedures do not apply to any other police or law enforcement agency in Australia or to any public service instrumentality in Australia. These processes and procedures are not acceptable to the Association or any other public service group. The Commissioner is given exclusive and unchallengeable power to make decisions covering transfers, appointments, promotions, disciplinary action, demotions, retirements and dismissals. Fancy giving to a new Commissioner the sole right to make decisions which will affect the futures and careers of men who have given many years of their life in pursuit of their careers. Their task is a most thankless one, as we well know. As the New South Wales Police Association has said in a recent submission to the Government, it is a section of the Australian work force that is not highly regarded by most members of the Australian community but its members perform duties which cannot be described as being very pleasant. 
This legislation provides an opportunity to recognise that men who have joined the Commonwealth police have made many sacrifices and have decided to make it their career. Yet it delegates authority to one man- the Commissioner. Specifically left out of the legislation are provisions which safeguard certain rights and obligations of members of the police force to complain about any change in their status, whether it be up or down. The 1 975 legislation of the Labor Government provided for appeals to a promotions appeals board by officers who felt that they were treated unfairly. That is not included in this legislation. In this Bill no appeals structure is established. There is reference only to a possible regulation which 'may' provide for appeals. This is a principle of sufficient importance to be explicitly incorporated in the Bill. That is why we have included it in our amendment. The proposed Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal, which will be established under clause 42, is excluded expressly from consideration of matters relating to transfers, appointments, promotions, dismissals et cetera. This exclusion is contained in clause 46 (3). 
The Commonwealth Police Officers Association has expressed fears about this denial of officers' rights. Grave concern is expressed in relation to the capabilities of the Commissioner to retire, transfer or demote a member without that member's having the protection of a right of appeal against such a decision. Clause 39 provides the basis upon which the Commissioner can retrench a member. Natural justice can be denied any member under this clause, and we say that it requires a complete rewrite. The Government's proposed regulations would be used to compel early retirement. This takes up another of the issues on which we challenged the Government in legislation passed by this Senate earlier today. If this is the Government's intention, such a provision should be incorporated in this Bill for all to see. 
Similarly, the rights of police officers are under attack. Under clause 39, which gives the Commissioner power to transfer officers to a lower rank or to retire them on the grounds of overstaffing, no appeals are allowed. New principles are being introduced. A perfectly competent and dedicated officer can be dismissed summarily at the whim of the Commissioner and there is nothing that he or she can do about it. 
This Bill is open to a third serious objection. It relates to the absence of any satisfactory mechanism for dealing with complaints against the police. The second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  foreshadowed legislation to establish complaints procedures following reports by the Law Reform Commission. Internal investigations by the force are inadequate and would do nothing to gain public confidence in the new force. This public confidence is essential to its efficient and effective operation. The new chief of the proposed force,  Sir Colin  Woods, specially imported from England duty free, is in favour of internal investigations and his public utterances have hamstrung the Government. 
The 1975 Bill incorporated the complaints procedure recommended in the first report on this matter by the Law Reform Commission. In addition to an internal investigative unit, the Commission considered it vital to establish two other bodies to ensure independence and impartiality in the investigation of complaints. In particular, the Ombudsman would play an important part. There also would be a police tribunal presided over by a judge. The Commission's recommendations are the most favoured method of striking a balance in maintaining public confidence and police morale. The Bill fails also to specify clearly the responsibilities of the force. For example, it is essential there be greater coordination with the Narcotics Bureau. It is an absurd proposition to have a special section of the Commonwealth Police dealing with narcotics intelligence and then to have the Narcotics Bureau operating in the Customs area. Nothing in this Bill will bring about the essential merger of those forces, which was part of the strategy of the 1 975 legislation. 
Unlike the legislation relating to State police forces, this Bill contains no clear definition of areas of responsibility. This will lead only to confusion and disputation. In particular we should look at the areas of Customs- international airports, immigration, drugs and quarantineand the connection with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and international crime. There is a great deal about which the Opposition has misgivings and about which we find ourselves in conflict with the views expressed in  Sir Robert  Mark's report. The report shows clearly that his concept is unacceptable to the Australian people. I refer particularly to paragraph 38 on page 19 of the report in which he talks about special branch activities. The approach of  Sir Robert  Mark was adopted in South Australia by  Mr Salisbury,  who believed that he was accountable not to a Minister but to some intangible authority called the Crown. 
We believe that the Minister should be empowered to give specific directions to the Commissioner subject to the requirement that any direction be tabled in Parliament and gazetted. This would make the democratically elected Minister accountable for police actions. This is as it should be. We fought for that principle in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation. We received some recognition by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that there should be greater public accountability to the Parliament, yet such a principle is ignored in this legislation. Because of these serious objections and because of many other less serious faults in the Bill we believe that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted. 
We have had a multifarious law enforcement operation in this country for many years. We have had not only six State police forces but also the Australian Capital Territory Police, the Commonwealth Police, ASIO, intelligence agencies in various government departments and, of course, the Federal Narcotics Bureau. If these organisations had been brought under one umbrella, which would have been done if the 1975 legislation had been adopted by the Parliament and not sat on for four years by this Government, perhaps the sort of problems that we have had with Harvey Bates and the crime that has flowed from the inability properly to control drug abuse in this country could have been avoided. 
Nothing in this legislation encourages us to believe that this Government is really setting about creating the sort of police force that would carry out its responsibility in a modern industrial society. The Government imported a  Colonel Blimp  to give us a report on what we should do with our police forces, which he did in six weeks, and then the Government did not carry out the recommendations. But it did invite one of his mates from the British old boys club that operates at Scotland Yard in London-  Sir Colin  Woods- to come in and operate the service. There is reason for many people in Australia to believe that the Government is not fair-dinkum about law enforcement at a national level. The Government is doing the very opposite to what it should be setting out to do. It should be creating a more highly skilled, competent and efficient police agency. It will not do that by splitting the police force into two and dividing the role of police officers into two separate component parts. That principle is repugnant to any police organisation in this country. It has no precedent anywhere in the Western world. 
In a period when terrorism and crime are on the up this Government is taking steps to downgrade our federal police. To that extent we seek support for the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I indicate to the 
Senate that the Opposition has some 50 or 60 amendments for the Committee stage of the Bill. The Opposition hopes that the Senate will look at this legislation clearly and properly in its review role and not just blindly pass in the dying hours of this session important legislation that ought to have received a lot more consideration by the House of Representatives. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on the 7 June 1979: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a voluminous report on the incidence of lead in the air and its harmful effects on children in Sydney arising from the growing use of petroleum products. 
Has the Government noted the remark of Professor Lloyd Smythe that the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council has refused an application for funds to carry on his important research work and his statement that the Government does not seem to be much concerned about the adverse effects of energy. 
Will the Government reconsider its position in view of its stated purpose to take steps to improve public health and prevent illness. 
-I present the following petition from 44 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister Representing the Prime Minister: In what capacity did the National Director of the Liberal Party of Australia national secretariat,  Mr Tony  Eggleton, accompany the Prime Minister to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Lusaka? Are we to believe that  Mr Eggleton  travelled as an official of the Commonwealth Secretariat, as the Liberal Party secretariat maintains, or are we to believe what the Prime Minister's Press office claims, namely, that he went as a consultant to the Government? I ask the Minister also: Who paid for  Mr Eggleton  's trip? Is it true that his attendance at the conference cost approximately $10,000? Further, can the Minister say whether it is the policy of this Government that the Prime Minister is entitled to take Liberal Party functionaries on international visits at the taxpayers 'expense? 
The Opposition has indicated its concern with the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. The Bill the Senate is now considering and two subsequent Bills are ancillary to the ASIO Bill, which we passed during the last sessional period. We indicated on that occasion that we were expressing not only our concern at the dragnet provisions of that legislation but also the public's concern about the way in which the Government was proceeding to introduce legislation to formalise some of the illegal activities that were obviously taking place and had taken place in the preceding 30 years. The three Bills are somewhat ancillary to the effectiveness of the ASIO Bill. They provide the means by which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and its officers, the DirectorGeneral particularly, will be able to put into effect their interpretations and the Government's interpretations about what is considered to be a subversive matter or a matter that requires some surveillance, some investigation or some collection of information. 
The three Bills set out to provide features which would be regarded by most Australians as somewhat repugnant insofar as we are now to delegate to the Director-General, and down the line to some of his officers, the power to listen in on telephone conversations and to intercept mail and open it. Today we have had an example of one of our senators having his mail, a direct communication from a government department, opened by the Commonwealth Police. That is already evidence of the way in which some of those in the areas of surveillance in our country interpret their powers. It is that sort of behaviour that  Mr Justice  Hope referred to in his voluminous report which was presented to the Parliament last year. Of course, not only will telephones be subject to certain procedures which will deny rights to citizens, but also we will have our mail opened if we fall within a category or classification determined by those who consider they have the right to take that step. In addition we have this new concept for which the Bills provide, that is, the right to break and enter not only a home but also a place of work or any premises. The Director-General or his officers, in a delegated way, will have the right to take that extraordinary step, which hitherto has not been available to them and which is provided for in this legislation. I am not so sure that any justification has been presented by the Government for those extraordinary steps of breaking and entering and infringing the rights of citizens. 
We made the point very clearly in the debate on the ASIO legislation that we have no basic objections to the security of our country being protected by an organisation set up for that purpose. But as has been shown in the investigation carried out by  Mr Justice  Hope, there have been flagrant breaches of that process in the collection of information. In the way in which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has operated over the years there have been admitted illegalities and misdemeanours on the part of officers. The facts are that if we look at this matter in retrospect we find that there has been no evidence that the collection of information, the phone tapping or the interception of mail has in any circumstance disclosed that a person has been acting against the security of the country. 
If we examine the experiences of other countries- I think we have had some examples of this in recent times- we will see grave breaches of human rights, of the rights of citizens and of the rights of proper procedures and practices in the United States of America by the Central Intelligence Agency. We have seen grave breaches, penetration and illegal acts by that organisation in countries of Latin America. These are facts which have been presented before the United States Senate and which are available on record if Government senators are prepared to carry out a survey to see the way in which breaches have taken place. We can look to the breaches which have taken place in a more recent period in West Germany and in intelligence organisations in the United Kingdom. In South Africa one breach has happened since this legislation came up for debate in the Australian Parliament. We have seen the way in which the intelligence organisations in South Africa have been involved not only in grave breaches of public propriety but also in a whole series of illegal activities which have brought down prominent members of the South African Parliament, including the  President.  We have seen it happen also in France and, of course, we have seen it recently in the disturbances in Iran, where intelligence agencies not only have breached human rights but in fact also have been involved in torture, murder and violence concerning the rights of citizens to engage in what have now been established clearly by the new regime to be legitimate political activities. 
What is it that the Australian Labor Party is seeking to do? I suppose we are thankful for small mercies because all we have got out of this Government are small mercies. We are asking the Government to consider the way in which the Opposition has approached this matter and to concede the legitimacy of some of the views which we have expressed in the desire to reach a bipartisan position on the security of our country. What have we asked? We have asked that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation be subjected to an independent financial audit and to a periodic judicial review to ensure that it complies with its charter. Is that something which the Government can dismiss and say is not a reasonable and responsible request made by the alternative government of this country? 
We want to ensure that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, particularly in its activities under the pieces of legislation to which we are being asked to give our assent, operates within the law, that it does not unjustifiably infringe civil liberties and that it is responsible to the Parliament. I submit that is not a revolutionary concept. That is what the United States Senate has insisted upon in its deliberations on the operations of its intelligence organisation. We ask that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation shall be responsible to the Parliament, not just to the House of Representatives but also to the Senate. We ask that the AttorneyGeneral shall be required to make an annual report to Parliament, particularly in relation to infringements on human rights and civil liberties which are inherent in these three pieces of legislation. We ask that the Attorney-General should report on the working of ASIO, on any infringement of its governing regulations and actions taken in regard to such an infringement, on the use, for national security purposes or otherwise, of any electronic surveillance devices and on the operation of legislation in relation thereto. 
We are not even told about the massive use now of electronic surveillance equipment by security intelligence organisations. I am referring not only to ASIO but also to the other intelligence bodies. The Parliament has not been shown what electronic devices are available. The Parliament has not been taken into the confidence of the Government on what is operating within our community. I do not know enough about these matters, but we all know that there are electronic devices now which are substantially different from those in existence when ASIO was established in 1949. We all know that now devices are available which touch upon and infringe civil liberties. But nobody from the Government side has seen fit to say: 'This is the sort of bugging device which is available now'. 
For example, are we told about the sort of bugging device which brought about the resignation of the United States representative to the United Nations,  Mr Andrew  Young? In that case, certain intelligence organisations were able to bug private conversations which were regarded by that person to relate to matters within his area of responsibility. I make no judgment on whether  Mr Young  did the right or wrong thing. But the fact is that intelligence organisations used certain processes, procedures and devices to establish what was being said in conversations in which a representative of a major power was engaged, when he felt he was acting within his area of responsibility. That information was then used in such a way as to undermine his political position. 
We are kept in the dark. Not only the Parliament but also the Australian community is kept in the dark. So we have a continuation of the very processes to which  Mr Justice  Hope referred in his report. Yet we are being asked to sign a blank cheque, as it were, and to give our approval to these three Bills which, in a sense, are the processes and procedures by which the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation will operate. We are given no assurances about the collection of information on private individuals. We have seen what happened in South Australia in respect of the activities of its Special Branch. We are aware of what happened in respect of  Mr Justice  White's report and of how the names of a great number of ordinary citizens were put on lists which could be described only as lists of the names of people engaged in legitimate political activities. The privacy committee in New South Wales similarly has been concerning itself with the Special Branch files which have been collected over the years. 
So is it wrong for us to claim that those sorts of Special Branch files ought to be subject to some form of parliamentary scrutiny and control? I am not suggesting that we want to know whether John Smith and Bill Brown did this and did that, but we ought to know that after five years in which there has been no substantial evidence of John Smith or Bill Brown having been involved in any activities prejudicial to the security of this country those files have been destroyed. That is the sort of assurance which this Government is not prepared to give us. It is not prepared to give that sort of assurance to the Parliament or to the Australian people. 
The Government falls back on the claim that over the years governments have not provided information about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, ignoring the fact that in 1973  Senator Murphy  disclosed in this place that in the course of the previous 10 years on an annual average about 100 or so people had their telephones tapped. In fact, if we look at the record we see that at that time he gave the precise figures for the phone tapping which was authorised for security purposes under the then existing legislation. Let us take the figure of 100 legitimate phone taps annually over a 10-year period, which would mean that over a 10-year period something like 1,000 telephones would be tapped. What has been the result of that phone tapping? Surely we are entitled to say, firstly, that that activity was undertaken allegedly in the interests of the security of this country. What has that phone tapping led to in terms of obtaining information which has enabled an assessment or judgment to be made in respect of the individuals involved in those phone taps? Did the phone tapping lead to political conclusions being drawn? Did it lead to conclusions being reached concerning narcotics? Did it lead to people being arrested and charged with drug offences or in fact did it simply enable certain groups within the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to reach certain conclusions in respect of those people whose telephones had been tapped, legitimately in accordance with the legislation at the time, with the approval of the Attorney-General of the day? 
Surely we are entitled to knew whether the sorts of judgments which were made as a result of those 1,000 telephone tappings were legitimate or otherwise. Surely we, and not just one man, the Director-General of the Organisation or, if he sees fit, the Attorney-General of the day, are entitled to know that. Surely we are entitled to know whether a process which puts so many citizens under surveillance was justified. Of course, we do not know because we have never been told how many letters have been opened or how many entries of premises made, allegedly in the interests of the security of our country. Those phone tappings were all authorised for security purposes under the then existing legislation. Now we are being asked to formalise the matter and extend the basis upon which such phone tapping, mail interception and breaking and entering will take place. 
When these questions have been asked in the past all sorts of dire consequences have been suggested and all sorts of terrible forebodings heard about what this would mean in respect of security. Some on the conservative side have suggested that, if we dared to exercise any parliamentary scrutiny of these matters, the American Government would fold up its relationship with us and no longer have anything to do with this country's defence or the defence of its own interests. Yet it is the very country that has established the most direct control, influence and auditing over the activities of its own intelligence organisation. The sky did not fall in when  Senator Murphy  made the revelations. The end of the world did not come in respect of our relations with the United States, and there is absolutely no evidence, except in the thinking processes of this Government or of the intelligence organisations, that these sorts of consequences would flow from any attempt by the elected representatives of the Australian people to exercise some surveillance, some control and some influence over what we on this side of the House believe ought to be the correct and responsible role of the legislator. 
We now have to consider not only those sorts of processes but also listening devices. If we are to believe what we read about listening devices, it is possible- I am not saying that it happensthat conversations in our homes, in our offices, in the Parliament, in the Cabinet room, in a trade union meeting place, in a student organisation and in political parties could be overheard. Listening devices are such that now there is absolutely no control possible for the exercise of any reasonable protection over the rights of people. We are being asked virtually to sign a blank cheque and to give an open go, as it were, to the Director-General, and in certain circumstances to the Minister. Is it wrong for us to ask for a periodic judicial audit. The investigation by  Mr Justice  Hope, although we do not agree with all of his recommendations, was of itself an indication of the value of this kind of independent judicial scrutiny of and report on a particular security agency. What happened in South Australia with  Mr Justice  White and the cleaning up of that extraordinary mess that was the South Australian Special Branch indicated how important it was for the government of the day to know what was taking place in that State. 
It may not be to the liking or to the taste of the existing Director-General to contemplate having a brother judge- that is, the Parliament- double checking him and looking over his shoulder if we were really to exercise our rights and obligations and, I believe, our responsibilities. As we said when we were discussing the ASIO Bill, it is not a question of his personal integrity being under challenge. Rather it is a matter of guaranteeing the integrity of the system itself. In this proposed Act, we may be designing a system which will outlive us all, and of course that is our concern about this legislation. 
When we talked about this matter in the earlier debate,  Senator Puplick  stated that clause 8 of the present Bill confers upon the Minister of the day general powers to give directions to the Director-General. However, he pointed out that it limits his powers to give directions in a number of specific ways, some of which we believe to be unacceptable. We believe that the approach to the exercise of ministerial control and responsibility should be one of absolutely maximising, so far as possible, the power of the Minister visavis the Director-General because only the Minister is politically accountable to the Parliament and to the people in any sense at all. I think that that is a principle from which we cannot shift. We believe that any restrictions on the power vested in the Minister should be denned as narrowly as possible so that the protection is there. The only really legitimate or acceptable limitation we see as appropriate on the power of the Minister in this respect- and in the Committee stage we will be attempting to amend the Bill accordingly- would be to limit his power of access to the detailed content. We are not interested in the detail; we are not interested in knowing what is in the report or what is the result of this legislation in respect of what it does to Citizen A, B or C. We are not concerned with that in the sense of the individual collection of information or a security assessment on a particular individual. But we are concerned that it should not in any way abridge the rights of the individual if he is involved in legitimate political activity. Of course, if he is involved in activity which affects the security of the country or in an activity which is in some way associated with the development of large scale drug trafficking in this country- and of course this legislation to which we are asked to give our assent gives extra powers to the Comptroller-General of Customsthat would be a matter for the judgment of the Minister concerned. 
On the one hand, the Government says that it wants a bipartisan approach. On the other hand, the Government wants to maintain the illusion and perpetuate the process upon which the Australian Security Intelligence Organization has always operated. Through these Bills, the Government wants to legitimise what in the past have been illegitimate activities and to extend the legislation to give the right of break and entry to any officer so designated by the DirectorGeneral. We have our misgivings and we have expressed them. Whilst we are thankful that to some extent the Government has given some credence to our point of view, we still believe that the Government has a long way to go. We expect it to give very serious consideration to the amendments that we will be moving in the Committee stage. 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. I ask the Minister to answer my question. Is he asserting that as a result of the changes that the Government - 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer explain to the Senate how, with wages estimated to increase by 9 per cent and inflation to increase by 10 per cent, the basic tax scales to remain unchanged for the whole of the financial year, the surcharge of 2.57 per cent to be removed for little more than half a year and the crude oil levy to continue, based on increasing oil prices, total personal and other taxation will be less in 1 979-80 than in the previous year, as asserted by the Minister? 
I present the following petition from 140 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
That reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
On behalf of  Senator Keeffe,  I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that the construction of a uranium enrichment plant in North Queensland and the mining of uranium on the Herveys Range area should not be proceeded with on the following grounds: 
1 ) No safe method has yet been devised for the disposal of nuclear waste. 
) The mining of uranium ore exposes workers to considerable danger from radon gases. 
) The danger of poisoning chemicals seeping into surface and underground water supplies as a result of uranium ore mining and refining of uranium ore could pose serious health hazards for persons living in the Townsville region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take all possible steps to abandon or postpone indefinitely the mining of uranium in the Herveys Range area, and the construction of an enrichment plant in the Townsville region. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on the 10th December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which declares that, Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration. . . . ' (Article 2) that 'Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives . . . The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or equivalent free voting procedures. '(Article 21 (1) and (3).) 
Elections for Senators meet all requirements except one. Senators are elected periodically, by secret ballot, with universal franchises, and the quota-preferential method of proportional representation ensures that the vote values within states are equal as nearly as can be. 
However the provision of the Electoral Act that compels voters to show preferences for all candidates on the ballot paper interferes with the free expression of the will of the voters, and is unjust. 
Australia, as a Member State of the United Nations, is pledged to achieve observance of Human Rights and Freedoms. 
We, the undersigned citizens of Australia, therefore humbly pray that the Senate will fulfil the pledge of a 
Member State of the United Nations and take steps to remove the compulsion from the Electoral Act in order to allow freedom of expression for everyone who has the right to vote for Senators. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Treasurer. I ask whether it is a fact that the Lusaka declaration on racism and racial prejudice, which the Australian delegation helped to draft, contained these words: 
Wc rc-affirm that it is the duty of all the peoples of the Commonwealth to work together for the total eradication of the infamous policy of apartheid which is internationally recognised as a crime against the conscience and dignity of mankind and the very existence of which is an affront to humanity. 
Consistent with this statement, will the Federal Government therefore decline to pay export market development grants to those Australian manufacturers whom it is suggested will participate in the trade fair to be held in Johannesburg next October? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and closely follows the previous question. I refer to the fact that various statements about shortages of distillate have been made by the Government which have created not only some confusion but also some concern. Has the Government given any consideration to the need to increase the output of distillate from Australian refineries? If there is any reason why an increase in output has not taken place in Australia, why has the Government not sought to stimulate an increase in production in Australian refineries? 
The debate, as is usual at this time of the year, centres on the Budget and its strategy. What we are dealing with is the fourth Budget of the Fraser Government, plus two mini-Budgets which it has seen fit to introduce, with the aim of fulfilling the statements, promises and objectives that it set itself when it brought down the Whitlam Government in 1975. A Budget is not the be-all and end-all of an economic system, whatever its classical description might be. It is only one of the means by which a climate is created, or conditions are influenced, in order to realise particular economic objectives. I think we have tended to see Budgets as being the most important economic instrument, in some respects the only economic instrument, to enable us to have a healthy economy. I think, particularly after listening to what  Senator Sim  and other speakers have said on a variety of economic issues over the last few years, we should appreciate that there are other factors besides Budgets which operate to determine the fate of policies, whether they be pursued in the public or private sectors. I am one of those who subscribe to the view that a Budget has only a limited influence on the course of action that is to be taken. It certainly sets itself the objective of creating an economic climate for growth and development, for business confidence, for consumer spending, for well-being, for increased living standards, and generally for raising some degree of expectation within the community. That is what characterises the fine and flowery words that are so often part of Budget speeches by the Treasurers of the day. 
I think we are entitled to analyse whether those Budget speeches realised their objectives and expectations, or whether they are just rhetoric, words which sound good but which are meaningless in terms of having a healthy economy. One only needs to go back to the first Budget presented by the Fraser Government on 17 August 1976. Before dealing with specific comments in relation to this particular Budget I should like to make some brief quotations, as well as commenting on what  Senator Sim  had to say.  Mr Lynch  said: 
The private sector is growing again and confidence is gradually returning. 
This Budget will aid that recovery and rebuild confidence further. 
It will do so in part by putting an end to permissiveness in government spending and turning back the recent trend towards bigger and bigger government. 
At the same time it will build further on the social reforms of 20 May so as to assist the most needy in our community. 
The reference to 20 May was to the first miniBudget. The same sort of statements were repeated in the next Budget by  Mr Lynch  and in the succeeding Budgets by the present Treasurer,  Mr Howard.  If we turn to further statements of the first Treasurer of the Fraser Administration, we find the comment that the economic recovery would take a full three-year term. That full threeyear term has come and gone, and the statements by  Mr Howard  do not give us much confidence that the Government is in command of the Australian economy. 
What  Senator Sim  had to say to some extent underlines this, that it is one of the fallacies, one of the falsehoods, one of the misnomers that governments in fact are the principal factor in economic affairs. The real decisions that have to be made are made in the board rooms of the major companies. They are the ones who decide whether profitability is such as to encourage investment decisions which will create new industries or new job opportunities, or whether in fact there will be investments in this State or that State. Here I refer more particularly perhaps to overseas capital, where we have the rather odious spectacle of Premiers hawking their States around the world trying to get foreign investment in the belief- in my opinion the false belief- that this will lead to investment decisions which will create a more healthy economy, ignoring the fact that there are other important decision-making processes which will even cut across those particular investment decisions. It is all in the area of trying to build within the Australian community a feeling that they must spend, a feeling that they must have confidence, a feeling in the business sector that it must expand, grow and develop, find new markets, and have confidence in the future. That was the principal strategy of the first Fraser Budget. It was to be a consumer-led recovery. But at the end of that Budget year that consumer-led recovery had not taken place. 
There were sufficient inducements, as we thought, in the second Budget of the Fraser Administration. It was to be an investment-led recovery and special steps were to be taken to encourage the private sector of our economy to invest in new machines, to increase productivity, and generally to create a great concept. The last two Budgets have emphasised the need for diversification, to which  Senator Sim  referred, and the need for an export-led recovery. I would say that that strategy or that objective will fail as surely as the investment-led recovery and the consumer-led recovery failed in the years 1976-77 and 1977-78. 1 submit that it has failed and that it is failing, that consumer spending is not increasing, and that business confidence is not taking place of the order that will create the sort of job opportunities that will employ an increasing number of people who are now out of work and the increasing number of younger people coming on to the labour market. This is so because of numerous factors. One of those factors which  Senator Sim  touched upon- a factor which I suggest would be a disastrous course of action for Australia to follow- would be to follow in the trend of the international influences, to put ourselves in a position where we knowingly became part of the redistribution of capital, resources and labour that is taking place on the world scene. That, of course, is what we have seen in the last decade or so- a massive redistribution of capital and a massive redistribution of resources and labour. It has been suggested that if puny little Australia with a population of about 14 million were somehow to change its protection policies and open its doors and adopt the principles of free trade all the other things would fall into place and in fact we would live in a healthy, regenerative and developing Australian economy. Those simplistic processes, I submit, do not require a great deal of imaginative thinking because they have no particular relevance to the sorts of problems that beset our country; they are more fundamental than that. 
I think we have a crisis of confidence in our country. Our business sector lacks confidence in itself, in the Government and in the economic system. Our consumers- who, of course, are citizens- lack confidence in the Government, in the private sector and in the economic system. 1 do not suggest in any way that they understand the ramifications of modern economics, but when there are downturns in the economy, whenever there is unemployment, uncertainty and inflation, historical statistics show that savings bank deposits continue to rise year by year. That is exactly what is happening. It is not happening in a conscious way. It is not happening because people think that the system has certain deficiencies and is not working and operating to their satisfaction and therefore they will do this and that. Instinctively they fear for the future. These people are ordinary citizens and therefore they save. That is a natural, understandable and proper attitude to adopt. Similarly, in our private sector which, after all, employs a big proportion of our work force there is a lack of confidence in the ability of governments and itself to make the sorts of decisions and to create the sort of atmosphere and climate that would enable it to be convinced that its investment decisions would be suitable to the funds to be so invested. 
The latest Budget to emanate from this Government continues the basic direction of the Government's economic policies. The essence of this economic strategy, I submit, is a sustained attack upon the living standards and quality of life of the great mass of the ordinary Australian people. We know that living standards have declined over the last four years, that wages have slipped behind the rate of inflation and, in fact, that unemployment has continued to increase even though there has been some measurable improvement in the rate of inflation. The people who suffer most from the policies of the Fraser 
Government are the poor, the unemployed and the pensioner- those in the community who are the weakest, the least able to defend themselves and the first in line to be affected by government policies and by those who refuse to invest and refuse to have confidence in their own capacities to develop the economy. This Government's policy has been to perpetuate that situation, and can therefore be described only as a cowardly attack on those least able to defend themselves. 
Who are the beneficiaries of the Government's policies? We have to read only the financial columns of our newspapers to see that it is the major corporations that are benefiting by this Government's policies, the corporate rich, the multinational mining companies, the giant oil companies, the companies that have so diversified their activities in the Australian economy, the companies that have gone off-shore in order to develop a higher rate of profitability overseas. This Budget therefore to the limited extent that it can influence economic growth and issues in this country has to be described not only as it has been described by others as a contractionary Budget but also as a Budget for the privileged and the wealthy. This of course would be no surprise to anyone who looks at it objectively. We know who the Fraser Government listens to. The ear of the Government is always tuned to the arguments of capital; capital is the predominant force. It has its influence in the media, in the conservative economic sections of our country, in the Treasury, in universities and in the traditions. Of course, it is able to put forward its view almost without contrary argument. 
The argument of capital and its representatives has been the same during the period of the Labor Government, during the period of the first Fraser Budget and in the subsequent years that this Government has been in office. They have said: 'Give us concessions or we will not invest. Profits must grow, wages must fall; reduce inflation. It must be the wage earner, not the profiteers who must pay'. That underlying philosophy has been taken up by the Government in the false belief, in the benign belief perhaps, that by listening to that view it will encourage the private sector to take the necessary steps to rationalise itself, to increase its productivity, to modernise its production processes, to develop new industries and to diversify; yet that has not happened. There has been no satisfactory response from the private sector. 
This Government in its latest Budget has resorted to trickery and subterfuge in its endeavours to try to fool the Australian people and perhaps even the business sector. The Treasurer announced in the Budget the abolition of the 2.5 per cent income tax surcharge which the Government levied on incomes last December. He had said that it was to be taken off in the early part of this year. He went on to talk about an increase in take home pay that would result. We all know that within a day this shoddy gesture had been torn apart. Even the Treasurer's own figures revealed that income tax collections in 1 979-80 were expected to increase by 1 8.2 per cent, twice the expected inflation rate. Let us look at page 56 of the Government's Budget Paper No. 1. The section headed 'Expenditures' reads: 
With the rises in consumer prices that are already in the system and the large increase in personal income tax collections, together with the level-pegging assumed in respect of farm incomes, aggregate real household disposable income could even be a little lower in 1979-80 as a whole than in 1978-79. 
The Government in its own documents admits that taxes will be higher; it admits that disposable household income will be less in the next financial year than in the past. I agree that  Mr Risstrom  did a tremendous job to debunk the theory that  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and  Mr Howard  were attempting to put over that this Budget in fact would be beneficial to the Australian people. In their own document they admit that taxes will be higher and that consumer spending, ipso facto, will be reduced in the coming financial year. That is hypocrisy, indeed, coming from a government which has constantly attacked the Australian Labor Party and claimed that it is a high-tax party; it is hypocrisy coming from a government which came to office on a promise to cut taxes. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a document which I had prepared by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. It is an official document from the Library. Before seeking leave to do so, I wish to make one or two brief references to it. For example, the document shows that total Commonwealth taxation revenue in 1965-66 was $4,209m and that at that stage payasyouearn taxation represented 27.6 per cent of total Commonwealth Government taxation revenue. That went up steadily by one or two per cent every year, reaching 43. 1 per cent in the second Budget of the Whitlam Government. Where does that percentage stand today? It is estimated at 44. 1 per cent in the 1 979-80 Budget. Where did it stand in the past three Budgets of the 
Fraser Government? In 1977-78 PA YE tax represented 45.2 per cent of total Commonwealth taxation revenue. In 1978-79 it represented 44.6 per cent and in 1979-80 it is estimated that it will represent 44. 1 per cent.  Mr 
Acting Deputy President, I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197909116_48_4.jpg"></graphic>

But none of us should be surprised at that because we have come to learn that people in the lower strata of wage earners are the people most severely affected by the Fraser Government's devious taxation policies. Time and time again in the Senate and in the House of Representatives we have heard that this Government has reduced the rate of taxation. The figures which I have cited indicate that an even higher rate of tax is being paid when one considers that the level of unemployment has almost doubled in the period in which the Fraser Government has been in office. When one takes that into account it shows that a higher proportion of tax is being paid by the average wage earner. As we know, when we look at the tax scales we see that the great bulk of PA YE taxation in this country comes from people in the lower and middle income groups. The devious taxation policies of the Government do nothing more than to continue the process of the systematic redistribution of income away from the poorer sections of our community and into the pockets of the wealthy. 
Let us consider another set of figures to prove the point I am trying to make. In the four 
Budgets of the Fraser administration PAYE taxation has increased by 70 per cent. Customs duty has increased by 70 per cent and, as my colleague  Senator Colston  has indicated, revenue collected in excise as a result of the increases in petrol prices has increased seven times since the last Labor Budget of 1975-76. What we are saying is that the Government for four years has undertaken a systematic policy of reducing living standards. By increasing the level of unemployment the Government has simultaneously tried to weaken the ability of working people to resist. This Government has successfully achieved creating the highest rate of unemployment since the Great Depression. 
At the same time as its policies threw hundreds of thousands of workers into dole queues, members of the Fraser Government began a campaign, unfortunately aided and abetted by other people in the community who ought to have known better, to denigrate, demoralise and, in many cases, destroy unemployed people in Australia. In a most ruthless and vicious campaign the Government and the mass media combined to brand unemployed people as dole bludgers, as if in the space of a year or two 400,000 workers had decided that subsistence on $5 1 a week was preferable to working. The dole bludger campaign has been the most shameful and callous propaganda exercise this country has ever witnessed. It is to our everlasting shame that we have not laid that campaign to dust. It has created tremendous problems in the minds of people who genuinely seek work. 
The young unemployed have been bombarded with the idea that their jobless state is their own fault, the result of some God-given and irreversible incapacity. It is no wonder that they increasingly turn to alcohol and other drugs, to crime and even to suicide. Yet instead of these people being shown compassion, they are stigmatised and criticised and, in many cases, even driven from the homes of their families because they are unable to find work. This is so, despite the fact that for every job available, about 27 people are looking for work. Having thrown people out of work, the system and the Government have systematically denied many of the unemployed people their right to receive the unemployment benefit. Of course, it is this Government which has stiffened up the work test. This has become a game which the Government plays, the aim of which is to deprive the jobless of their means of subsistence. We all know the degree to which many young people have been affected by the work test changes. 
The Fraser Government has broadened its attack on the weak throughout the community. As an example, let us look at what has happened to allocations for Aboriginal programs. Since 1975-76, spending on Aboriginal programs has declined by 30.7 per cent in real terms. The spending ability of pensioners has declined substantially due to a failure to index pensions. Whilst it is true that in this Budget the Government responded to the campaign of pensioners for restoration of one of the benefits introduced by a Labor government, nevertheless pensioners' living standards have been affected considerably by that year's delay in the indexation of pensions. Family allowances, which benefit the poor most, are declining in real terms without adequate compensation being made for inflation. In 1979-80 government housing outlays will be less than one-third of 1974-75 levels. Of course, government assistance to the sick continues to decline. We are all aware of the confusion and the concern of the Australian people, and their disgust with this Government, as a result of the many changes which have been wrought to destroy the universality of Medibank. 
The Fraser Government is not content with the social misery it has already caused. The latest 
Budget continues the contractionary policies. One professor, I think it was Professor John Nevile, described it as 'the most contractionary Budget of the last 30 years'. In the name of fiscal responsibility the domestic deficit has been slashed from $2,220m to $875m in the 1979-80 Budget. There is no chance that government spending will alleviate the unemployment situation. Let us consider the Government's Budget documents. I refer honourable senators to Budget Paper No. 10, headed 'National Accounting- Estimates of Receipts and Outlays of Commonwealth Government Authorities'. A lot of rather obscure journals, containing all sorts of crackpot accounting theories about how the country can be got back on its feet, are now being distributed and it is interesting to see the emphasis placed on deficits. But it is interesting also to note that the total of the deficits for three years under a Fraser government is $3,000m higher than the total of the deficits for three years under the Whitlam government. The three Whitlam Government deficits came to $6, 445m. I am referring to page 6, table 1, of the current documents. In a similar three-year period the deficits of the Fraser Administration came to $9,5 5 1 m. 
Under the guise of fighting inflation first the Government has deliberately set about cutting back on public sector spending in the belief that the private sector will take up the challenge. Yet is has not done so. There is no evidence that it has done so. In fact, we all know that in excess of 250,000 jobs have disappeared in Australia over the last two years, principally because of the decline in the private sector of the Australian economy. Instead of providing some selective stimulation in the public sector to take up the slack, the Government has set out to reduce the deficit and to follow the advice of the monetarists. The Treasurer himself has admitted to being an adherent to such policies. Under this guise of fighting inflation first the Government has to be seen as deliberately multiplying the number of unemployed. The Government is determined to reduce inflation by reducing real wages, but we have seen that this does not work. The alternative- limiting the profits of corporations or having an excess profits tax or a resource tax- is abhorrent to this businessman's government. But cutting back on the powers and funding of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission, unrestrained profitmaking becomes the order of the day. If we talk to businessmen who have some social attitudes they will tell us how distrubed they are about the increases in the cost of raw materials which are now a feature of our manufacturing industry. 
 Do greater profits mean more jobs? Clearly the answer is no. We are not at the head of the queue for higher profits, but we are in a fairly prominent place in the queue and we can see from what we are witnessing in the United States of America, in West Germany and in Japancountries where profit levels are at an all time high- that that does not solve the problems of inflation or create jobs. It is more likely that increased profits will be used to buy more capital equipment, which puts more people out of work. The investment allowance which this Government placed in its 1977-78 Budget actually encourages this type of investment decision. The Treasury's conservative estimate is that unemployment will rise by one per cent in 1979-80. This is indeed conservative. No recovery will take place without a sustained increase in consumer spending, and that will not take place. Even the apologists of the Treasury- those who wrote the Budget documents- agree that real household disposable income could be a little lower in 1979-80 as a whole than in 1978-79. So both the Government and the Treasury expect real wages to fall. What they say in the Budget documents is that real disposable income will fall by a greater amount because of the Government 's taxation policies. 
The Government's final hope is that consumers will save less and spend more of their diminishing incomes, but that has not been the pattern. That is not what has been happening. There is no reason to believe that suddenly, out of the blue, when confidence in this Government is at an all time low, consumers will take their money out of the bank and spend it. The main influences on the savings ratio are unemployment and inflation. The uncertainty associated with high unemployment discourages savings. Inflation in 1 979-80 is predicted to be 1 0 per cent and could easily be higher. This will encourage even more savings. Certainly there will be no consumer-led recovery and the dismal prospect is for greater unemployment- unemployment of this Government's own doing. 
Let us look at the redistribution of income that is taking place. This Government's past policy has been one of cutting real wages, boosting profits and making sure that any taxes are as regressive as possible. The current Budget carries on that policy with unremitting ferocity. After cutting real wages by 2.5 per cent last year the Government says that it will cut them by a further one per cent this year. In fact in the national wage case the Government put submissions before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for no real increase in wages. In view of the increase of 40 per cent in the cost of inputs to manufacturing in the March quarter of this year and the likelihood of further oil price rises, the cut in living standards is likely to be even greater than that for last year. The greatest redistribution of income is from the unemployed. The Budget Papers predict a 6.3 per cent rise in the number of unemployment benefit recipients in the 1979-80 period. This is what a contractionary policy means. This unemployment is being created deliberately to force workers to accept cuts in living standards. To the credit of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress which is taking place at the moment, the working people of this country and their representatives are determined to resist such a cut in living standards. 
Let it be made clear that the cuts that this Government has in mind are deliberate and brutal. It is because of the recognition of this that the decisions of the ACTU Congress have been so strong and deliberate. Of course, I am not raising the question of the beef and oil price rises which are in the pipeline. By the Treasury's own admission inflation will be 3 per cent higher because of these factors. Changes in health care which have disadvantaged thousands of people will also increase inflation- all to the benefit of a profession which now accounts for 47 per cent of all income earners who earn over $50,000 per annum. At the same time those who must go to arbitration will see their incomes lag behind the consumer price index due to half-yearly indexation. Thus next year will see inflation up, unemployment up and real wages down. 
Let us turn to the Government's policies on profits. This Government has sought to hold down wages as much as possible and to let prices rise. It is obvious that the aim of this has been to boost company profits. In 1978-79 the gross operating surplus rose by 3.6 per cent. As the Treasury papers admit, this is probably a gross underestimate. What effect is this boost to company profits having? It has led to record investment in plant and equipment- the so-called investment-led recovery. What is really happening is that thanks to the Budget's investment allowance people are being replaced by machines. To top it all off a lot of this new machinery is coming from overseas, a fact that even this Government is proud of. To ensure that nothing stops companies making excessive profits the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal have been emasculated. The allotment for salaries in real terms has been cut by 14 per cent for the PJT and by 3.4 per cent for the Trade Practices Commission. Thus the Government has removed even the slightest impediment to its policies of boosting profits at the expense of living standards. 
To look at only wages and profits gives only half the story, The whole picture is given by the vicious changes to the tax system and the massive handouts to business. If we could be sure that businesses would respond to these handouts the Government could perhaps be justified, but as the figures indicate and as the economy shows the private sector is not responding. Receipts from income tax on individuals will increase in this Budget by 18 per cent, and this is a massive rise. Net PA YE collections, as I have indicated in the table, now account for 44. 1 per cent of total taxation revenue. Thus the average wage earner thanks to the retention of the surcharge for most of the year, the scrapping of indexation and inequitable tax scales, is still subsidising the rich. As usual, the proportion of revenues coming from companies declined to an all-time low. But income tax is only part of this dismal story. On average, indirect taxes rose 23 per cent. Indirect taxes, as we all know, hit hardest those who are on the lowest incomes. The largest increase of all, 67 per cent, was in the crude oil levy. As is well known, lower income people need, and use, their cars more than do many other groups. So this measure, which is really a sales tax, will hit them particularly hard. 
On the other hand, Esso-BHP in 1 980-8 1 may gain $400m which is a clear and unambiguous rip-ofT of the Australian worker. This massive tax slug will raise gross receipts by 15.4 per cent, whereas outlays will rise by only 9 per cent. The Government now has a tax collector at every petrol pump- the capitalists' modern-day answer to Robin Hood. Millionaire Malcolm Fraser rides around in his VIP 707 aircraft, taking from the poor and giving to the rich. To meet the convenience of the Senate, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
One myth which we constantly hear repeated by this Government- by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by Government Ministers in this place- is that Australian society is egalitarian. In fact, that myth appears in the preamble of the policy statement of the Liberal Party of Australia and it is part of their theory. But if we examine the practice, we find that that claim is another part of the rhetoric which is so symptomatic in this Government's policies. This Government states that if there is any small difference in the distribution of income or wealth it is due to the individual's lack of talent or enterprise. As we will see, the reality is somewhat different. Australia has a shocking distribution of income and wealth and under this Government it can be shown to be getting worse. Back in 1971, the London  Times,  referring to Australia, stated: 
The distribution of wealth is among the most inequitable in the civilised world. The rich are very rich and the poor are very poor, and while there is really no excuse for poverty in such a potentially rich country, nevertheless it exists to an alarming degree. 
It is not surprising that the  Times  said that, for in 1974- these are the most recent figures I have been able to get- the top one per cent of income earners received 8.4 per cent of total pre-tax incomes; the top 10 per cent obtained about 30 per cent of total incomes; and, at the other end of the scale, the bottom 20 per cent of persons received less than 2 per cent of total incomes. Because we were aware of that inequity and of the disparity between incomes and taxation, the three Labor Budgets set about to redress that inequity. What did we do? We raised pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We gave more money to the States, which promptly reduced State taxation. Wages were increased and we have been criticised by this Government and by the media ever since. Contrary to what the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  has just said, in point of fact, the last Budget of the Australian Labor Party, the Hayden Budget, set about to relieve 500,000 people from any payasyouearn tax liability. Quite obviously, the Minister is prepared to continue to mislead or to lie to this House,  Mr President. 
The Minister is prepared continually to mislead the Parliament and the Australian people. The document which I presented to the Parliament last evening in my speech on the Budget shows very clearly comparative statistics on PA YE taxation. It shows that in the last Labor Budget PAYE taxation represented 41.7 per cent of total Commonwealth taxation revenue, that in the 1977-78 Budget it went up to 45.2 per cent of total Commonwealth taxation revenue and that in the Budget now before the Parliament it represents 44.1 per cent of total Commonwealth taxation revenue. Yet he has the gall in Question Time and in his contributions in this place constantly to suggest the contrary of what the figures and the Budget documents actually show. What is shown by that survey conducted by the poverty inquiry and published in the London  Times'!  It showed that in Australia men were better off than women, that 10 per cent of males got almost 20 per cent of all income received by males and that the corresponding 10 per cent of females received almost 32 per cent of such female income. 
Let us look at what figures can be shown to do. As a side note, an analysis of the 1973-74 taxation statistics compiled from tax returns indicates that the top one per cent of persons received only 1 8 per cent of income from gross rent, premiums, dividends, interest etcetera, that the top 5 per cent got 38 per cent and that the top 10 per cent got 47 per cent. That is a discrepancy that points not only to the dangers of using taxation statistics for determining income inequality but also suggests that certain income recipients are very skilled at either evading or avoiding tax. As we well know- and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has attested to this- one of the growth industries in this country is the tax avoidance industry. Lawyers and accountants, after having had their education paid for through the public sector, the university system, are not now spending all their time on improving the life styles of the Australian people or on making a contribution to the wealth of this country, but are seeking to distort the incomes of those in the top brackets in Australia. As those figures I have just cited show, they are succeeding in doing just that. Tax avoidance has very much concerned even the current Treasurer. 
Wealth in Australia is distributed just as unequally as it is distributed anywhere else, and the effects of this are clear and are ignored by this Government. Recent research has shown that one per cent of the adult population owns 22 per cent of personal wealth, that the top 5 per cent owns 46 per cent and that the top 10 per cent owns almost 60 per cent of the wealth of Australia. That is what we are talking about in this matter of public importance. Half of all Australians own less than 8 per cent of Australia's wealth. In other words, the top 6 per cent own more than the bottom 90 per cent put together. The results disclose that far from there being an egalitarian society the top 2,000 people own as much wealth as is owned by the bottom twoandahalf million people. The wealthiest 10 percent have 220 times the wealth of the poorest 10 per cent. Any Government that claims in its philosophy, in its practice and in its Budget that it is seeking to redress that, must admit, on the basis of surveys which have been carried out by reputable economists and by people who have based themselves on the statistics of the Australian Taxation Office, that there is a maldistribution of wealth of this country. 
What has this Government done? In accordance with this Government's fantasies of an egalitarian Australia it has dismantled progressively any measures that stand in the way of private greed or, in its own words, incentives. The few redistributive taxes on property- death duties and land taxes- have been either abolished or reduced. In 1966-67 such taxes comprised 9:7 per cent of total tax collected, but 10 years later this figure had fallen to 6.7 per cent. In 1938-39 gift and estate duty comprised 2.6 per cent of total net Federal tax revenue. By 1967-68 this figure had fallen to 1.3 per cent and in the 1 976-77 Budget to 0.4 per cent. Programs to abolish or reform probate and succession duty are being implemented in every State bar South Australia. It is one of the few taxes which redistribute wealth. This Government has decried attempts by the Australian Labor Party to come up with a formula based on capital gains on wealth which would be one way in which those who have the capacity to pay tax shall pay their contribution. 
What about income tax? After all the fanfare about indexation and new scales, surely we can have an equitable income tax system. Not so, however. In reality the proportional tax system, thanks to this Government, is highly regressive, as even Paddy McGuinness stated in the  National Times  of last week when referring to research by Neil Warren of the University of New South Wales. I quote what he said: 
Clearly, the incidence of the tax structure is moving in the direction of greater  regressivity,  and, given the fact that unemployment benefits have not been increased in the interim, it is brutally clear that the tax structure, as it is at present, operates tailor-made to increase the incidence of genuine poverty. 
It is the lower income groups that are paying most tax. Warren concludes that in 1975-76 the income range of $4, 160 to $20,000 accounted for 74 per cent of all households, receiving 7 1 per cent of all money income and paying 70 per cent of all taxes, making the incidence there near proportional between the range of 31.85 per cent and 35.35 per cent or a difference of only threeandahalf percentage points. Below that range households were more heavily taxed overall. It is only above the 1 975-76 income of $20,800- roughly $28,000 in current earning terms- that the tax burden begins to rise substantially above one-third of total income. 
The result makes nonsense of most of the proposals for proportionate income tax put forward by various naive tax reformers who feel that they pay too high a marginal rate of tax. What the proponents of portional income tax without any other changes in the tax structure are in fact proposing is a declining burden of income tax as incomes rise- the poorer you were, the more tax you would pay. This is a proposition which appeals to many higher income earners. An example is the Prime Minister's support for increasing the share of indirect taxation which hits low income earners hardest while reducing marginal rates on high income earners. But it is impossible to justify this on any principle of equity or fairness. Yet that is precisely what this 
Government was about in its last Budget, when it justified the increase in the excise on petrol, and in its previous Budget, when it justified a massive increase in the excise on beer and cigarettes. This Budget has been compounded by the oil levy which in effect is another sales tax and is thus regressive. 
Then there is the tax on social service benefits which this Government has introduced. Surely it does not justify that. It is a shameful exercise if ever there was one. Estate and gift duties were finally buried on 1 July this year. The last remaining tax on wealth was a minor source of revenue, but clearly even this pinprick was intolerable to the masters of the Liberal Party and to those whose assets are in that top 10 per cent to which I referred. The continual decline in the real value of family allowances is another product of the Government's policies. The payments are totally inadequate. The bottom 10 per cent of families receive only 2.2 per cent of aggregate income while the top 10 per cent gain 23 per cent of all income. These actions are typical of the con job that this Government has done on the Australian people. Thank God they are beginning to wake up, as every poll indicates. 
By pretending that income tax is the key, the Government has allowed indirect taxes to hit the poor harder in every Budget. If we are to examine the impact of the tax system we must examine the total tax system and not merely direct income tax. Indirect taxes- sales tax and customs and excise duties, which have increased by seven times in the case of the petrol tax and by 70 per cent in the last four Budgets in the case of excise duties- are paid proportionately to the sale of a product. Since the amount paid is the same irrespective of the income of the purchaser such taxes are regressive. In Australia these indirect taxes on goods and services comprise approximately one-third of government revenue obtained from taxation. Moreover, since company, income and payroll taxes are incorporated in the price of goods and services- and that is not denied by this Government- these too can be considered on one interpretation to be regressive. In addition, one can question the progressivity of the personal income tax structure itself. The definition of income used in assessing tax is likely to favour higher income groups by exemption of most capital gains, subsidised fringe benefits, which we all know exist, and allowing income splitting and spreading. At the same time as the Government claims to be cracking down on tax avoidance, in this very Budget the retention allowance- a classic tax dodge- is raised from 60 per cent to 70 per cent. This is after a lift from 50 per cent to 60 per cent in the previous Budget. So, that is an increase of 40 per cent in the last two Budgets. The refusal to implement tax indexation and instead the reduction of taxation for the few earning higher incomes is typical of this Government's disregard for any humanitarian or egalitarian principles. 
The Mathews Committee on taxation and inflation in 1975 remarked that the effect of inflation was to reduce the progressive structure of personal taxation, since average tax rates rose faster for those on lower incomes. The basic profile of wealth redistribution has remained largely unchanged in the last 55 or 60 years. The relative inequalities still exist and are extensive. Certainly, materially people are better off individually, as the wealth cake has grown overall; but the increase is not as great as myths would indicate. The 1915 mean average male wealth was $665, which converts to about $6,000 in 1970, using the continuous series of retail price indices. But, whilst the cake may have expanded, the shares going to the classes have not really changed. It is still a case of crumbs to the masses, and this Government begrudges them even those crumbs. 
It might be recalled by honourable senators that last evening when I was speaking on the Budget I was endeavouring to make the point that the Budget has to be seen as only one of the instruments which determine the level of economic activity in this country, but in fact it has a limited influence on the course which the economy takes. Our criticism is directed at what we believe are the inadequacies of the Budget in that respect. I made the point that in the operation of the economy of a modern industrial society the real basic decisions about growth, development, the course the economy should follow and the creation of jobs depend largely on decisions which are made privately and not publicly- decisions which are made by major corporations on whether they shall invest here or there, whether their capital will leave this country and go off-shore to Asia, or whether the building of steel mills, oil exploration or other major projects will be undertaken by those owners of capital. I referred to what we have seen happening in recent times as a result of past Liberal-Country Party Budgets. I mentioned that capital has taken advantage of investment decisions, investment incentives, investment allowances and so on to introduce technology. I referred also to the fact that, in addition to those influences, international influences were considerably affecting the course being followed in the Australian economy. 
I mentioned that changes in the economy are taking place against the background of a series of Budgets which have placed emphasis on capital and not labour. As a consequence, the Budgets which have been characteristic of the Fraser Administration, including the current Budget which is a Howard-Fraser Budget, can be described only as class Budgets insofar as they seek to take in taxation from the common pool of income in Australia a greater proportion from the pockets of the wage earners and to redistribute that money in the form of incentives for big business or the big corporate sector of our economy. One only has to look at the balance sheets of numerous major organisations in that sector of our economy to see that their profit ratios have been boosted as a result of the incentives provided in past Budgets. Obviously those organisations will take advantage of incentives contained in this Budget also. 
Notwithstanding those incentives, the fact is that the growth factor is not significant enough to overcome the difficulties present in the Australian economy. Despite the rhetoric of the last four Treasurers, there is a lack of business confidence. There has been a lack of confidence in the Australian community. An examination of any evidence which is available can only lead one to the conclusion that the lack of response by the business sector and by consumers indicates a massive vote of no confidence in the policies being pursued by this Government. This Government is aware of that fact and has been pleading with the business sector to take steps to regenerate the private sector. The Government has been pleading with consumers to spend more. But of course the evidence shows that investment decisions which will create new jobs are not being made and that consumer spending is not taking place. That is because this Government has lost the confidence of the people. 
Not only do the people not trust this Government, not only are they able to see through the Government's mis-statements and misleading pronouncements from time to time, but also the great mass of the people, at least those on the average wage- I am not talking of average weekly earnings but of the average wage, which is about $170 to $180 a week-have found that their living standards have fallen by some $14 a week. It is in that sort of political climate that savings bank deposits are increasing. We cannot blame people for taking steps to put money away for a rainy day because that rainy day is arriving much faster than many people thought it would. Such is the concern in the community now that many economists, organisations such as the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, many people in universities and even many people who generally can be described as conservative in their thinking are beginning to show some signs of concern about what is happening in the economy. 
Yet what does this Government do? It takes more money out of the hands of the average person through higher taxation. It does that both directly in the form of pay-as-you-earn taxation and indirectly in the form of increases in the excise duty on petrol which have been applied seven times and in four Budgets. Those increases have meant that under Fraser the price of petrol has more than doubled in the past 18 months. The cases of people who have come to me show that ordinary working people living in the far western suburbs of Sydney are spending an extra $10 a week getting to and from their places of work because of a lack of planning in housing and the distribution of jobs in far-flung areas away from the place of residence of the workers. That extra $10 a week, coupled with increased taxation, both direct and indirect, and a reduction in living standards resulting from a drop of approximately $14 a week in income all contribute towards the lack of confidence of the average person. 
On the other hand, in taking advantage of the world parity price for oil, this Government has handed out to the oil companies massive sums of money. I was referring to that when I concluded my remarks last evening. One company, the Esso-BHP company, has gained $400m. If we look at other corporations we find that in the last two Budgets $920m in actual handouts has gone to the big corporations to buy machinery for the purpose not only of increasing productivity but also of reducing the labour content. As a result of this increase in technology hundreds of thousands of jobs have disappeared from the labour market never to come back. We heard honourable senators in a previous debate referring to the fact that technology is something of a progressive nature. Of course it is, provided that it leads to the eradication of menial tasks and does not lead to an increase in unemployment. 
What does this Budget do? The retention allowance has been raised once again, this time to 70 per cent, which opens even further loopholes for the big business sector. As can be seen, the Government's policy has been to fight inflation in an effective way except to the extent that inflation is now being used as an excuse to reduce the workers' living standards. All that the Government has done in its four Budgets and its two mini-Budgets is to make inflation worse. We all recognise that by the end of the last quarter of this year we are likely to have an inflation rate of something like 14 per cent a year. As demand falls the large corporations simply raise prices to protect profits. That has been shown clearly by a study made by the United States Congress to be the process that operates. Honourable senators opposite may laugh, but there is abundant evidence that in a period of declining sales profits rise because prices have no control mechanism. This is particularly so in an economy which is as concentrated as that of Australia. Australia has one of the largest concentrations of corporate power in the Western world. This Government sees the allowing of prices to rise as part of its integral strategy because it has taken steps to reduce the incidence of supervision through the Trade Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is not surprising, therefore, that people are not spending because with a predicted growth rate of  2'A  per cent- half of that of last year- they fear for their jobs. 
Let us lok at the external debts. This idiotic policy is compounded by massive borrowings on overseas capital markets to plug holes in our balance of payments. After criticising the Labor Party for trying to borrow money for productive investments- for controlling our natural resources and for buying back the farm- this Government turns around and puts Australia in hock to the tune of $4,700m. To bring it down to a per capita basis, $390 for every many, woman and child in Australia is the extent to which this Government has borrowed over the last four years. Even the Bank of New South Wales, which I do not think would lose any sleep if I were to say that it is a supporter of the philosophy and policies of this Government, has seen fit to note the following in a recent document: 
The period of heaviest burden of capital repayment when debts mature starts in 1981-82 and does not ease until 1987-88 . . . If in three or four years hence Australia were still in the position of being a net borrower overseas, over and above its requirement to roll over borrowings, it could in deed be building up intractable problems on the external account. 
When this is combined with tariff policies that are progressively destroying an independent Australian economy it is clearly true that this Government's policy is the most disastrous in Australia 's history. 
In the few moments that I have left I want to refer to the often repeated criticism that is made about the attempts of the Labor Government to redress the imbalance of income distribution in Australia when we took specific steps to catch up on public works and to increase the ratio of wages to incomes and profits. We are supposed to be concerned about public requirements and facilities in our own country, and I think it is interesting to look at page 253 of Budget Paper No. 1 to see what happened in the years when Labor was in office. We certainly increased the expenditure needed to catch up for the long years of post-war Liberal rule. We make no apologies for the fact that in our first Budget we increased education expenditure by four times; that in our second Budget our allocation for social security went up by 50 per cent; that in our first Budget we increased by 339 per cent the amount of money going to the States for public housing; that we increased by 1 93 per cent the allocation for urban affairs in the previous Liberal Budget; that we increased the money going to culture and recreation by 85.6 per cent; and that in our third Budget we increased the money allocations for health and welfare by 130 percent. These are not matters which we believe we should have to defend as though we made some indefensible decision to increase the money for water and sewerage supplies and to try to give money to the States so that the price of land and accommodation could be brought down within the reach of the ordinary citizen. We make no apologies for increasing pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and for making money available so that cities' and decentralisation planning schemes could be brought into effect. 
It is true that taxation increased in those periods. But who were the beneficiaries of those increases to which I have just referred? Substantially it was the States. In 1 970 the Premiers of the six States of Australia, Liberal and Labor, made a very strong submission to the national Parliament about the inadequacies of the Liberal Party as far as State funding was concerned. We took steps, as is shown on page 260 of Budget Paper No. 1, because in our three Budgets we increased payments to the States and to local government from $2, 623m to $4,436m, an increase of 70 per cent. We see that even in this Budget the States and local government get 36 cents in every dollar that is collected by the national Government. So they should, because if the Commonwealth does not have equitable arrangements with the States, the States will increase State taxation; and that would be detrimental to the overall interest of the Australian people. 
This Budget continues the inept, inadequate and incorrect policies of the first Fraser Budget which was brought in in 1976 and in which the Government expressed confidence that the business sector would take up the slack, that consumers would begin to spend and that the economy would get on an even keel. Four years later in its fourth Budget the Government knows that unemployment is up, that inflation is beginning to rise again, that there is a lack of business confidence in this country- except in the big corporate sector- that the small business sector is reeling as a result of the downturn in the economy and that the average Australian has no confidence in the Budget's strategy or in its objectives of trying to get some health back into the Australian economy. In the light of those circumstances the Labor Party makes a very trenchant criticism of the most contractionary Budget that has been brought before the national Parliament during the period of the Fraser Administration. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of reports that prices for proprietary pharmaceuticals can vary by as much as $ 1 from chemist to chemist and that this is due to the pricing policies of the drug companies? In view of the large sums citizens spend on pharmaceutical goods, can the Minister indicate what relief the Government or the Trade Practices Commission can provide to bring about some standardisation of price of such medicinal products? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Carrick  and I would like to set the record straight. He claimed that I was misleading the Senate and the public with respect to the Bankcard interest rate. I would like the Senate to note that on page 3347 of the Australian Bankers Association submission to the Campbell inquiry on finance the following appears: 
Approval for the interest service charge rate on Bankcard of 1.5 per cent was granted by the Federal Treasurer in mid- 1972. 
The Federal Treasurer in mid- 1972 was  Mr Snedden. 
The Australian Labor Party has brought before the Senate the discussion of this matter of the increasing cost of consumer credit because of the grave problems being created for many thousands of consumers by the huge growth of consumer credit facilities. We are concerned at the lack of action by this Government to institute any form of regulation or control in this area of vital importance to millions of Australians. We are concerned about the rapid and largely uncontrolled expansion of credit. We are concerned about the dubious and sometimes dishonest techniques used by some companies to induce consumers to buy on credit. We are concerned about the exhorbitant interest rates which consumers are forced to pay and about the monopolistic features of the finance market. 
From time to time the Parliament has considered the matter of credit in Australia. The Senate, in establishing a committee in 1970, had in mind the need for some supervision. But nine long years have gone by and little progress has been registered in the Commonwealth's accepting some area of responsibility. As we are moving into the credit era, into a cashless society, a period in which most purchases will be made by credit cards, it seems an anomaly and a matter for some criticism that the national Parliament has not given more serious consideration to its responsibilities. 
The finance industry of this country is controlled by seven huge corporations and their subsidiaries. From this comfortable position, and with assets exceeding some $80,000m, these financial vacuum cleaners are sucking consumers dry. Bank overdrafts, the cheapest form of finance, at an interest rate of around 10 per cent, are now increasingly hard to get. People are forced to go in more and more for expensive personal loans or to the banks' financial subsidiaries. These finance companies engage in huge and often misleading advertising campaigns. I refer here not so much to the major companies as to some of the smaller companies. Once he is in the finance company's hands the customer will be faced with interest rates of up to 28 per cent and more. Quoted misleading 'flat rates', consumers are often pushed into arrangements by the denial of bank finance and are often unclear about finance contracts which they barely understand. Bankcard users also are often unclear about the peculiar arrangements, paying 18 per cent without knowing it and, of course, there is the impact of the 5 per cent service charge on prices. It is not surprising, then, that the average increase in profits for the year 1977-78 was a massive 39.8 per cent. People are being urged to buy, buy and buy, yet very little is done to establish the giving of any information to the consumer or to exercise restraint on the rates of interest that are charged. 
I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to bank overdraft rates of 10!£ per cent, to personal bank loan rates of between 13 and 14Vi per cent, to credit loans at 12 to 1 6 per cent, to Bankcard finance at 1 8 per cent, to department store credit rates of up to 22.2 per cent, to finance company rates which average 22 to 27 per cent, and to high interest finance company loans with interest charges of 28 per cent or more. The latter are imposed by fringe operators who advertise mostly in some of our weekly newspapers. They are willing to lend to almost anybody, but it is the most expensive way to borrow. 
I am also concerned about the collapse of finance companies, an occurrence which robs thousands of small savers of their life savings and results in thousands of small borrowers being forced to pay higher rates of interest. We should be concerned about this matter because we have to recognise that the people who go to consumer credit agencies, wherever and whatever they are, are in the lower income group. Often they do not enjoy ready cash, lack financial resources and are being persuaded to buy in the market place by the ever-increasing expenditure on advertising campaigns designed to entice the consumer to purchase goods that he may want but may not be able, in fact, to afford. 
In Australia in recent years there has been a rapid growth in consumer credit extension and, similarly, a rapid growth in consumer indebtedness. Australia is now the world's third largest credit user per capita. There is no doubt that recent developments in credit extension and facilities in the United States will be repeated in Australia. Some of the more unsavoury and exploitive United States developments will also soon be manifested in Australia unless some action is taken nationally and in co-operation with the States. The greater acceptance of credit and indebtedness today is largely the result of the selling of the idea of credit- a credit psychology in an age of mass marketing and mass consumption, and an age of buy now and pay later. 
There has been in the last decade a marked change in public attitudes to credit. There has been not only a rapid growth in consuming indebtedness, but also a proliferation of financial institutions and financial practices directed at the market for consumer loans. We see evidence of this in most of our suburbs now with a proliferation of shop front consumer credit agencies springing up. Yet it is only this year that this Government has taken the step of establishing the Campbell inquiry. 
Let us look at the trends because, unfortunately, we have the tendency in this country of following the leader. In the United States there has been a very marked development and a change in the whole marketing and purchasing processes. In the United States it is now difficult to subsist without a pocketful of plastic credit cards. By June 1 979 instalment credit, excluding mortgages, was a staggering $300 billion or almost $1,500 a head. United States credit card companies have adopted hard sell tactics to gain more customers. These include giant mail-outs running into millions of dollars and free gifts for new customers. Of course, as a result of this massive development, they are confronted with soaring credit delinquencies. More and more people in that country are being caught out by being unable to meet their commitments as a result of the easy flow of credit cards. With inflation and unemployment rising in that country, as it is in this country, these delinquencies are bound to increase. In the United States, the largest part of the average consumers pay cheque is now used to pay off interest and capital principal on loans. There was a huge increase of 22.7 per cent in the first quarter of 1 979. 
This growth in consumer indebtedness has been accompanied by the emergence of financial counselling centres of credit addicts. That is the new process that is taking place. We do not just have drug addicts. We now have credit addicts who have to be looked at in the social welfare field. These trends are being paralleled in Australia. Social welfare agencies, church agencies and State consumer groups all show an increasing number of people being affected by over-commitments in the area of consumer credit. Consumer debt interest has increased over the last three years by, respectively, 23 per cent, 20 per cen t and 1 8 per cent. This is clear, if we look at the amount of consumer credit which is outstanding as at June 1979. The major banks, for example, have on personal loans $2,02 lm or $144 a head, which is an increase of 29 per cent on the previous year. Bankcard has $77 lm or $55 a head, an increase of 39 per cent on the previous year. The finance companies are lending $4,250m, which is $304 a head. Credit unions have $64 a head. These figures mean that as a result of recent trends in marketing indebtedness on consumer credit alone has now reached the staggering figure of $567 a head. The source of that information is the Reserve Bank. 
Let us take one example. AVCO Financial Services, a subsidiary of a United States corporation, reported an increase in net after-tax earnings for the half year to 3 1 May of 17.5 per cent. This increase, it is said, was due to the greater emphasis on consumer loans which are now 90 per cent of its operations, where gross returns are high and cash flow is steady. The group's gross yield was 22 per cent, despite an increase of net credit losses as a proportion of net receivables outstanding from 0.73 per cent to 0.91 per cent. Finance figures show that the net profits of the major banks and their finance companies have increased enormously. Of course, this is what ought to be discussed in the Australian community. The Bank of New South Wales and the Australian Guarantee Corporation and its subsidiaries have increased their net profit by 62.6 per cent in the six months to March of this year. The Australian and New Zealand Banking Group and Esanda increased its net profit by 5 1 per cent, the National Bank and Custom Credit by 22.3 per cent, the Commercial Bank of Australia and General Credits by 38.9 per cent, and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney and Commercial and General Acceptance by 83.6 per cent. 
This brings us to the disturbing result of this great growth in consumer credit. I refer to the difficulties that consumers have in meeting their payments. Many people find themselves overcommitted with hire purchase and credit card transactions. Increasing extension of credit services to consumers in times of inflation and unemployment inevitably bring problems to many consumers. It is essential that governments protect consumers from unscrupulous financial operators, from unfair and discriminatory practices, and from themselves, through education. 
While the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is here, I say that I find the current publication by the Department of Education in conjunction with the Department of Business and 
Consumer Affairs,  Consumer Education  Australia, a wonderful publication, but unfortunately it has not dealt specifically with the very important question of consumer education. That is only a minor point of criticism of what is an otherwise very fine publication. There is a growing tendency for issuers of credit cards and financial services to adopt hard-sell techniques to induce consumers to increase their credit commitments. There have been reports of retailers pressuring customers to obtain credit cards rather than accepting cash, and some finance companies employ door-to-door salesmen to work in the suburbs, persuading people that they can afford to buy goods on hire purchase. I refer to one report which comes from the New South Wales Department of Consumer Affairs. According to an article in the Sydney  Sun  of 2 1 September 1977, the Department states: 
A number of finance companies are involved. They arrange with a firm specialising in door-to-door sales to carry out a canvassing operation in a particular area . . . 
Usually, it is a low income area. 
The consumer is offered a choice of manchester- towels, blankets, sheets, linen goods- toys and Christmas food hampers to be paid 'on terms'. 
The householder's account is assigned to the finance company, which has representatives calling to collect payments weekly. 
During this repayment period, the visiting representative, who has become a familiar face around the home, will suggest that the consumer has established a 'credit rating' and is eligible fora personal loan. 
Even more credit can be made available and, inevitably, the situation arises where the consumer has difficulty in paying. The report goes on to say: 
Housewives have complained that they have been threatened with penalty interest- around 52 per cent flat - unless the loan is 'renewed '. 
If they do not follow this action, they must repay the loan immediately. In the  Bulletin,  there is an article about  Mr and Mrs Average.  It deals with the sort of fellow who is easily convinced to enter the area of consumer credit. It states: 
The profile of the typical debtor: he is in his early 30s, married but his wife doesn't work. He has a take-home pay of $150 a week- the family's only income apart from child endowment. He has two children and lives in a middletolow income area in a rented home costing about $48 a week. He is paying  off a   colour TV, a refrigerator and a 2-year-old car. A blue-collar worker, he could spend some time each year unemployed. He doesn't have a cheque account. 
Such is the picture painted by Peter Buckland,  chairman  of one of Australia's major debt collection firms . . . 
This kind of fellow is just too easily sold' . . . 
Therefore, there is a necessity for education of the community about the need to be much more involved in understanding the processes of consumer credit. Consumers must be protected by legislation from the sorts of practices to which I have referred. Fortunately, some action is being taken by the States, but there is no uniformity and there is no initiative by the national Government. In particular, New South Wales will soon introduce legislation to abolish hire purchase agreements and replace them with mortgage arrangements. Nevertheless, bad debts have almost doubled in Australia in the past two years and this had led the  President  of the Institute of Mercantile Agents- which is a debt collection agency- to say: 
People fall easy victim to the fact that they can get a new car, washing machine or lounge suite on virtually no deposit. 
When these goods are constantly pushed onto consumers through massive advertising, and consumers are made to feel inadequate unless they respond, no wonder this problem arises. This is even more understandable when one realises that the money to buy these goods is also pushed onto the consumer. I note that it has been reported that nearly all of the 30,000 calls received by Lifeline- a Sydney welfare agencylast year had some element of financial difficulty involved. When dealing with consumer credit, it is not only the way it is sold to the public, but also the price of it that is a problem. I refer here to the interest rates charged by companies in the business of selling credit. 
Interest rates are high largely because of the oligopolistic market structure, despite the diversity of loan suppliers. This lack of competition is directly related to the dominance of the consumer loan market by a few powerful companies. I have already referred to the great market power of the seven major banks and their capacity to move the business of their customers to the subsidiary finance companies. These banks do not compete in terms of interest rates or services. Since they also control the large finance companies, competition is lessened even further. For example, in 1900 there were 20 Australian banks but after the merger of the Bank of Adelaide with the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd the number will be down to eight. The banks and their finance companies set their interest rates at similar levels and the remaining firms in the loan industry generally accept these rates and follow suit. 
Honourable senators will recall that when elected in 1975, the Government said that one of its principal objectives was to reduce interest rates. Whilst there has been a very minor reduction in interest rates in the general market, there has been no comparable reduction in interest rates charged for consumer credit. In fact, since that time, although inflation has dropped, interest rates have continued to rise, particularly in the area of consumer finance. There is no effective competition despite what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said on 11 July 1979. He said: 
This Government favours the maximum competition possible within the Australian financial system. 
Our main reason for complaint is the exorbitant interest rates which are being charged in the market place. In particular, I refer to the interest rate charged by Bankcard. All banks charge the same rate of interest. Therefore, there is no competition. This high rate has remained constant since 1974 when the scheme was first introduced and when the inflation rate was considerably higher than it is today. Other loan rates have fluctuated, but at the same time the banks, through advertising and promotion and by departing from the previous practice of providing personal credit on overdrafts, have increased lending at a very high rate. Figures issued by the Reserve Bank of Australia show the Bankcard advances outstanding increased by 1 39 per cent between June 1976 and June 1977, by 57 per cent between June 1977 and June 1978 and an estimated 35 per cent between June 1978 and June 1979.  Choice  magazine in its February issue estimated that banks earned $6m a month from Bankcard operations on a total initial investment of only $8m 
Despite this profitable business, the banks have been reported as advising applicants for personal loans and overdrafts to take out a Bankcard and get cash credit. The interest rate on a personal loan is about 14 per cent reducible and the overdraft interest rate is about 18 per cent. Unfortunately, people are persuaded to take out a Bankcard on which they pay 18 per cent interest on the money they borrow. The interbank agreement would be illegal in the United States of America and Canada. The United States equivalent of Bankcard, Visa, is available to all banks and financial institutions which satisfy certain criteria. Interest rates for Visa differ from institution to institution and vary from 12 per cent to 18 per cent. The lower rates are offered by credit unions. The Bankcard scheme could certainly be extended to credit unions. They could offer cheaper services and provide competition for the banks, which are currently growing fat off their customers. We assert that the present Bankcard system is discriminatory. 
Honourable senators will recall that the establishment of the credit union movement in the early post-years had as its intention and objective the provision of cheap credit for co-operative movements that were established at the work place and community level. Unfortunately, that movement is in the process of being squeezed out of the whole area of consumer credit. It provides one of the best rates of interest for those people who want to purchase the normal consumer goods in the market place. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Has a person responsible for or associated with Almond Growers, Jaxone and other companies received, or have those companies received, amounts of up to $250,000 from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for the purpose of employing Aborigines in growing almonds or in performing other work? Can the Minister say what Aborigines have been employed, and when, by the companies or associated recipients of that money? Have the Government's funds been used to buy cattle or for any other company purposes in the Tamworth district or elsewhere? Has the principal concerned a business association with the Department's area officer, including a common interest in race horses? Can the Minister say what steps the Government has taken to recover Federal funds improperly applied? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Fire Board has advised the Department of Administrative Services that the Ford LTD vehicles proposed to be purchased for ministerial use could constitute a fire danger? Has the Government therefore in the interests of ministerial safety abandoned the proposal to buy LTD cars? What action has the Government taken to discuss the fire danger with the Ford company with a view to protecting the public from vehicles that may have technical defects that could cause death or injury? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it true that this week the Public Service Board has spent $7,000 to employ an American computer security expert to give a two-day talk to public servants? At $3,500 a day for lectures, would it not be cheaper for public servants to read this expert's book? As we are supposed to be interested in policies of economic restraint, how can the Minister justify this expenditure? 
It is pleasing in one respect to see that the Government is continuing to accept some part responsibility for funding the voluntary conservation organisations. But I think it has to be said that the Government's emphasis on economic restraint and on the reduction of public funding generally is affecting the efficient and proper functioning and responsibilities of the conservation movements. One would hope that the Government, and particularly the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  would take a very firm stand against any further reduction in the funds for these important organisations. 
One of the facts that have to be recognised is that if it were not for the work of the voluntary conservation movements throughout our country many of the important areas which need to be preserved and conserved, many of the important buildings that should be preserved and many of the important functions that ought to be the responsibilities of public authorities, would not be attended to properly. Because of the dedication and involvement of increasing numbers of people at the grass roots level, we have seen the development of the voluntary conservation movements in the Western world and particularly in our country in recent times. It can be argued that such movements should have not only their own momentum but also their own funding. However, the sorts of responsibilities that citizens have taken upon themselves, that is, the protection of the environment in its many and varied forms, being borne in mind, it is becoming more and more important that they have the wherewithal to carry out the important function of protecting the public and community interest. If government funds are restricted, reduced or not available to the degree and in the quantity necessary to carry out that function, the community at large suffers as a result of any penny-pinching policy of government. 
One only has to look at the areas in which conservationists have operated to see the important task that they perform and to see the importance of resources that they have to employ in order to bring to the notice of the community and governments what ought to be the responsibility of the community. Of course governments in that respect have some particular responsibility to act on behalf of the community. We have seen abundant evidence over the last decade or so of the need for community action to bring to the attention of the bureaucracy- and government is a part of that bureaucracy- what should be its concern for protecting important matters which fall generally within the umbrella of the environment. 
Of course, that means that dedicated and concerned citizens have to identify what public authorities or the private sector will do in respect of matters affecting the environment. That task involves research, travel, time off work, presentation of argument, taking the case to the media and of course, a watchdog responsibility. I believe that part of government responsibility in this area is to provide the wherewithal or the essential resource so that concerned citizens can take up an obligation which they feel ought to be obligation of government. In recent years we have seen not only a reduction in the amount of funds provided but also in real terms a lessening of money available to the organisations at a time when development in both the public and private sectors of our economy is putting more and more pressures upon the protection of the environment in its varied forms. 
It is true that many members of the committee make donations and many sacrifices to fund and carry out what are obviously community concerns. That needs to be matched by government responses and the best way that governments can respond in that sense is by providing sufficient funds so that the organisations do not have to concern themselves with the raising of funds from public subscription and public organisation in order that they may carry out this very important watchdog function. It matters not whether it is the Barrier Reef, Terania forests, Lake George, or the Black Mountain in Canberra. Whatever the case may be, there is a need for community involvement. 
One of the pleasing things we have seen in more recent years is the degree to which young people have taken upon themselves the need to protect the environment from the many pressures that exist within the Australian community. Young people have a better sense of conserving our environment and more concern about what is happening through the varied forms of pressure and development that take place within our community. Environmental impact statements on all matters of development, whether in the private or public sector, are becoming very important from the point of view of looking at all sides of development. That, in itself, is where funds are becoming more and more important. If there is to be a proper evaluation of development, wherever it is and in whatever form it takes, it requires resources to carry out an allsided objective analysis of the particular development or project that is involved. We have seen, particularly in the private sector, the use of tremendous resources by the private entrepreneurs in order to present a case to the general public and to the Australian Parliament that such and such a development is in the public interest. It is sad to see the environment movement, with its lack of resources, having to match the largely unlimited resources that the private sector has in these matters. It is important for Ministers, governments and for the Parliament to accept an additional responsibility and to see, in periods of economic restraint, that this one area is not placed in the same position as all other categories, with an automatic funding reductions taking place from Budget to Budget to the point where, in fact, the work of the voluntary organisations becomes less effective and in many ways is rendered ineffective. I hope, therefore, that the Minister, whether in this place, in the Cabinet room or when the Budget allocations are made, will continue not only to press very strongly for maintaining funding in real terms taking into account inflation, but also to bring to the attention of the Cabinet and the framers of the Budget the need to extend this aspect of community involvement. We in the Parliament see our role as trustees, as guardians, of the work being carried out by the voluntary organisations. They give up their time and need extra incentive, resources, funding and encouragement so that the Australian environment, which, relatively, is in its infancy at this stage of our economic development, will be protected for all time, and future generations will look back and say that those who acted in a voluntary capacity and those in the Parliament both played their part to present a balanced view of development as it relates to the Australian environment. I seek leave to continue my remarks later.  ( Quorum formed). 
I understand that amendments are to be moved to the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. The Opposition is at somewhat of a disadvantage due to the fact that the amendments- I think the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  will concede this- are relatively late in coming on to the scene. During the suspension of the sitting this evening I attempted to get some guidance from my colleague who handles these matters in the other place, but so far I have not been able to get a suitable explanation. I wonder whether the Minister is in a position to inform the Senate about the objectives of the amendments. I understand that they are not of any great consequence. The Opposition would like to have that sort of assurance from the Minister- that they do not make any substantial challenge to the Billparticularly recognising that the Opposition supported the general trend of the legislation. Perhaps we could be given assurances that the proposed amendments do not radically alter the original concepts of the Bills. 
The Senate is being asked to give its assent to very voluminous legislation which encompasses five Bills associated with the maritime industry, the principal Bill being the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. I think it is worth while recalling to the attention of the Senate that an inquiry was set up in 1 973 to inquire into the maritime service industry in Australia. Arising from it, although not particularly germane to this piece of legislation, in 1975 the Parliament had under consideration amendments to the Navigation Act which sought to take into consideration some of the factors relating to that inquiry and to ratify a number of international covenants and agreements relating to the maritime industry generally. The Bill lapsed when the Whitlam Government was unceremoniously dismissed from office in 1975. But as we know, in the aftermath of that period nothing was done until this Government sought to reintroduce a Bill, taking into account the matters that were relevant to the 1977 legislation. When Parliament was again disrupted by the actions of the conservatives, when Parliament was prorogued in 1977, the principal Bill, the Navigation Amendment Bill, again lapsed. It was reintroduced into the House of Representatives in May of this year. Now, some four years after the Bill was first introduced into the Parliament, this very important piece of legislation, together with the associated Bills with which we are dealing cognately, is receiving the consideration of the Senate. 
The Bill is long overdue. It is an important Bill. It is a vital piece of legislation. It has been a long time coming. Veritably it has been a piece of legislation which can be described as having travelled on a slow boat to China. Nevertheless, it is legislation that the Opposition does not intend to oppose because it takes into consideration the basic features of the Whitlam Government's proposals back in 1975, when the Bill was introduced by the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones. The proposed Act gives effect in Australia to five international shipping conventions and lays down the regulations regarding the qualifications required by seamen. It will require complementary legislation by the States, as I understand some of the ramifications come within the purview of the States. So even when Parliament does finally agree to this Bill there will be another passage of time before the full procedure is set in motion. 
The regulations do have some relationship to the seamen who man our ships, and that is particularly important. The Bill sets out to tighten up the provisions which govern the safe operation of ships. As I have indicated, these changes are long overdue. In fact, some of the earlier legislation which will have to be changed by the States dates right back into the last century and the early part of this century. The Bill will be welcomed by all of those groups involved in the shipping industry, whether it be the statutory authorities which operate in the federal or State jurisdiction, the shipowners, or the trade unions concerned. 
I think it appropriate here that a few comments are made concerning the state of Australia's shipping industry. The Bill provides for the establishment of a code of uniform shipping laws concerned with such aspects as construction standards, fittings, materials, stability, load line and the equipping of vessels under 500 tonnes. This should be seen as setting the framework for a growing Australian shipping industry. However, it must be said that since this Government has come into office, it has demonstrated its opposition to the expansion of the Australian international shipping industry, for a whole variety of reasons which I do not want to canvass, other than to say that the Australian Labor Party believes that the establishment and maintenance of a secure shipping industry are vital not only for economic reasons and our own domestic economy, but also from the point of view of defence. This is of crucial significance to shipping for Australia's own economic wellbeing. Australia, being the seventeenth largest trading nation in the world, is dependent upon an efficient line of maritime transport, both to carry its exports of rural and mineral products to other counties, and to import vital manufactured goods. I think we have seen plenty of evidence in recent times of the need to have a very efficient and stable industry. I would suggest that efficiency criteria have to be applied in economic terms to our maritime industry. 
It is strange that with record unemployment, even if we were not aware of the fact that the Government has allowed our shipping industry to run down, the Government should suppress an industry with the potential to provide substantial employment opportunities in areas of shipbuilding, ship repair and ship crews. I think it should be pointed out to the Senate that countries on a similar trade basis with Australia are cognisant of their responsibilities in these areas. I think it is particularly important that we draw attention to the fact that recently the Carter Administration in the United States has recognised the importance of fostering a strong domestic shipping industry and the employment which can be created as a result of such a stable and prosperous industry. The fact is that Australia's international shipping is overwhelmingly dominated by the foreign multi-national shipping conferences. The foreign conference lines and the trans-national companies carry some 99 per cent of Australia's overseas trade. We are therefore dependent upon their goodwill in many respects. In short, we are completely dependent upon these big corporations whose main concern is their own profitability, rather than Australia's interests as determined by its own economic development. 
The effects of this foreign domination are several. Freight payments represent a huge drain of profits flowing overseas. The effect of this on our balance of payments has been obvious for years. I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="082232197910096_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

The table shows that in 1971-72 freight payments caused $207.8m to go out of the country into the pockets of foreign capital. By 1976-77 this figure had risen tremendously, even allowing for inflation, to the sum of $78 1.6m. This represents a huge drain on our balance of payments and wipes out our advantage from a surplus on the balance of trade, that is, an excess of export of goods over imports of goods. As we know, the Parliament has from time to time concerned itself in trying to develop more export-oriented industries in our country, in developing minerals and rural products for export purposes, and emphasis has been given to this in all sorts of incentive payments as a result of Budget consideration. It seems strange that we should put ourselves in a position where the overseas shipping companies can drain out of this country some of the advantages that result from the domestic decisions that we made to bring about an improvement in our balance of payments situation. 
Australia needs to join the many countries which are trying to overcome the dominance of the big shipping conferences which are a law unto themselves, which set the pattern, and which make the decisions which companies and countries have to follow automatically. The overseas countries are doing this by adopting a formula which is known in the shipping industry as a 40:40:20 policy. In other words, 40 per cent of our trade should be carried by Australian ships; 40 per cent of our trade should be carried by the countries with which we trade; and the remaining 20 per cent should be carried by the ships of the Third World. So often these ships sail under the flags of convenience which are known by many people to represent the way out for countries which seek to profit through the use of the shipping conference at the expense of weaker countries and companies. We need to build up our domestic shipping industry. Under the 40:40:20 policy we could have turned a balance of payments deficit of $687.7m on freight payments in 1977-78 into a surplus of $ 136.6m. I seek leave to incorporate another table in  Hansard  which sets out the position. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
While the Minister is looking at that table, I point out that it shows that the balance of payments saving on freight payments under the 40:40:20 ratio in 1 97 1-72 would have been $43.8m. The saving in 1977-78 would have been $ 1 36.6m. Over the period under review- for 1971 to 1978- Australia could have been $824.3m richer as a result of adopting the formula which many countries are adopting as a means by which the companies can operate and the countries can profit from their own trading arrangements. 
The rip-offs do not end there. If we compare total transportation credits- that is, the benefit to Australia from the expenditure by foreign ships on bunkering, stevedoring, taxes, et cetera, while docked in Australian ports- with the total transportation debits- that is, these expenses paid out by Australian ships when docked in foreign ports- we get a startling result. The figures show that in 1977-78, for example, total credits amounted to $45 5m and total debits were $63 7m. The debits include payments for chartering foreign ships. These figures are in the same range despite the fact that Australian shipping carries 99 times less of Australian overseas trade than overseas shipping. In other words, overseas shipping is charged very low rates for all sorts of services in Australian ports. That means that we are subsidising these foreign shipping lines- as I understand it, this is done largely by the State instrumentalities- but get charged full rates when Australian ships dock in overseas ports. 
The Navigation Amendment Bill would be a much more acceptable document- it does go some way towards trying to establish a more equitable system- if it were presented in the context of a dynamic and expanding Australian owned and government backed shipping industry. In these circumstances we would be likely to profit very considerably by the changes in our overseas trade and in our balance of payments. Not only would we diminish our dependence on foreign shipping lines; we could simultaneously improve to a significant degree our ailing balance of payments. As we know, the balance of payments from time to time constitutes a major problem. Such a shipping industry would have the effect also of providing several thousand jobs for shipbuilders, ship repairers and seamen. Of course, this ought to be the strategy adopted by the Parliament and by a government worth its salt- a government prepared to take the steps to establish an independent position in our shipping industry. 
It is true that this substantial legislation- the Navigation Amendment Bill and associated Bills- will create a great deal more stability and confidence in our snipping industry. It will have the effect of establishing some purpose and sense of responsibility in the industry itself. That is an important prerequisite before taking the next step, which would be to establish a lot more Australian influence in the management of our maritime industry. It is because the Opposition sees these Bills as being a step in the right direction that it supports them. I now seek leave to have that second table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="082232197910096_26_2.jpg"></graphic>

On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Senate declines to give the Bill a second reading until it is re-drafted to include the following: 
the Government's 1975 Election commitment to give financial and moral support to the future of the growth centre: 
the provision of proper trransport and communications links to Albury/ Wondonga; 
provision for the discouragement of private development capital and land speculation, following restructuring ofthe Development Corporation; 
the re-establishment of a Consultative Council to include broad representation from the Albury/ Wodonga community; 
a firm undertaking by the Government to transfer relevant Government departments to Albury/Wodonga from over-centralised Melbourne to assure the future of the growth centre; and 
support by the Government for existing manufacturing industry in the growth centre and the encouragement of new industry there '. 
The purpose of the Albury-Wodonga Development Amendment Bill is to amend the Albury-Wodonga Development Act of 1973. The Bill seeks to alter the membership of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation from five to eight members and to provide common membership of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. At present the Corporation is made up of three full time and two part time members. It is an example of co-operation between the Commonwealth and New - South Wales and Victoria which are also members of the ministerial council. It was agreed that these objectives could best be achieved by extending the membership of the Corporation to include the mayors of the towns of Albury and Wodonga as ex-officio part time members of the Corporation. 
It might be recalled that the Whitlam Government came to office in 1972 on the basis of an acceptance of the principle of taking energetic Commonwealth initiatives in respect of decentralisation. All political parties have, in their platforms, support for the principles of decentralisation. What, political parties do about decentralisation when they get into government I think is relevant. The establishment of active decentralisation bodies in rural areas in various parts of Australia was one of the most important steps that was taken by the Whitlam Government immediately it came to office. The AlburyWodonga concept has to be regarded as the most innovative, the most important and the one upon which most Government resources have been applied in the intervening years. It is a very valuable experiment and exercise in cooperation between governments which from time to time have different attitudes and different philosophies on what can and should be done concerning the development of decentralisation policies. The legislation that we are debating weakens that concept and takes steps to alter the philosophy that was behind the urban and decentralisation objectives and strategies of the Labor Government from 1972 and 1975. 
The legislation makes provision for a prominent businessman to serve on the Corporation in order to build up its membership. The addition of the mayors of Albury and Wodonga and the prominent businessman bring the composition of the Corporation to eight members. The prominent businessman who has been selected,  Mr Russell  Prowse, is a well known banker from the Bank of New South Wales. We know a great deal about  Mr Prowse.  He has been a very prominent spokesman over the years about a whole series of public issues in this country. I do not think he would expect me to say anything more than what I say: He is regarded as being an ultra conservative in his approach to economic matters. He espouses extreme private enterprise attitudes. I think the appointment of  Mr Prowse,  whilst I have no doubts at all about his competence and his capacity to serve the philosophy or objectives of this Government, is in many ways a regressive step. This person has had commercial links over, the years and the organisation to which he belongs has been very active in the field of real estate and land .development in the post-war years. 
We have heard a lot about inflation over the last decade or so. I think it has to be recognised that perhaps land is the commodity in Australia whose fictitious value has increased more than that of any other commodity. For example, at the end of the war in Sydney and Melbourne ordinary blocks of land could have been purchased for approximately $100; prime areas would have attracted an extra $50. Today those pieces of land in Sydney and Melbourne are priced well in excess of $20,000 to $25,000. In proportion, inflationary values of land have gone up many times greater than the cost of building. One would expect that the Government, which has made something of a thing about inflation since it came to office, would be concerned to maintain the vigilance, the diligence and the activities that were so much part of the Whitlam administration's attempts to 'try to curb the excessive growth in the value of land which has been a characteristic of the post-war development. For example I recall Tom Uren's speaking about exploitation of the people of Australia by inflating the price of land. In 1970 he stated: 
The greatest financial corporations in Australia, backed by the great Tree enterprise banks, all of whose directors and managers appear prominently in  Who's Who  and the New Year's Honours List - 
Those people have profited by the lack of government intervention in the area of land development. 
Of course, it is the banks and companies such as the Australian Guarantee Corporation, Associated Securities Limited and the Finance Corporation of Australia that have been actively involved. As far as I am able to gauge, while the stockmarket is a constantly changing picture, at the present time the Bank of New South Wales has 76 per cent of the shares in Australian Guarantee Corporation. Those three subsidiaries of the banks have played a very significant part in buying land and speculating in the value of land. Yet  Mr Russell  Prowse, the direct representative of the Bank of New South Wales, whose subsidiary is Australian Guarantee Corporation, has been placed on this Corporation as a result of the Government's recent decisions. It is interesting to note that in every stage of Australia 's development, where population and growth have accelerated excessive speculation in land and land development has appeared in New South Wales and in particular in Victoria. 
Honourable senators might care to examine at some time an interesting book written by a Miss Sandercock and published recently in Victoria. It deals with various land scandals there and with the way in which the ordinary people of that State have been fleeced as a result of activities carried out in conjunction with conservative governments and land development companies. We know how in recent times the Victorian Government has been plagued by the misuse of the resources made available in the form of Federal funds for the establishment of land commissions- the Housing Corporation in Victoria- to realise the objective of the Whitlam Government to provide land at a reasonable rate, free of the speculative private gain factors which have been a characteristic of New South Wales and Victorian conservative governments from the last century to the present time. 
This legislation seeks to abolish the Consultative Council which hitherto was composed of 1 6 members and which, to use the terms of the second reading speech of the Minister, is to be abolished because it causes friction within the community. I put it that it is a good thing that we we have advisory councils operating at the community level, particularly in the case of AlburyWodonga, because it gives the ordinary citizen an opportunity to understand what is happening to his region, and enables him to put forward ideas to the public instrumentality involved, in this case the Corporation. It is an example of participatory democracy, which I believe should be the cornerstone upon which governments operate in respect of all development that takes place in regions throughout Australia. 
During the years that I served in local government I set out deliberately to establish citizen groups to assist in the town planning of the big shire of which I had the honour to be leader for nine years. I set out to involve citizens in advising the council on the way in which development ought to proceed within the municipal boundaries. I am pleased to say that the Whitlam Government adopted that approach, not because of my experience but because of the general principle of citizens participating in these matters. The growth centres that we hope ultimately will appear at Albury-Wodonga will change materially the living conditions a well as the environment of those two important cities. Therefore it is proper that Albury-Wodonga should not have the concept imposed upon it from above but should be provided with an opportunity for its citizens in an advisory capacity, and in a debating and argumentative capacity, to participate in the decisions that ought to be made in respect of the region in which they live. We make no apologies for defending the principle that governments ought not just to dictate to citizens what should happen within their region but ought to set out to establish the structures and institutions that will enable citizens to participate and to understand the motivations of the Commonwealth Government with respect to AlburyWodonga and what was in mind with respect to the co-operation of the Victorian and New South Wales State governments. It is only on the basis of such co-operation and good will that citizens will accept changes in planning concepts. It is only by co-operation that the private sector will respond to the encouragement that governments give in respect of these matters, and it is only by co-operation that three different governments can produce a finished product that will make Albury-Wodonga- or in a broader sense, decentralisation- a living reality in respect to the strategies being pursued by the Federal Government. lt is another manifestation of this Government's elitist approach that it has abolished this citizens' group because there was friction and debate and differences of opinion regarding the way in which the advisory committee sought to convey its views and represent the opinions of the citizens of Albury and Wodonga on the subsequent development of that important project. The Commonwealth took the initiative to establish the Corporation and the advisory committee precisely because it was Commonwealth Government initiative that had made the impact on our major cities which created the problems of demand for land and over-centralisation. The policies pursued by national governments and to some extent by State governments have contributed to the problem. Yet these manifestations, which have been much more evident in the 1970s than they were in the 1960s and 1950s, need to have the understanding and the involvement of ordinary citizens so that they might comprehend the reasons why governments have to take the actions that they have taken with respect to decentralisation. Decentralisation becomes an integral part of the policy of stopping the urban blight or the urban spread. We have all recognised that the tremendous, unplanned growth of our capital cities in the post-war years has been to the detriment of citizens, to the detriment of public authorities, and to the detriment of the environment. Government action is necessarycoming too late, perhaps, but better late than never- to try to redress the grave mistakes or omissions that have been characteristic of conservative governments in the post-war years. 
It is a matter for great regret that this Government has taken steps to reduce the Commonwealth's financial involvement and commitment on the other side of the coin as far as urban development is concerned- the pursuit of an active policy of decentralisation, not as a gimmick but in a way that provides opportunities for accommodation and jobs in an environment that is far better than the congestion which is a characteristic of our major cities. The way in which this Government has applied itself to decentralisation and to Albury-Wodonga shows how hypocritical it has been in its support for not only the principles of growth centres but also urban and regional communities. It flies in the face of the commitment which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made in his policy speech of 27 November 1975, when he said: 
We will continue urban programs. We are the people who can work with State and local Government to overcome the problems caused by rapid growth in the cities and in new expanding suburbs. 
If we examine the Budgets for every year since then we see that there have been major cuts in Federal funding of growth centres. Now the Government has taken the next step to further reduce the effectiveness and involvement of the local citizens in the Albury-Wodonga Corporation. We know that the Prime Minister has dismantled most of the urban programs that were entered into by the Whitlam Labor Government. 
He has set about implementing their complete destruction. Very few of those programs remain intact. We know the disastrous position that exists in north Queensland and the OrangeBathurst area as a result of the policies that have been pursued by this Government. Those policies are fundamental. What this Government is doing in respect of this Corporation, and what it will obviously do in respect of all other similar decentralisation projects, is to bring into the planning a greater involvement of private rather than public funds. That is the concept which it supports. 
As we well know,  Mr Fraser  's new federalism has meant the withdrawal of the Australian Government from any real inter-relationship between State and local government in urban and regional programs. I invite honourable senators to look at the commitment of the Labor Government to decentralisation. It had a policy of anticentralisation, of anti-centralism, because for so long Liberal Party Governments had allowed market forces to dictate the development of even greater centralisation in our capital cities. More than 60 per cent of migrants who came to Australia between the end of World War II and 1972, a period of over 25 years, settled in the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. It was that overcentralisation which created the real problem and provided the basis for land prices to spiral and rocket. We had to examine the overall programs in an endeavour to achieve some sanity in the development of our cities and to raise the standard of living within our urban communities. That is what the Labor Government set about trying to do in 1 972. 
The average population growth in Australia between 1950 and 1970 was 1.9 per cent, representing an increase of 1.1 per cent by natural growth and .8 per cent by immigration. If our population had continued to grow at that rate from the 1970s through to the turn of the century we would at that point have had 23 million people. Taking the figure for 1972 as a base, even if we were equal to the task of achieving decentralisation and could slow the growth of our major cities, the population would increase by a little over one million. If we look at other countries and at what they sought to do in this regard we note the very active policy that was carried out by the Labour Government of the post-war years in the United Kingdom. To some extent it was pursued by the conservative governments in the intervening years. That country had the best achievement of any country. The Government of the United Kingdom was able to slow up the population growth of its major cities by about 1.25 million. If we could achieve that situation in Australia between 1972 and the year 2000 we would have to house about nine million or 10 million people in our existing cities. What a horrible picture it is for the average Australian to contemplate- that in our major cities we would have such an increase in population and congestion. It would simply be madness because, on the basis of the post-war experience, we know that most of those people would reside in Sydney and Melbourne. 
The former Labor Government of this country wished to carry out several programs. First, we had to slow down the population increase. We wanted to work towards an objective of 1.1 per cent increase or thereabouts from natural growth and immigration combined. More importantly, we wanted the cities to be rational places in which to live. It was essential to establish active decentralisation, not merely as an objective of a political party, as part of its policy, but in actual legislative form. We wanted to achieve that in several ways. We wanted to try to stop the overcentralisation of what we call the central business districts of Sydney, Melbourne and other major capital cities. We wanted to develop in the cities what we call sub-metropolitan centre areas. We wanted to build within our cities rational public transport systems, replacing those that now exist and which, in the year 1979, everybody recognises to be nothing more than hopeless messes. At present, in the morning, public transport travels empty from the cities, returns to the cities packed with people and, at night, does the reverse. In other words, our cities are geared to a peak-load system. 
Our Labor Government obtained agreement with some State governments for the implementation of policies which would have changed that picture. Our first important initiative was the formation of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. Our study revealed that there were in the central business district of Melbourne 18,000 too many Commonwealth public servants. The great proportion of these would have been diverted to selected sub-metropolitan centres in Melbourne, as well as to other selected growth centres such as Geelong and AlburyWodonga. That was the pattern that we would have adopted. Some Commonwealth public servants would have been transferred to other selected growth centres such as Bathurst-Orange. We know that all of that came to a disastrous end in 1975 when the program ceased. The free market forces and the inadequate and incorrect policies and philosophies of this Government came into operation. Those policies have been continued. The present Government has undermined completely the whole program of anticentralisation and has also scuttled what it calls selective decentralisation in every shape and form. 
After two years of negotiations between the Commonwealth public servants, the planners and the Hamer Government of Victoria, we were able to reach agreement on where development in Melbourne should occur. By June 1976 the Commonwealth had invested $90m in AlburyWodonga. Of that amount $79m went directly to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. We invested in land, just like the private sector did, just like the banks did, and just like their subsidiary companies- the Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd, Associated Securities Ltd and the Finance Corporation of Australia- did. The latter two, of course, invested so badly that they are in dire economic straits today. That shows that the private sector is not competent and able properly to carry out that task, which is the task of governments. 
We invested in land so that we could stop the land speculators. Honourable senators opposite support land speculation. They were supporters of Associated Securities Ltd, the Finance Corporation of Australia in Adelaide and the enormous speculation in land. These organisations tried to reap extra profits from the young people of this country but eventually, of course they showed their incompetence. They have had their fingers burned. But somebody has to pay for that mistake. Someone has to pay for the misdemeanours of the private sector speculators. That is now reflected in the tremendous price which young people have to pay these days for land in order to build a home for themselves and their families. We now know that it is becoming increasingly impossible for young people to get anywhere near the $20,000 that is required in round figures in order to purchase a block of land, least of all to erect a cottage of some sort on it and to furnish it. 
Commitments to the Albury-Wodonga growth centre were made by the Labor Government when it was in office. Up to 30 June that investment was $90m. The Fraser Government, in its first year of office, made only $19m available to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. In the same year it made available $1,850,000 to local government in the area. It had made many millions of dollars available previously because it knew of the strain that was being placed on the local councils. One of the reasons why the local councils are to be represented on the Corporation by their mayors is that the growth that has already taken place in Albury-Wodonga has placed tremendous stress and strain upon the resources of local government instrumentalities. The Prime Minister said that the Government would continue its urban programs. Did it do so? In 1977-78 it cut back the funds to the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation to $5m. What did it give to local government in the area? It did not give local government one extra penny. In the following year, 1978-79, the Government allocated a further $5m- a mere pittance- to the Development Corporation to carry out its programs. Again, it made no money available to local government. 
The amendment which the Opposition has moved represents a constructive criticism of the Bill. At least the Government has not completely destroyed the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. For that, I suppose, we can be thankful. To do so would be a repudiation of the agreement that it entered into with the New South Wales and Victorian governments. 
When a federal Labor government is re-elected it will be able to give the Development Corporation the spirit it needs to carry out its programs. I suggest to those Government senators who are interjecting that they should talk to the citzens of AlburyWodonga and see what they think about this Government. Every time I have visited those cities I have been asked by the Press, by the leading citizens ofthe towns, by the Corporation, and by the businessmen whether the Federal Government will maintain its interest and its commitment to that area. When the Labor Government was in office from 1972 to 1975, it entered into the spirit of active decentralisation in that region, as did many other people. Unfortunately those people are now seeing a meek and mild government that would like to cut its losses and get right out of an active decentralisation policy in that region. I hope that the few remarks I have made in regard to the Development Corporation will lead to a better understanding of the Corporation in the Parliament. Sometimes I wonder whether I can get it through the thick-headedness of some members of the government parties. I can only hope that by continually raising these matters in the Parliament a little bit of light will be shed some day upon the thinking of Government senators and that they will recognise that this Government is not meeting its commitment and is undermining public confidence in the AlburyWodonga project. 
I would only hope that the debate will ultimately have the objective of ensuring that AlburyWodonga will again take off, that it will be a success and that it will show to the over-centralised areas of Sydney and Melbourne that decentralisation with Federal Government backing will work, that it is for the Federal Government to have the initiative to back up the resources and to have the guts, the courage and the commitment to support a decentralisation program and, in this case, the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. Only then will decentralisation as an integral part of proper economic and social development in this country succeed against the over-centralisation and the greed of the free market forces which have created the sort of problem that we are seeking to arrest. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government aware that the former Governor-General of Papua New Guinea,  Sir John  Guise, M.P., has recently spoken out against Indonesia's expansionist designs towards Papua New Guinea? Is the Government aware of reports that the Papua New Guinea Opposition politician, Miss Josephine Abaijah has suggested the integration of Papua New Guinea with a Federation of Greater Indonesia? Has the Government any knowledge of the Indonesian plan called 'Operation Bird of Paradise' which aims to prepare the ground for the eventual absorption of Papua New Guinea into Indonesia, a plan which sets a timetable for this development from 1979 to 1984? Does the Government unequivocally support the absolute integrity and independence of Papua New Guinea? Has the Government taken any special steps, either financially or militarily, to provide extra support for the independence of Papua New Guinea, particularly in view of the degree of political instability in Indonesia? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
It is gratifying that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has moved with some alacrity to endorse the general recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. I think it is of some importance to deal with the matter with speed and to give endorsement to the manner in which the Commissioner has carried out his duties as expressed in the Act of this Parliament. He has applied himself in the terms of the Act. Although we may have some misgivings perhaps about the Act or feel that the Act does not go sufficiently in the direction of redressing the vexed problem of land rights in Australia, it appears from the Minister's statement that the Commissioner has acted with a degree of compassion, has applied some integrity to his obligations and has taken into consideration some of the moral factors which Aboriginal land claims have presented to him. I think it is worth noting that the Northern Territory Government has not acted on all occasions in the spirit of the Commonwealth legislation, although, as the Minister has indicated in the statement he has just presented, finally the position of the Northern Territory Government became a little more amenable and acceptable from the point of view of the national Parliament. 
Unfortunately from time to time some differences have been expressed between what we regard as our obligations with respect to land rights in the Northern Territory and the perhaps more short-sighted and subjective views that have been expressed by the Northern Territory Government which perhaps looks at development and its narrow perspectives somewhat in contradiction to the stated strategies which have been followed by the national Parliament on an all party basis. Be that as it may, the Government through this Minister, in bypassing the narrow, short-sighted views of the Northern Territory Government and in adopting the principles expressed by the Commissioner, has taken the right steps, as we see it. Of course, in many respects it leaves unresolved the very vexed issue of national parks and the alienation which the Commissioner has suggested should be taken into consideration. 
One of the important developments of recent years has been the development of the conservation movement in this country. It is a real people's movement which began at the grass roots level and sought to bring about, through the enactment of government legislation, a recognition of the need for us to apply ourselves to conserving our resources and our natural environment. But when we are dealing with matters of land tenure in the Northern Territory, it has to be said that the Aboriginal communities are the original conservationists. I do not think that anyone could ever claim that the Aboriginal communities have not applied themselves to proper principles of conservation. They have regarded land in the proper light; they have regarded land as part of their home environment. They would find it difficult to comprehend why they should not be allowed to continue to have access to and be interested in areas of land which we have designated as national parks and alienated land. Ever since Aborigines have lived in Australia they have regarded land and conservation as one and the same thing. 
Since white civilisation came to this continent we have seen many examples of our acting improperly in conservation matters. So the Opposition supports the Minister in his endeavours in the matter of land tenure in that, to a limited extent, we have made moves in respect of Uluru and its associated areas. Perhaps that can be considered part payment of the enormous debt we owe to the original inhabitants of our continent. Whatever conflict developed over the past 200 years or so developed as a result of our seizure of their lands. We look with a great deal of shame at some of the actions which were taken by our ancestors. We not only seized the Aborigines' lands, their homes, but also massacred the tribes in the process. It has taken a great deal of time for us to provide some rectification of the tremendous problems created. 
We are dealing with a group of people who have been alienated from their land as a result of the arrival of Western civilisation. We are dealing with people who have shown that they have very good values in respect of land and conservation issues. We are dealing with a group of people who over the centuries in which we have been here have shown themselves to be very patient, very courteous and very retiring people, people who are not aggressive by nature, people who are very co-operative and people who find it difficult to comprehend our system of values as we seek to rectify the effects of the great crimes we committed against their race over the 200 years in which we have been here. 
The least we can do is to take the steps which are being taken, to consider the matter of the alienation of their lands and to seek to rectify the problem in the areas in which matters still have to be resolved; that is, the areas to which the Aborigines still lay claim, particularly the areas which we now regard as having tourist and development potential. The least we can do is to give very serious consideration to the movement seeking a treaty of commitment which has now developed among our communities. We need to understand the motivation of people associated with that movement. I was pained to read in recent times comments made in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by a former editor, Guy Harriott, who criticised attempts being made by well-meaning people in our communities to take even more definite steps to repay our debt to the Aboriginal people. 
Therefore the movement which is developing and is requesting a treaty of commitment with the Aboriginal people which will recognise our total agreement to rearranging our relationships with the Aboriginal people is a movement which ought to have the support of all right-thinking people in the community and should not be looked upon as a movement seeking a platitudinous or meek type of arrangement. It is an arrangement which we have an obligation to support and its proposed treaty ought to be accepted as a very small part payment for what we have done to the people in our country. In the Northern Territory we have an opportunity to take energetic steps to repay the Aboriginal people. In that way, the steps which the Minister has taken in this important area are seen by the Opposition as being steps in the right direction.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the criticism by the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts of the Public Service Board's attitude to technology, its failure to consider employment consequences and its misuse of public funds. I refer also to the unilateral decision of the same Public Service Board to spend public funds on newspaper advertisements during periods of industrial disputation and to other independent decisions by the same Board. I ask: What steps does the Government propose should be taken to bring the Public Service Board under the jurisdiction of the Parliament so that its authoritarian and undemocratic procedures are supervised by the elected representatives of the people? 
The Opposition will not oppose this Bill, but the Bill throws light on the present Government's convoluted priorities. As each day, each month and each year go by it is becoming increasingly clear that the Government's Budget policies, economic policies, social welfare policies and federalism policies are not producing the sort of response sought from the Australian community. Certainly they are not inspiring the regeneration of the economy which was supposed to have been the strategy of this Government when it was elected to office in 1 975. When looking at this piece of legislation we should contrast, on the one hand, the massive sum of money being taken from the ordinary motorist in the form of regressive petrol tax and, on the other hand, the declining amount of revenue being channelled into road works. If I read the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party in the House of Representatives to the motion that the Bill be read a second time in that place, it will give a clear indication of our objection to this Government's policies as they relate to State and local government and to road programs. I quote the amendment that was moved as follows: 
Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the level of funds provided in the Bill for road purposes in 1 979-80- 
demonstrates that the Commonwealth's share of expenditure on road construction and maintenance, expressed in real terms, has seriously declined since the Fraser Government came to power and will further decline, whereas Federal revenue from fuel taxes and levies has more than doubled in the same period and will further increase; 
ignores the urgent necessity to accelerate road construction and maintenance programs designed to improve the quality of the Australian road system as a vital component of the national economy; 
fails to pursue policies designed to increase employment opportunities, and 
does not develop a responsible transport energy conservation program '. 
By this Bill the Government intends to reduce in real terms the funding going to the States for roadworks. Of course, this only continues the trend of the last few years. 
The Bureau of Transport Economics has reported that over the five-year period from 1974-75 to 1978-79 the Australian Government's expenditure on road construction and maintenance has fallen by about 6 per cent in real terms. This shortfall in Federal funding has forced the State and local governments to make up the difference by diverting badly needed funds from elsewhere. This makes a mockery of the Government's claims to have a co-operative federalism scheme and it makes a mockery of the Government's proposals to fund local government so that local government can adequately carry out its areas of responsibility. As a result of changes in the formulas, brought about by the reduction of Federal funds, the States have had to place more financial and maintenance responsibility in the area of local government. If the States are to maintain the level of road construction and maintenance which was hitherto possible, they have to divert State funds from other areas of public responsibilities. 
In 1977, in referring to the principal Act, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  told the House of Representatives that the Government had promised the States that it would maintain, in real terms, the value of grants to them in the coming financial years 1978-79 and 1979-80. My colleague  Senator Wriedt  has just referred to the cuts in real terms, as well as in actual funding, that have occurred so far as education is concerned. The Government, since it came to office, has made serious cut-backs in education funding and now makes them in respect to road construction. However, it has indulged in subterfuge by basing its increases on movements in a new indicator, the implicit price deflator, in respect of private investment in other buildings and construction. But this deflator is not accurate. It is but another example of how the Government's economists use jargon and new indicators to give effect to the fundamental philosophy of the Government that public sector spending should be cut back. 
The Government, in good faith, should have adjusted funding in line with the actual price increases in road construction and maintenance. For example, in the years 1970 to 1975 on average the road price index rose by some 13.6 per cent. In the same period the consumer price index rose by an average of 4.9 per cent and the implicit gross fixed capital expenditure deflator rose by 10.6 per cent. But what is the real position? Road construction costs, whether in respect of maintenance or construction, have risen at a much faster rate for a variety of reasons, including price rises in bituminous products following increases in oil prices and, indeed, labour and other costs. 

 Road News, the journal of the Australian Road Federation, has realised the duplicity of this Government and has taken up the cry that we are hearing from more and more sources as the Government's term of office expires. In a recent article headed 'Lies, lies, lies' in the September 1979 issue, we read: 
It is a fact that over the last few years promises and performance in the area of road funding have continued to diverge. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General in his own right, and also as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is he aware that during school holiday periods the main picture theatre chains allow the screening of cigarette advertisements with what are specifically children's movies? What is the Government's policy in regard to the regulation of the advertising of cigarettes? Does the Minister feel satisfied with the operation of that policy? Does the Government approve of the showing of major cigarette advertisements with G-rated films such as  Sleeping Beauty  and  The Wiz,  which is a modern version of  The Wizard of OZ. 
Yes, I wish to second the motion. In seconding the motion so ably moved by  Senator Bishop,  I think we have to recognise that the Government is in somewhat of a predicament as a result of the proposals it has placed before the House of Representatives and for which it now seeks the endorsement of the Australian Senate. An unprecedented situation has developed since the Government contemplated its legislation. For the first time in Australia's history, those associated with judicial inquiry into industrial affairs have seen fit to meet while the Parliament is considering this legislation. Never before have judges and Conciliation and Arbitration Commissioners decided to meet while the Parliament was giving consideration to this sort-of farreaching legislation. They have now taken this unique step of setting aside their somewhat judicial role in order to look at the legislation because they believe its far-reaching implications require their consideration before the Parliament finally assents to or amends the legislation. That step ought to be examined by the Government if it is concerned with looking at the legislation from the point of view of reviewing what it has proposed. 
The Government is asking the Senate to approve this legislation while there is a meeting of those concerned with the administration of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That Act has been in operation for many years and is in accordance with the Australian Constitution. This amending legislation will change the format and procedures of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and, as a consequence, it has aroused the interest, concern and deliberations of those who have been given the responsibility of adjudicating under the Act and implementing the decisions of the national Parliament. It is quite coincidental that some 50 years ago a conservative government and a conservative Prime Minister,  Sir Stanley  Bruce, sought to intervene and interfere in the processes of arbitration. We all know what happened as a result of this intervention. He was subsequently driven from public office because of his endeavours to interfere in the due processes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
If the Senate has any regard for its review role it will consider very seriously the case that has been put so ably by my colleague  Senator 
Bishop. He has spent a lifetime of service not only in this place but also in the trade union movement.  Senator Bishop  has presented a sensible proposition to the Senate. Discussion is taking place in the conciliation and arbitration area, the judges and the conciliation commissioners are meeting, and we should bear in mind what has been said by  Sir Richard  Kirby, a former  President  of the Commission. The present  President  of the Commission,  Sir John  Moore, is involved in these discussions in Sydney today. Another judge has indicated his concern about the Government's interference and intervention in this area, as have the commissioners of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, most of whom have been appointed by governments of the same political persuasion as the Government that is endeavouring to force this issue through the Senate. In a non-partisan way and, if one likes, in an all-party way, those men and women have decided that they should sit down in conference and examine this very farreaching piece of legislation, that they should have a formal meeting for this purpose for the first time in the history of industrial legislation in this country. That such steps should be taken indicates how important it is that the Senate ought to agree to the motion which has been moved by  Senator Bishop. 
There is no evidence of support for the farreaching legislation upon which we seek to adjourn debate. There is no evidence of support from either the employers' organisations or even the media, as various editorial comments have indicated in recent times. There is no evidence of support from those who have been charged by the national Parliament through Executive Council- I refer to some 30 members of the judiciary- with the responsibility of putting into effect industrial relations aspects of national Parliament decisions. There is no evidence of support for the proposition within the Australian community. The Opposition asks the Senate not to proceed with the debate until it has received the views- may be the recommendations- of those persons who have been appointed by governments past and present for the purpose of carrying into effect the industrial relations aspects of the Australian Constitution. As such a thing has never happened before, and as there is no outstanding public demand for the legislation, we humbly submit to the Senate that the very simple process that we have suggested on this occasion be agreed to. The legislation should be set aside for a day or so for the purpose of considering the deliberations of those who have been charged with the responsibility of administering the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I would wish to raise a number of matters in respect to the various clauses we are now discussing in Committee, but, due to the attitude that has been taken by the Government- the Attorney-General in particular- in gagging the debate and thereby preventing honourable senators from having reasonable time to deal with these matters clause by clause, I have to forgo my right to do so. I just want to indicate that I am doing so under protest. In no way does that mean that the Opposition condones the disgraceful behaviour that has been engaged in by the Government this evening. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: In the event of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd passing from the control of the present directors as a result of share raids on the stock exchange and substantial changes in shareholding, will the Government consider renegotiating the current two-airline agreement in the interests of true competition between Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett in respect of price, flight times and service to commuters? 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill before the Senate forms an essential part of the Fraser Government 's economic strategy and, as such, it has to be seen in that light. The provisions of the Bill are the most serious in a long line of repressive industrial legislation brought forward by this Government. There has not been a session of this Parliament since the Fraser Government came to power in which we have not had legislation designed in some way or another to restrict the legitimate rights of the workers of this country and of the trade union movement. This particular piece of legislation is not hard to understand because it puts into legislative effect the Government's long campaign of vilification against the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. On every occasion of a national wage case the Federal Government has placed evidence before the Commission and has argued through eminent counsel against the flow-on or the consideration of the inflationary trends of the time. When the judges, on the basis of the evidence before them from the employers and employees and on the basis of the Government's own submissions, have rejected or in some way amended the Government's propositions, we have seen members of the Government from the Prime Minister down-  Mr Anthony, Mr Street  and other leading members of the Government- vilify and criticise those who are charged with the responsibility of considering in an impartial fashion the reasons why some increase in salaries should be awarded to the Australian work force. 
Having criticised the umpires and got nowhere, the Government is now about to put the umpires in a straightjacket and to interfere and intervene in the whole process of conciliation and arbitration that has been with this country since the Constitution was adopted at the beginning of the century. There is no doubt in my mind that this piece of legislation will be challenged in the court because the purpose of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to act for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes, whereas this piece of legislation will, as has been so eloquently stated by the opponents of the legislation, do nothing but exacerbate them, widen them and create industrial chaos in this country. 
It is a matter of great regret that despite the measured opposition by those who have been involved in the industrial movement in a full time capacity, those who have been involved in understanding industrial legislation and despite the attempts of the Opposition to suggest to the Government the unworkability of this piece of legislation, it goes without saying that the whole process of parliamentary democracy and those opposing voices will be unheeded. The Government will proceed, as it has on so many occasions, to fail to listen to the other point of view. We have this very unusual step of those charged with the responsibility of industrial relations in this country- I am talking now of the Commission itself- making representations, sitting around a table making protests. Then we have the words of the Prime Minister saying that regardless of what is being said, regardless of the submissions, the Government is still going to proceed on its way. It is no wonder that parliamentary democracy is under challenge in this country. 1 refer again to the last paragraph of this statement that was put down in Parliament today by  Mr Street  and which was referred to by previous speakers in the Opposition.  Mr Street  said: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. I replied that the legislation would be dealt with in the normal way, but that the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate. 

 Senator Chipp has handled the expression 'normal way ' quite adequately to show what a farcical situation we have reached in the parliamentary processes. Who does  Mr Street  think he is fooling? Does he think he is fooling  Sir John  Moore? Does he think he is fooling the Australian people? Does he think he is fooling the Parliament or the Opposition when he says 'the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate'? Is the Senate to act in some way as a House of Review and present arguments that will alter the legislation, or will the Senate act in some way that will take into account the public feeling that exists outside the Parliament? We know that the Fuhrer has already determined that this Bill will be passed through the Senate today or in the early hours of tomorrow morning. The decision has been made by the Prime Minister in the usual dictatorial way. He has already said that he is not interested in the views of  Mr Justice  Staples or the views of the conciliation commissioners and he is obviously not interested in the views of  Sir John  Moore because, in fact, the Bill is going to be dealt with by the Senate in the normal way. The 'normal way' will be acts of attrition during the early hours of the morning with the guillotine and the gag as indeed happened in the House of Representatives. 
What has actually happened in respect to this Government's anti-union legislation? It promised in 1975 that if it was elected to office it would introduce proposals for tax and wage indexation. It has reneged on both those propositions. I will not canvass what it did in respect to tax. We have already had that argument with respect to the Budget. The Government committed itself to a policy of wage indexation in accordance with the upward trend of the consumer price index. Yet on every occasion, bar one, that it has made its submissions to the Commission, it has sought to have a reduction in the amount of wages to be awarded having regard to the level of the consumer price index. 
What is the result of this? The result is that the trade union movement has had to act on occasions independently of the operation of the Commission itself. Why is it that the Fraser Government has come down with such a hard line on working people fighting for their living standards? Does it really believe that wages are too high? Yes, I think it does believe that wages are too high. That was said by some Government senators. We had, on the other hand, a statement by  Senator Watson  that there are certain skills within the Australian work force that are not adequately paid. This legislation will ensure that they will never be adequately paid. The processes that will be set in motion in respect of this piece of legislation will see that, when there is a proper work value case organised and considered in the judicial atmosphere of conciliation, steps will be taken, should this Government not like that decision, to see that the decision is not put into effect. Should industrial action then be taken in order to ratify or support the decision arrived at by the Commission, the processes will be set in motion for the deregistration of the union. This, in a period in which, beyond any shadow of doubt, real wages have declined on an average of about $ 1 7 a week as a result of the direct intervention by this Government in the wage fixing processes of the Arbitration Commission, by bringing pressure to bear upon the Commission on every occasion on which it has sought to deal with a national wage case or when it has sought to deal with a specific application, taking into account the changing values of the work force. Because the trade union movement wants to assert its right in these circumstances to withdraw its labour, a process which has been fought for and which it will continue to fight for, regardless of the repressive legislation, this Government will learn to its detriment that it cannot legislate to stop industrial disputes. 
Let us look at what happened on the last occasion when a government sought to do this in a somewhat similar set of circumstances in the United Kingdom, when the Heath Government sought to intervene and interfere in the due processes of wage fixation. That Government was driven from office, as indeed this Government will be driven from office on this very issue if it attempts to put into effect the confrontation aspects rather than the conciliation aspects of our arbitration system. It is part of the so-called Liberal ideology that they support the right to strike, and they support the right of trade unions to operate. But I should like the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street), Senator Watson  or any other Government member to tell me of the occasion or the issue in which they have regarded as legitimate any industrial disputation. They cannot show one occasion where they have accepted or understood the reasons why workers had to withdraw their labour and suffer in the process, a great monetary suffering as well as a personal suffering. We have never heard them say one word about other people who withdraw their labour. For example, there has never been any legislation to deal with doctors, and we had such a situation only this year when doctors went before  Mr Justice  Ludeke to establish a fee for service. The public was not privy to the evidence that was placed before the Tribunal by the Australian Medical Association, but a fee was fixed. But not one doctor out of 100 is now sticking to the fee that was fixed as a result of the decision of the Tribunal. There has been no word of criticism, no legislation, no attempt to control that irresponsibility. Yet we hear a lot about irresponsible unions, about the Pommy shop stewards, about workers holding the country to ransom, about wage restraints- all those phrases that flow so glibly from the lips of Government members. 
The conservative forces in this country operate on the basis of developing some sort of bogy. If we look back over the last 30 years in which they have had, with one exception, uninterrupted sway, in the 1950s the bogy was the communists. It was the communists who were responsible for all of the ills of society. In the 1960s it was the hordes of Asia. It was the Chinese who were going to come down in their little boats across the ocean to Australia, and that was the justification for the Government's immoral involvement in the war in Vietnam. In the 1970s, now that we have established good relations with the People's Republic of China, it is the trade unionists. It is the workers that the Government seeks to try to portray as being the real enemies of the Australian people. The Government is trying to turn one section of the Australian people against another. 
This piece of legislation is not only illogical, but also it is crude, it is unworkable and it is confrontationist. It is a dastardly piece of legislation which will do nothing to bring about any sort of understanding in the Australian community about the way in which our wage fixing processes should work. But we are going to be confronted with its passage because we have in the Parliament the tyranny of the majority, the inability of the minority of the members on that side of this chamber to do more than carry out the behest of their leader. It is no wonder that people have referred to it as Draconian and totalitarian in its overall presentation. The legislation seeks to change the emphasis on conciliation. It seeks to substitute confrontation for conciliation. It seeks to say that there is no legitimacy in the process of wage fixing. It seeks to say that there is no legitimacy on the part of those millions of people in Australia who belong to trade unions. 
When we have this unique experience of a judge putting in writing his views about the constitutionality and the impropriety of the legislation- surely a process that is available to any member of the Australian community and to his fellow judges- we have the underhand activity of the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and the Prime Minister, seeking to score cheap political capital out of a courageous attempt being made by one man to express a contrary point of view. That is all he has sought to do, to express a contrary point of view to this neo-fascist government, this dictatorial government which wants to criticise everybody in the Australian community except itself. The Government enjoys no support of the Australian community for this piece of legislation. Where is the editorial that can be quoted which says that the people give unqualified support to this piece of legislation? Where are the instances of judges who have said that they disagree with what  Mr Justice  Staples has said, or what  Sir John  Moore has said? Where is the conciliation commissioner who says 'I do not want to be associated with the views which have been expressed to this Government'? Where is the trade union leader who says he supports this piece of legislation? Where is the community involvement in the process of representation to this Government, and where is the voice of the employers in this matter? 
Will the Government produce the word or the support of the Employers' Federation in respect to this matter? No. It cannot. It will not produce it because it cannot, because even the employers are mute about this matter. They know it is wrong as indeed they have said on so many occasions at seminars that I have had the opportunity to attend. I have read the speeches of employers' representatives in which they have pointed to the need to maintain the conciliation and arbitration system and have said that no government legislation can overcome the areas of industrial disputation. That means that this Government is unable to produce evidence to back up the horrendous type of legislation which it has put before the Parliament, and it is unable to comprehend the lessons of history. So rather than turn to settlement of industrial disputes, we will go into the area of coercion rather than consent. We will see a situation develop where the whole trade union movement, whatever category we like to place it in, will stand together against this piece of repressive legislation. 
If honourable senators know anything at all about the trade union movement- I do not like using labels; I do not like putting people into different sorts of categories in respect of their political position in the industrial movement- if they look at the disputes which have taken place in recent times in my own State, they would know the extent of those disputes. We have the tally clerks of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia in dispute. We have members of the breweries, who are members of the Federated Liquor and Allied Industries Employees Union of Australia in dispute. We have members of the Australian Workers Union involved in the grain elevators dispute, and we have the strike that has taken place at the Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. No matter which union or class of workers is involved in industrial disputes, in no way can one put an idealogical label on that union or class of workers. In no way can one say that action by them is anything more than a spontaneous and justified endeavour on behalf of the workers in those industries- I picked out only three or four industries- for the purpose of determining their economic interest. 
Because the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its entirety, its justices and commissioners, knows and understands the process of industrial law- they know the scorethey have seen fit to make representations to the Government. The Parliament has been insulted by this mealy-mouthed one page statement from  Sir John  Moore through the person of  Mr Street.  Discussion took place for several hours and we have been given a statement containing half a dozen paragraphs. That is the way this Executive and this Government operates. The Government has no respect for the parliamentary institution and it has no respect for public opinion. No wonder the Government always has only about 40 per cent support from the Australian public. The Government has ignored the very measured advice of  Sir Richard  Kirby. I understand that in the last 20 years we have had two presidents of the Commission. We have had  Sir John  Moore making representations to the Government, and  Sir Richard  Kirby, a most highly respected former  president  of the Commission, has given advice to the Government, the Parliament and the Australian people.  Sir Richard  Kirby was appointed by a conservative government. As reported in the  Age  of 22 September this year, he said that the provisions which attempt to bind the Commission are probably invalid constitutionally. He also stated that he is quite certain that the new measures, far from moderating industrial disputation, will lead to greater industrial unrest. I will quote him so that I am not accused of stressing this point too much. He said: 
Any legislation which requires the Commission to act in a particular way or prohibits it from acting in a particular way m the prevention or settlement of an industrial dispute is a very bad thing. 
He went on to identify the prime motivation behind this repressive and undemocratic legislation. He said this: 
The Government at the moment would dearly like to put a ceiling on wages but it has got no legal power to do so. 
The Government is not game to go to the Australian people and ask for the power to set wages; it knows what the Australian electorate would say in a referendum. It has tried to stand over the Industrial Commission. Leading members of this Government have trenchantly criticised every determination made by the Commission. The Government wants to cut wages further despite the undisputed fact that real wages have declined substantially over the past few years. 
Let us look at the main provisions of the Bill. Clause 3 requires commissioners to consult with the relevant  deputy president  before making or varying an award with respect to wages or conditions. Firstly, there is the problem of denning consultation. Are we to assume that commissioners do no discuss their work with one another? We have the commissioner's own testimony that they do. It is to be assumed that in the Bill 'consult' means that a  deputy president  can override the decision of a commissioner? In this case we must assume that the  deputy president,  who has not heard all the evidence presented in a case, knows better than the commissioner who has been sitting on it. Consider the situation in an industrial dispute.  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Chipp  also made this point. The commissioner would sit in judgment and listen to the points of view of the parties in dispute. Sometimes the commissioner would have to listen to a third point of view. This might take days. Then when the commissioner is prepared to make a decision on the basis of the evidence given he has to consult with someone who has not been sitting in on the proceedings and who knows nothing of either the subjective or objective facts in the case. 
Are we to believe this document laid down by  Mr Street?  He said that commissioners would be required to consult but would not be subject to direction by a  deputy president.  They are honeyed words, but that is not what the legislation says. Are there to be cases in the High Court of Australia every time there is a dispute to determine whether the word 'consult' means to say goodday or goodbye, or that there has to be consultation to the point where the views of the  deputy president  as against the determination or conclusion of the commissioner have to be considered? 
What a hopeless position this Government has got itself into. What are its reasons? The Minister for Industrial Relations in the other place has stated that the purpose of this provision is to eliminate inconsistencies in various rulings by commissioners. How in the name of heaven will that take place? Can we assume that Commissioner Smith will talk to Deputy President Brown and they will make a decision, and that then Commissioner Jones will talk to Commissioner Johnson and they will make a decision? Or, as one of my colleagues said in another debate, will it come back to one man having to sit in judgment on all of these matters? That demonstrates the absurdity and the inconsistency of this Government. Is there to be some absolute standard established by which all subsequent rulings are to be judged? Is the first such decision always to be the correct one? If this were the case then the Commission would have to abandon the long held principle of adjustments for changes in work value. 
Every day we talk about the changes taking place in our society and the technological changes that are on the horizon which, in a sense, will almost transform the whole industrial production process. Is the Government saying that ordinary people in Australia do not have the right to present their point of view about a dispute to a conciliation commissioner? 

 Senator Watson already has expressed his concern about the problems of relativity. He is concerned, as are many members of trade unions. Many skilled workers are not receiving adequate compensation for their long hours of study and the skills that they use in the work place. This piece of legislation will do nothing to redress that situation. In fact, it will worsen the situation. It probably will be the militant unions who will be concerned about the skilled workers who are currently underpaid, whether they be in the metal industry or in an industry where advanced technology and the skills associated with it have to be recognised, as we have seen in the recent dispute in the telecommunications industry, a dispute that has been with us over the past year or two. 
This Government has to recognise that it cannot put people into straitjackets. It cannot put the judges into straitjackets. It cannot put the commissioners into straitjackets. Sooner or later the Australian people will say: 'You are not going to put the Parliament into a straitjacket'. That is the message that one day the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, will get from the Senate. What does clause 4 of the Bill seek to do? It seeks to amend section 25 of the principal Act to divest the Commission of the power to award wages to workers on strike. The Minister calls the idea of payment for time lost on strike an 'outlandish concept'. A trade union official just indicated the circumstances upon which that concept and that process have been operative ever since there has been industrial relations. Every trade union official will tell us that. 
Anyone who has had anything to do with the industrial movement will tell us that the employer, on the basis of logical argument, will agree not only to rectify the issue that has caused the dispute, but will also pay for time lost in the process. Yet we have the Minister for Industrial Relations, who stands abroad the political scene in Australia pretending that he is a Liberal in the real sense of the word, not in the sense in which honourable senators opposite masquerade- they are really Conservatives; they are not Liberals-  Mr Street  says that it is an outlandish thing that we should want that to be taken into consideration. It that an indication of how much he knows about his portfolio? That would be an incident- and I am sure that  Senator Bishop  would agree with me- that occurs probably every week in some part of our country. It is obvious that this Bill was presented in the party room with a whole heap of rhetoric that mesmerised those few members of the Senate who might otherwise be regarded as Liberals, not Conservatives, and who are not prepared just to sit and listen. 
If we look at the way in which the debate has been conducted in this place so far we find that every minute of every hour the Opposition has had more members present in the Senate than the Government. Many times I have looked opposite and seen fewer Government members than there are fingers on one hand. Despite the eloquent and logical argument presented in this place and outside, the Government is not prepared to change its mind. The words of the Minister about outlandish concepts demonstrate the Minister's total ignorance of the conduct of industrial relations. This highlights how little Government members know about industrial relations. Yet they sit in judgment and make decisions. They are part of the decision-making process. It is a slur on the actions of the Commission in making such awards when industrial agreements are reached. The sorts of considerations to which I have referred are written into awards. It was  Sir Richard  Kirby who said that this provision is probably unconstitutional. 
Let us look at the facts about industrial relations. According to the figures on industrial disputes of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, wages caused a fraction more than 50 per cent of the disputes in 1978. Hours and conditions caused 7.8 per cent of the disputes. I ask honourable senators to note that managerial policy was the cause of 25.6 per cent of the industrial disputes. It is in the latter cases- that is, the cases where managerial policy has caused the disputes- that the Commission often rules that the workers should be paid for time lost while on strike. There is nothing wrong with that principle. This Bill ought to be rejected on that premise alone. But, of course, we know that it will not. This provision assumes that it is always the irresponsible action of employees that causes strikes and never the provocative actions of employers. 
Anyone who has any knowledge at all of industrial practice will say that the bosses often adopt the most provocative tactics which compel workers to strike to protect their positions. Workers gain very little by going on strike capriciously. They lose money. They do not get paid for it if it is on a matter affecting their wages and conditions. 
Let us look at another example- a coal mine which has just exploded, causing the loss of several lives. If the coal mine owners refuse to take precautions against further such occurrences and the miners go on strike, who is at fault? The passage of the clause to which I have referred will mean that miners will always suffer. There will be no way in which management can be penalised for its failure to deal with a safety issue. The clause forbids the Commission to award payments to workers engaged in an 'industrial dispute'. An industrial dispute can include bans, limitations and go-slows as well as strikes. This amendment does not specify. For example, the shipping clerks in Sydney may decide to ban the handling of work related to the sending of enriched uranium to the rulers of Chile, but carry on the bulk of their work as normal. Although they put in a full day's work, this clause could be used to deny them all remuneration. They may have a particular political viewpoint about the fascist regime in Chile. There is something pertinent in what  Mr Justice  Staples said when he stated: 
The Minister seeks to enrich employers by saving them from paying for what is done. 
There are many reasons why we should not be rushing this piece of legislation through the Senate. We have on numerous occasions been brought back to deal with industrial legislation. We were forced to sit for long hours a year or so ago during the dispute between Telecom Australia and the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association. What happened then? The Bill concerned was not proclaimed for months and months afterwards. Yet the Government is hell-bent on trying to push the Senate through a war of attrition, to deny us the right legitimately to debate this matter. The Parliament will be sitting until all hours of the morning. For what purpose? Neither the Minister nor any members of the Government has once suggested the reasons why it has to be dealt with today. Is something happening tomorrow? I am not aware of any major event taking place tomorrow, unless the Government is going to call an early general election. I would warn the Government about that. In the South Australian election, my side of politics made an immature judgment and the Japanese Government did exactly the same thing. Premature elections might cause the Government more trouble than it is worth. I do not know what the reasons are for pushing the Bill through the Senate at this speed. There has to be a purpose. Yet we are not told what the purpose is. 
There is enough evidence to show that the Government has no more understanding about the ramifications of this Bill than it has about the ramifications of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. The Government did precisely the same thing of rushing that Bill through the Senate even though we wanted to debate it for a longer period. What has happened? lt has only just been passed by the House of Representatives. It has languished for months. We were not given the right to debate the matter to its logical conclusion, even though we recotter gnised that it was a forlorn hope. 
The Government's tactics are open to a great deal of suspicion.  Senator Chipp  was quite right when he pointed to the absurdity of the way in which the parliamentary system operates in these matters of community concern. The matters are debated in the party room before being debated in the Parliament and the issues are predetermined so that, short of some major deficiency being discovered in the Bill, there is no honest or genuine attempt in the Parliament to try to listen to the other point of view in respect to important pieces of legislation. 
This debate is an example of the pigheadedness of this Government. It is an example of the dictatorial way in which this Government operates. It is without any doubt a manifestation of the weaknesses in the Westminster system that we do not have the opportunity in this House of review to look at matters other than at a party level. Yet, we hear from time to time of the need for a non-party or bipartisan approach to matters. In 1974 and 1975 honourable senators heard of the need for the Senate to review legislation, to act as a house of review, and to protect the rights of the States. We heard all that rhetoric and malarkey. I could use harder words than those- one harder word, in particular. 
I may have in 1975. That approach is never applied to these sorts of conditions. I would be the last to suggest that all the legislation should be dealt with in the way that I suggest this legislation and legislation such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill ought to be dealt with. But when there is clear community concern and views being expressed outside Parliament which suggest that there ought to be careful consideration, the Senate ought to act responsibly and not act at the dictates of the Prime Minister who just says, 'We are not going to consider the other points of view of those outside of the Parliament', and who then seeks to deny inside the Parliament the due processes of proper debate and consideration. 
Finally, I want to quote from a letter published in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  from Professor Mills, to whom my colleague  Senator Evans  has already referred. Anybody who knows him will accept that he does not take a partisan position in respect of industrial law. He occupies a senior position and he is accepted right throughout the Australian community as a person versed in industrial and commercial law. In his letter he fairly substantially endorses the view of  Mr Justice  Staples about deregistration, namely, that in the hands of the GovernorGeneral a trade union of 150,000 or 200,000 members can be deregistered. Honourable senators all know that the Governor-General operates at the behest of the Executive Council, and that the Executive Council acts at the behest of the Prime Minister. So one man- the Prime Minister- will be able to decide the future of a trade union. In his letter to the  Sydney Morning Herald,  Professor Mills stated: 
By requiring the Commission to hear stand-down applications expeditiously and by allowing the employer to have such an application transferred at his request to the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission, the Bill is encouraging private employers to stand down innocent people in case of unavailability of work. 
Professor Mills also points out that under the proposed amendments to the Social Services Act, blameless workers stood down will also be denied unemployment benefits if they belong to the union which has striking members. So, here we have not only penalties being applied with respect to this piece of legislation but also penalties being applied to those in receipt of social security benefits as a result of the Social Services Act. Professor Mills also made the following comment: 
There cannot be many countries of the world where membership of a lawful trade union will disqualify a person from social security benefits. 
It does not matter where one looks in respect of this piece of legislation. It has to be said that the Bill has a totalitarian aspect about it; it is undemocratic and it flows from the warped minds of authoritarian people who do not accept the fundamental principle of people being able to engage in a lawful pursuit in respect of their trade union activities. It is a piece of legislation that enjoys no support from the employer or employee sections of the Australian community. It does not enjoy support from the judiciary and it is the sort of legislation that ought not get the support of the Australian Senate if it is a Senate worth its name as a House of review. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that the permanent head of the South African Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Brand  Fourie, is on a semisecret visit to Australia and is currently having discussions with  Mr Henderson  and other officers of our Department of Foreign Affairs? Will the Parliament be advised of the reasons for these clandestine discussions which are reported to cover migration, trade, apartheid, Namibia and other related matters? Does the Minister support the principle that the Parliament and not only the Executive should be fully informed of all matters affecting the security of this country in relationships with other countries? 
-Today, 24 October, is United Nations Day, and it is known also as Disarmament Day. It is the last part of the decade for disarmament which was determined by the United Nations in 1969. It is relevant that Lord Tennyson referred to disarmament in the following terms: 
Ring out the thousand wars of old, ring in the thousand years of peace. 
That was the aspiration that prompted the United Nations to take the step of trying to bring about a realisation in the world community of the responsibilities associated with disarmament. That 1969 decision was made some ten years after the  President  of the United States, General Eisenhower, had this to say: 
Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies, in a final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, from those who are cold and are not clothed. 
When he was still in the White House as President, he said: 
War in our time has become an anachronism. Whatever the case in the past, war in the future can serve no useful purpose. 
He said that nothing in the world is as important and urgent as world disarmament. He continued: 
The alternative is so terrible that any risks there might bc in advancing to disarmament are as nothing- 
Nothing 'is the word he used- 
. compared to the risks of not disarming, the risks of sitting on your hands', of drifting on with the arms race and the so-called balance of power. 
General Eisenhower was a life-long soldier, devoted to the study of war, and to the build-up of United States military might. He was chosen, from all the generals of the Western world, to command the greatest armed forces in the greatest battle in the history of war. With the elements against him- the storm in the Channel- his invasion of Normandy was victoriously achieved and the aggression of that period finally defeated. 
In the speeches I have quoted, Eisenhower provides the final answer to any militarist who tries to argue that wars are still inevitable and may be useful; or that armaments are a source of security, influence or prestige; or that defence should have priority over aid to the poor. Yet the United Nations, in a recent publication in 1979, had this to say: 
Like a juggernaut defying all attempts to control it, the arms race today continues with mounting speed and intensity. The nightmare threat of nuclear war still haunts mankind and the world's arsenals grow in size and sophistication, fuelling tensions and engendering a mindless waste of resources which could help to alleviate the plight of millions whose basic needs are not met. 
This is a question with which we would expect the Parliament of Australia, the Senate, to concern itself. Many honourable senators may say: What can we do?' I think we have to do more to create the sort of climate, the change in attitude, that is necessary in the Parliament, in Australia, and in the world scene. Despite the efforts of the United Nations, we have seen a continuation of the arms build-up. Others will say that the attempt to reach some agreement on the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty is a step in the right direction. Let us look at that. It is becoming clear that the SALT agreements play a different role from that portrayed in the media. Let us look at what Kissinger himself said in an interview in  The Economist  on only 3 February this yean  . . Our strategy was to agree on a five-year freeze- the interval we judged would enable us to catch up by developing cruise missiles, a new submarine (Trident), a new ICBM (MX) and the B-l bomber . . . We stopped no program; we accelerated several ... If there had been no agreement, we could have done no more . . . 
The viability and ratifiability of SALT depend importantly on those programs we will carry out, as permitted by the agreement. It therefore must be presented as ushering in a new period of peace . . . 
President Carter was quoted in  Aviation Week and Space Technology  of 26 February this year, somewhat the same period, as saying that SALT II would allow the United States to pursue all the defence programs it believed it may eventually need. He specifically mentioned the MX missile, the Trident submarine, missiles, aircraft to carry cruise missiles, and a new, penetrating bomber. 
In the United States Senate,  Senator Mark  Hatfield said that SALT was another one of those escalating steps in the nuclear arms race which would stimulate production of new weapons. The United States and the Soviet Union would race to reach the maximum levels of nuclear weapons allowed under the Treaty, including missiles suitable for destroying the other nation's offence. The MX missile, which the Carter Administration is developing to replace Minuteman ICBMs, is specifically allowed under SALT II,  Senator Hatfield  said. Its increased accuracy would give the United States the potential by the 1980s to destroy Soviet land-based missiles. This threat would prompt the Soviets to take counter measures, escalating the arms race to still more dangerous levels. He also contended that the cruise missile allowed under SALT II is so easy to deploy in quantity on land and at sea that it poses unique problems for arms control in the future. He said that the proposed treaty was further flawed because it did not outlaw guidance improvements that would give nuclear warheads absolute accuracy, and that this was needed only for a first-strike capability. 
It is clear that the nuclear arsenals of the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will be growing, not shrinking. The current size of these arsenals is terrifying. It is a small wonder then that the United Nations should continue to call for the world community to concern itself with disarmament. The major powers practise secrecy about their nuclear arsenals and particularly about the number of tactical nuclear weapons. We could talk at great length about the rights and wrongs of those who claim that there is a lack of surveillance and proper supervision of each of the major powers to this extent. We could talk at length of the fact that a first strike would probably destroy 140 million people in the Soviet Union in a major nuclear war and that, similarly, something like 105 million to 1 30 million would be destroyed in the United States. These are not the only countries involved in disarmament. The bulk of the annual arms expenditure is accounted for by six countries- the United States, the USSR, China, France, Britain, and West Germany. Something like $ 1 m is spent every minute on the arms race. As  Senator Sim  has said, between 5 per cent and 6 per cent of the world's total output of goods and services is diverted to military ends. In individual countries the percentage diversion is mostly in the 2 per cent to 8 per cent bracket, although in some cases there are expenditures ranging from one per cent to 30 per cent of the gross national product on the arms race. 
Let us consider the connection between the arms race and poverty. The arms race, with its economic cost and social and political effects, nationally and internationally, constitutes an important obstacle to effective progress in establishing a new international economic order. Resources now being absorbed by the arms race are scarce and are needed for socially constructive ends. Every year, military activities throughout the world absorb a volume of resources equivalent to about two-thirds of the aggregate gross national product of those countries which together comprise the poorest half of the world's population. In the world as a whole, there are almost as many soldiers as there are teachers. Public health expenditures amount, on a world scale, to only 60 per cent or so of military expenditures. The resources devoted to medical research on a world-wide basis are only about onefifth of those devoted to military research and development. In all cases, the amount of resources consumed in the military sector is very large compared with the social expenditure of governments, even in such important fields as education and health, indicating the unfortunate priorities that govern the allocation of public funds throughout the world. In 1970, Third World countries spent something like $3,000m on defence, or on arms. In 1976, the last year for which I was able to get figures, that had risen something like $7, 3000m. This is in countries in which poverty, malnutrition, disease and hardship are the orders of the day. It is no wonder that the United Nations should consider that there is a responsibility on parliaments and communities to concern themselves with the problems of military expenditure. In 1977, the United Nations Secretary-General Waldheim said: 
The vast benefits which could result from even trifling cuts in military expenditures and the reallocation of the funds thus saved are particularly obvious in the field of health. The World Health Organisation spent around $83m over ten years to eradicate smallpox in the world. That amount would not even suffice to buy a single modern strategic bomber. The WHO program to eradicate malaria in the world, at an estimated cost of some $450m, is dragging on due to lack of funds. Yet its total cost over the years is only half of what is spent every day for military purposes, and only a third of what will be spent, strictly for procurement, for each of the new 'Trident' nuclear missile submarines. 
When we think of Biafra, Bangladesh, Timor, Ethiopia, Kampuchea and all the suffering in the Third World countries and look at the photographs of people who are, for example, currently dying of malaria and suffering from lack of food in countries such as Kampuchea, we must accept some responsibility for the fact that the Western World and the elitists who are so active in the governments of many of the Third World countries have failed in their responsibilities to their own people. Thus, disarmament and development must not be seen to be separate problems. They are parts of the one problem and must be solved together, or neither will be solved at all. This is quite apart from other economic problems the arms race causes. The demand on resources can spark inflation, as well as divert research and development from more productive uses. 
Another factor in the growth equation is technological change. Throughout the world an estimated 400,000 engineers and scientists are working on military projects. The opportunity cost of this diversion of resources is impossible to quantify. Its magnitude is suggested by recalling that whilst scientific and technological advances have yielded enormous benefits for mankind, some 40 per cent of the financial resources devoted to research and development since World War II have been used in the military field. Military technology is moving further away from any conceivable civilian use and is, in any case, focusing on fields most irrelevant to the solution of more important present and future problems of the world. There can be no doubt that in the final analysis technological innovation in the civilian sector and with it, growth, are not furthered by military research and development but are greatly impaired by it. In the last minute or so of my speech I would like to quote from the last paragraph in the recent journal published by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. It states: 
On several occasions it has been seen how the public, when adequately informed, can exercise a moderating influence on developments in the field of armaments, and fostering a genuine and widespread public concern about the dangers of the arms race may be one of the most important ways of giving a new momentum to efforts towards disarmament. This need for an active and well-informed public opinion capable of opposing all incitement to war and of channelling its concern in constructive directions is of vital importance, for where questions of armament and disarmament are concerned the very survival of humanity is at stake. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Government aware that State governments profit considerably by the operation of totalisator agency boards? Is the Minister aware that, since the New South Wales Government has stamped down on the illegal operation of starting price betting, TAB revenue has increased in New South Wales by $ 1 m a week? Does the Government recognise that the successful operation of SP betting is a source of corruption, but depends substantially upon the provision of telephones supplied by Telecom Australia as well as a measure of tolerance by some sections of the police force? As all States are plagued by SP operators, can the Minister say what steps the Government has taken, or can take, to tighten up the provision of telephones to SP business operations, often available freely but at the expense of the legitimate requirements of law abiding citizens? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation has suggested a policy of world parity for the pricing of industrial and stockfeed wheat? If such a policy were adopted, would food inflation in Australia increase to at least 20 per cent per annum? If that were to happen, what would be the Government's attitude to this proposal in light of its professed policy of fighting inflation? 
Senato Chipp certainly conducted a very spirited defence of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and condemned the changes which are proposed in relation to crime and drug trafficking in our country. But  Senator Chipp  obviously fails to appreciate that he based his defence on a situation which may have existed when he was the Minister for Customs and Excise some eight or nine years ago. The facts are, without any equivocation, that in those eight or nine years we have seen a drastic extension of drug trafficking in this country to the extent that it is true to say that there is a great deal of public concern about the degree of drug taking in this country, about the degree of drug imports into this country and about the degree of corruption that obviously exists for the extension of that industry which we have seen taking place in the 1 970s. 
If anyone stands indicted about the extension of this drug trafficking, it is this very Government. It was this Government, when in opposition, that refused to agree to the steps when they were proposed by the Australian Labor Party Government in 1974-75. It was this Government as a conservative group in opposition that completely disrupted the 1973, 1974 and 1975 period. In the process of disrupting the effective areas of government administration, not only did it contribute towards the tragedy of Timor by the way in which it created dissatisfaction and disaffection within the Australian community but also it caused to be put aside for a period of four or five years the question of reorganising the Federal police and the Narcotics Bureau. It was recognised in 1974-75 by the Labor Government that there was a need to bring the Narcotics Bureau under closer supervision to improve its efficiency and really to set about combating the growth of drug trafficking in this country. So, we have lost four or five years. One of the recommendations of the then  Senator Murphy,  the Attorney-General, for reorganising the Federal police system was that we should place the effective control of narcotics under the Federal police reorganisation. 
The Bill was, in fact, before the Parliament when the conservative element in this place set about creating the conditions which made effective government impossible and which made parliamentary activity unworkable. Yet it has taken this Government another four or five years to put into effect the very recommendations of that legislation. When ex-Senator Murphy put those views before the Parliament, he was attacked by the self-same conservatives, by members of the Fraser Government when they were in opposition. We were accused in that period of undermining public confidence In the Narcotics Bureau. The need to bring the Narcotics Bureau into a new form of administration- the Australia Police- was apparent to the government of that time. Even when we were discussing the Federal Police legislation early this year we were criticised because we suggested even then that this arm of federal jurisdiction should be brought under the control of the reorganised Federal police. We had been warned about computer crime, about white collar crime and about the degree to which drug trafficking was corrupting the various eschelons within our Australian society. 
This Government has to be seen in the context of being as guilty as those members of any law enforcement agency that has not properly carried out its responsibilities of dealing with this growth in drug trafficking. To that degree, the Opposition would at least give some credence to the attempts of the Government to recognise now what that period of delay has done. That delay has meant that probably scores of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of people have come into the operation of drug trafficking. 
Large numbers of our young people have become hooked on heroin which has to be imported. It was ludicrous for the Government to take the position that it took earlier. It is ludicrous for  Senator Chipp  to take the view that there has been a grave dereliction of responsibilities in trying to control this growth industry. Unfortunately, it is one of the growth industries in our country. Whatever the amount of money iswhether it is the $700m that  Senator Chipp  talked about or whether it is the $80m odd that was referred to in the report by  Mr Justice  Woodward presented in the New South Wales Parliament today- it has to be recognised that it is an area of tremendous growth and an area which presents tremendous problems for the law enforcement agencies. It is an area in which community concern has been expressed on many occasions in recent times. Of course, as honourable senators well know, it is an area in which there is great corruption. 
Obviously in this very limited debate we cannot sit in judgment on whether the Narcotics Bureau has been guilty of any involvement in the processes of corruption or dereliction of duty. We cannot make comments about whether or not the Commonwealth Police has a biassed view, any more than we can understand whether there has been a justifiable suspicion in respect of the Commonwealth's approach to this matter- it comes within the Commonwealth's jurisdictionand the approach of State law enforcement authorities. But surely we have to concede that when the South Australian, New South Wales and Commonwealth governments have to carry out inquiries or royal commissions into drug trafficking we are clearly faced with a problem of great magnitude. All we can say is that the Government has been very slow in acting and that because of that slowness many people have been affected. There have been murders, there has been corruption and there have been allegations of police involvement. All of this could have been avoided if in 1974-75 the then Government had been able to take the opportunity to bring forward its legislation and have it properly dealt with. 
Let us look at one minor effect that corruption can have. Since Premier Wran has cracked down on illegal gambling in New South Wales revenue to the Totalisator Agency Board, a State instrumentality, has increased by $lm a week- mainly as a result of the stamping out of starting price betting. That was a feature of gambling and of corruption that clearly existed amongst some of the law enforcement personnel; to what degree perhaps we will never know. Of course, at this late stage we are not in a position to talk to any great extent about the findings of  Mr Justice  Woodward which were presented in the New South Wales parliament today. But we are aware that there is an extension of computer crime, that there was a leak from somewhere within the Narcotics Bureau in that regard, and that there is suspicion between the Commonwealth and State law enforcement agencies. We are aware of a growing community concern and of charges and counter-charges in respect to the deficiencies that obviously exist in the area of the control of drugs. We are not in a position to evaluate properly whether there has been an inadequate legislative base, whether the staff of the Narcotics Bureau has been too small or whether the Narcotics Bureau can conduct itself properly within the framework of the Public Service. The Parliament is not in a position to evaluate the charges and counter-charges that have been made because at this stage it has inadequate information. We do not have before us the Royal Commission's report; we have a reasonably brief statement which seeks to set out some of the facts. 
What we can say is that drug trafficking in this country is now taking place on a massive scale; it is growing and it is involving large sections of the Australian community- in particular, large numbers of our young people. The Opposition will co-operate with any agency, government or group in overcoming the problems associated with drug trafficking and its association with criminality. We read of the sorts of brutality and crimes that obviously take place, in the area of drugs. Somewhere within this Parliament there must surely be an opportunity properly to debate the issue. Even though it has come too late and even though it could be said that this Government has egg on its face as a result of its failure to put into effect the legislation being debated by the Parliament in 1975, when that disgraceful attempt to dismiss a legitimate government came into effect, the fact is that this Government has at last acted. If it needs the support of the Opposition to clean out whatever corruption exists anywhere in the surveillance area of drug trafficking in this country, then it should say so. It should accept the fact that it has been recreant in its responsibilities and that it has to make up for lost time. It should be prepared to admit that it ought to have supported the legislation when it was before the Parliament some four or five years ago. It should say that it wants to clean up the areas of suspicion that exist within the control of the drug situation within our country. 
One therefore hopes that the Government will not be content with this rather preliminary report but that it will enable the Parliament to be provided with a lot more information and thus give us a chance to look at the various reports of the inquiries into drug trafficking conducted by the State governments in this country. I hope that it will give the Parliament an opportunity to determine whether the steps recommended in the rather brief statement presented to this Parliament will in the long run bring about some control of the growth of drug taking in Australia, whether we will be able to put an end to the hideous and brutal murders which occur almost weekly in the various States of the Commonwealth, and whether we will be in a position to get at least some way along the road towards ending the corruption that is obviously associated with drug taking in this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Peter  Baume) adjourned. 
I join with  Senator Bonner  in discussing, perhaps with a little more detail, this matter of Timor and Indonesia. I think that I can agree substantially with most of  Senator Bonner's  general comments about the plight of the people in East Timor. I say this not only because of a common experience we shared in September 1975 but also because of a common concern we share about humanity in general. I look back at the first trip to Timor that I participated in in the early part of 1975 and at what was said when I came back. I look also at the second trip which  Senator Bonner,  the honourable member for Fraser,  Mr Fry, Mr Darby  and I participated in. One might say that that was a strange group particularly in view of  Mr Darby's  general designation in Liberal Party difficulties in New South Wales at the moment. If we examine what was said I think it would have to be conceded by all and sundrythe Government, the Australian Labor Party and the leaders who were perhaps more influential at that time than we were- that the reports that were given to this Parliament were overwhelmingly and substantially true. 
The truth some four years later is now beginning to filter through. To that degree I think we must pay some tribute to the Australian Journalists' Association for its persistence in this matter. It has succeeded in its negotiations in Jakarta for the right to go into Timor and to break the iron curtain that obviously existed in that island since the invasion took place on 8 December 1975. We ought to recall the circumstances of what was happening in September 1975. The political situation in Australia was very divisive and difficult. 
The Government was under a great deal of public, parliamentary and conservative pressure. This, of course, does not excuse the action that was taken by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  but one understands the dilemma that he perhaps was placed in when he had his back to the wall and was seeking to defend his Government's position domestically and not to become involved in a conflict with the mighty Indonesia. 
We must remember that at that time  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Anthony  were asking questions in the House of Representatives which were asserting that the independence movement in East Timor was Communist influenced. Of course, that was the basis upon which the Indonesians finally moved. To suggest that in this tiny country of 600,000 people which was one of the last colonial possessions in the Pacific, a country removed from industrialisation and a country in a backwater, there was any overt outside influence is absurd. That was the experience that we had. Is not it an interesting unity ticket that  Mr Darby  came to exactly those conclusions?  Mr Darby,  who is now accused of being a right wing extremist, which he may well be, also defended that position on the basis of his own personal investigations on the island, as, indeed, did  Senator Bonner, Mr Fry  and I when we went to Timor after the Fretilin forces had in fact gained the upper hand in the internal struggle for independence. 
What has to be appreciated by the Senate and by public opinion in our country is that there exists within Government, as a result of advice that is proffered to it by the Department of Foreign Affairs, a belief that our relationships with Indonesia are more important, are paramount, to the rights of people. Even as late as a couple of weeks ago, the Department of Foreign Affairs held a seminar in our capital involving Indonesia, academics, journalists and officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs to consider relations between Indonesia and Australia. No members of parliament were invited to participate in those discussions which were designed, said the Department of Foreign Affairs, to improve relations between Australia and Indonesia. No one has disagreement about the need for relations to be on a proper basis between countries that are in the same region. But if this is done at the expense of ordinary people who are just one step out of a semi-feudal position, if it is done at the expense of the number of people who have perished in East Timor- and God only knows whether it is 100,000 people or 300,000 people; whether it is 16 per cent or 50 per cent of the population- it has to be said that there is blood on our hands. There is blood on the hands of all Australians, the Whitlam Government, the Fraser Government and, of course, the principal culprits, the Indonesians themselves. The Indonesians took advantage of the political situation in Australia to do what they did. Honourable senators should remember that they did so right on the eve of the general elections in Australia. So, they knew the political position in this country was in somewhat of a turmoil. They took advantage of the divisions that existed within our country to invade a defenceless country that had nothing more than a few hundred or, at the very most, 1,000 troops who were armed with weapons that had been left in Timor by the Portuguese when they moved out. What threat to security were these 1,000 men and /or women in the Fretilin forces to the 130 million people in Indonesia. 
I am a little gratified by an answer given today by  Senator Carrick  to a question asked by  Senator Kilgariff.  It seemed to indicate to me that at last there is some recognition of one fact. He pointed out that the substantial numbers of people in Timor live not in Dili, Balibo or any of the other villages but rather in the mountains where they have lived for countless centuries. Yet, we have  Dr Mochtar,  the Indonesian Foreign Minister, if he is correctly quoted- one can only assume that he is- saying that the reason for the problems of starvation and difficulties in Timor was the Fretilin independence movement forcing people away from their villages up into the mountains. That is where they normally live. 
I have indicated in previous debates that when we were there in the early part of 1975, when the population of Dili would have been about 30,000, 1 saw 20,000 people marching down the streets behind their respective banners. Certainly the overwhelming number were behind the Fretilin banner, a substantial number were behind the Timorese Democratic Union- the UDT- banner and the smallest number made up the Apodeti group, which favoured integration with Indonesia. Is anyone suggesting- as the Indonesians have- that that was a forced march, that the people were forced at bayonet point or by some other means to involve themselves in a procession through the street? They were only marching with their flags and banners for independence. Their motivation was national independence- something which we and people all over the world have fought for. At the end of the World War II 64 nations formed the United Nations Organisation. There are now more than 150 member countries, so almost 90 countries have won their independence in post-war years. It does not matter whether it is the Aborigines in Australia who want political and land rights or the people in Timor, Namibia, Rhodesia or South Africa; it is part of the pattern of people struggling for the right to determine their own affairs. That is all that issue was. However, a report on the front page of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Saturday, 3 November stated: 
Indonesia's Foreign Minister,  Dr Mochtar,  today defended his country's handling of the humanitarian crisis in East Timor. 
He told reporters that 'within its limited means Indonesia had done what it could ' to relieve the plight of tens of thousands of people in the territory who are suffering from hunger and disease as a result of four years of upheaval in East Timor. 
He claimed that Indonesian relief workers have 'been there for a long time. ' 
If that is the case, those relief workers have failed dismally. I draw attention to reports and pictures that journalists have been able to get out of East Timor during recent visits and to the letters I have seen from Catholic priests and nuns through the various organisations that have been contacted in this country by unimpeachable sources from within East Timor. Are the Indonesians saying they are all lies and that in fact there has been no suffering. We have photographs of the situation and we now know about the degree of suffering and death that has taken place in East Timor. The Government of Indonesia ought to be put on trial for its lack of humanity in respect of the people of East Timor. During the Press conference,  Dr Mochtar  was asked, according to the Press report to which I referred earlier, why Indonesia has never requested any outside assistance for East Timor. The report states that he said that outside help was welcome. It continues: 
If there is some adverse publicity we have to live with it, ' he said. 
 It is a small price to pay. ' 
Australia's Foreign Minister,  Mr Peacock,  has been trying to assist for two years. He originally made representations to the Indonesian Government two years ago for the right for the International Red Cross- an impartial organisation which is accepted world-wide- to go into East Timor. He made that request many times. We in the Parliament have shown a degree of unanimity which is rarely reflected. We have sent to the United Nations telegrams signed by 80, 90 or 100 members of the Parliament. Similarly, we have addressed ourselves, again on a nonpartisan basis, to  President  Carter. After two years of such representation there was no response. Finally, a breakthrough was achieved by journalists who were concerned about the brutal murder of five other journalists, four of whom were Australians who were in East Timor with a view to reporting what was actually happening there.  Dr Mochtar  was then asked whether recent reports in the Australian Press about the humanitarian crisis in Timor could affect Australia 's relations with Indonesia. He said: 
. there are so many problems in the world that another one is all in a day 's work. 
It may be your problem rather than ours if it upsets relations. 
What cynicism! What disregard for human rights! Certainly we have heard a great deal in recent times about the tragedy of Kampuchea. All of us deplore that situation. But the same problem, the same suffering, the same degree of starvation and death have been occurring in an area closer to our shores and we have not been able to make that essential breakthrough. To the credit of Indonesia itself, two of its newspapersMerdeka and the  Indonesia Observer- have  joined forces with those of us who have been trying to raise these matters in Australia. They have taken up the fight inside Indonesia and highlighted the major humanitarian problems in East Timor. They have both criticised the Indonesian Government for not telling Indonesians about the situation in Timor. The newspapers quoted a senior officer from their Social Affairs Department as saying that the Department had received no official advice about starvation in East Timor. One can understand that when one hears the statements made by  Dr Mochtar,  the Indonesian Foreign Minister. 
If he has been correctly reported,  Dr Mochtar  can be described only as an unmitigated liar. If he is worth his salt as a Foreign Minister he must know of the degree of suffering that has been going on in East Timor. He must have known about the reports. We know about them in Australia. He would have received them. He must have known through the intelligence gathering in his own country about the situation there. He must have known about the concern that was expressed by the United Nations and the decision of the Indonesian Government to refuse the right of the United Nations' representative to go to Timor in 1976. These are the facts; yet  Dr Mochtar  has the temerity, the audacity, to defend his country's efforts in Timor. He said that some people were desperate. He noted that there were difficulties in taking food and medicine to needy villages. He said that some people in the territory were bound to die. Nobody is bound to die, whether he be in Kampuchea, Uganda or Timor. It is within our grasp and it is pan of our obligations to make sure that nobody dies and that we accept the principle that nobody need die in Timor if we are worth our salt and our role as citizens and members of the Parliament. I will not condemn the Government for now recognising the need to send aid. It has decided to do so. But I seriously question the Government's advice from our own Department of Foreign Affairs, which places in a higher category the principle by which all governments should operate. The principle by which all governments should operate is that the rights of people are more important than the rights of nations in their relationships that flow from those rights. The rights of people to survive and the rights of people to be recognised as people are surely an obligation on every one of us. 
I congratulate  Senator Bonner  for raising this matter this evening. I support the Government's belated efforts- nevertheless they are efforts- to get aid in there. We ought to be taking special steps to overcome the problems of resettlement which obviously exist in that country and which surely would be now part of our extra obligations when one looks at the sorry picture that has faced our relationship with East Timor over the last four or five years. Whether it was the Whitlam Government or this Government is not important. The fact is that there are people there who want to be reunited with their families in Australia. We ought to facilitate those processes. We ought to see that every person in East Timor gets food, clothing and medical supplies and that the death toll that obviously still exists in that country is put to an end. We might not be able to do that in respect of Kampuchea because we are confronted with wider issues, major power rivalries and all sorts of subjective factors, but in Timor there is no need for any person to suffer. 
That is right. We should insist upon our rights. We should say to the Indonesian Government that if it is not prepared to act properly in this matter, if it is not prepared to apply the standards of decent human rights, then the relationship betwen our country and that country is at risk. 
I think it is appropriate for the Senate to discuss the matter of rising prices in our country and the failure of the Federal Government to utilise one of the machinery arms available to it for the purpose of controlling the inflationary spiral of prices for consumer goods. The problem of price rises should be the concern of the Government. It certainly is the concern of the Opposition and the general community. There is mounting evidence to support the claim that public concern ought to be accommodated by the Parliament because we have witnessed in recent times- I am talking now of the last 20 or 30 years- a regular and relentless rise in prices generally in the Australian community. That did not start in December 1972 and stop in December 1975. It is a feature of the period in which we live; it is part of a world wide phenomenon and part of an economic factor in our country. 
We have to look at what determines prices and not just seek- as so often happens in the Parliament and in Government parties- to examine all of the features that go to make up the price of goods. We have to examine not just the cost of labour but the costs of materials, overheads and, of course, profit margins. We also have to ask whether, in fact, we are living in a period in which competition or market forces play the significant role they once played in trying to determine a reasonable price. This Government's policy has been only to control the cost of labour. We have seen time and time again, in all of the national wage cases heard before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, substantial submissions by the Government seeking to control the price of labour, as if that were the only component in rising prices. This Government is not concerned with rents. I have not seen one public statement about the cost of rents, whether it be for the tenant, for small shopkeepers, or, for that matter, for the large factories or commercial centres. I have not seen any evidence of concern by the Government about the cost of materials, yet it is substantial. I have not seen any analysis or attempt to establish the cost of transportation. There has never been one statement by any government spokesman expressing concern about excessive profiteering. In fact, the only area with which this Government has concerned itself has been the cost of labour. 
When the Australian Labor Party came to office in 1972, in the first few months in the Autumn session it brought in legislation to provide for the establishment of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It was established for the purpose of, firstly, analysing the forces that operate in the market place and, secondly, considering the part that capital and labour play in the whole price structure. The purpose of the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal was to share the burden of any economic difficulties that we were faced with at that time. As the original legislation suggested, we were concerned that at that time some 350 big corporations in our country were involved in a price rise process without having regard to the cost factors to which I have referred. 
It is interesting to look back at the debate that took place in the Senate when it was dealing with the formation of the Prices Justification Tribunal.  Senator Webster  rightly made this comment: 
This Bill is of immense importance to the Australian community. I should imagine that the general aim by the Government to control rising prices would achieve the full support of not only members of Parliament but also the business community, particularly those who are being severely affected by the escalation that is occurring daily in the cost of goods and services. Although rising prices over the past years - 
I emphasise that point-  have done some harm to this country, we have not reached the rate of inflation that has affected other countries. 
So it was apparent even then that we were faced with a rising cost factor and that inflation was having its impact in the market place.  Senator Jessop  in the same debate said: 
That is, the conservative parties which at that time were in opposition- must support the Bill because we believe that something has to be done in an attempt to arrest the tide of inflation. Even if the course proposed is to introduce legislation which is intimidatory up to a point we will go along with it. 
It would be absurd to suggest that inflation started from the moment that the Whitlam Government came into office, and the Government's own members have testified to that. 
Why did we take the steps of establishing the PJT? We did so in recognition of changed economic circumstances. We recognised even then that we were starting to move into a post-market economy where competition was no longer adequate to keep prices down. Most markets were dominated by a few big corporations, many of them foreign, which had pricing policies which were determined overseas and which had a flow-on effect on our national economy. The PJT was designed to monitor the price changes taking place in that corporate sector of the Australian economy and not in every small shop or business. These major companies generally do not compete through prices. In succeeding years we have seen abundant evidence of that. The companies rather concern themselves with product differentiation, packaging and advertising in order to increase their market share. We have a lot of evidence to show that through product differentiation and massive advertising campaigns these big companies seek to win a share of the market by competing against their own products. If demand falls these companies do not need to reduce prices; they can put them up. This goes a long way towards explaining stagflationprice rises while output and employment fall. 
It is worth just reminding the Senate that this contemporary development in the United States of America, in Australia and in all of the Western countries was identified in a decision of the United States Congress. In October 1976 it set up the Joint Economic Committee, which looked at the effect of market concentration and pricing policies and found that the cost of labour was not the significant factor in price. The United States Committee in its report described the process of price mark-ups as the cause of inflation in a period of recession and unemployment in the following way: 
During a recession when sales fall, firms operating in concentrated markets with substantial economic power will increase their prices to offset revenue losses from declining sales, thereby charging a higher markup per unit sales in order to attain their desired target rate of profits. 
My conclusion from that remark is that in this country we are now living in a period which can generally be described as one of market concentration. 
Let us have a look at some of the objective analyses that have been developed in recent times to see whether our assumptions and conclusions are correct. In Australia, there have been a number of reports on industries by various and different bodies which indicate that the correct conclusions of the Congress decision which was made in the United States were borne out in the 
Australian practice. FirstlY, let us look at the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices which met in 1 974. The Committee had representatives from both sides of the Parliament, from the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
The Committee found that in the soap industry there was no substantial price competition in the market, that what competition there was was aimed to enlarge market shares and that it had led to excessive advertising, unnecessary proliferation of similar products under different brand names, higher costs and prices with little benefit to the consumers. These conclusions arrived at by the Parliamentary Committee were confirmed by an Industries Assistance Commission report on soaps and detergents. It confirmed another report which was made in the United Kingdom on monopolies which found that the Unilever Company and the Proctor and Gamble Organisation, the two major soap and detergent manufacturers in that country, spent almost 20 per cent of their total turnover on advertising because they were involved in the same process of product differentiation and of competition between their own brands. 
In the confectionery industry, the Industries Assistance Commission found that the market was dominated by the five largest producers, that profitability was well above average, that there was an obvious price leader, that manufacturers compete on the basis of product differentiation rather than price, and that advertising costs to launch a new product can be up to 30 per cent of the total costs in the first year. 
The Industries Assistance Commission, in examining the cosmetics industry, concluded that price competition was absent with success depending mainly on product innovation, promotional skill and imports. One company stated that there was very little difference in the functional quality of high and low priced products. The Commission said: 
The industry uses packaging, advertising and promotion and pricing to create, in the mind of the consumer, distinctions between basically similar goods . . . Under these conditions, suppliers experience a high degree of freedom in price setting and manufacturing costs do not appear to be a significant factor determining a company 's competitiveness. 
These examples that I have given could be multiplied many times over. The fact is that in many cases the consumer is being over-charged or ripped off by these high prices where profits are excessive, whatever criteria is applied. It is interesting that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on cosmetics, pointed out that the mark-up price was up to 2,000 per cent on imported goods coming from the Asian region. So, an article is imported, put in a nice fancy package that makes it look like something out of the box- something different, perhaps printed in gold- and one is able to put on a mark-up price, as the IAC established in that report, of something like 2,000 per cent. 
Governments have shown some concern. The New South Wales Government is one in particular that has shown concern about rising costs and rising prices. After a Sydney newspaper printed the telephone number of the New South Wales Consumer Affairs Bureau and told its readers that they could report price rises to  Mr Einfeld  's Department, the Bureau received more than 1,100 calls in two days. Let us not have any illusions. There is considerable public concern about what is happening in the market place. There is an abuse of corporate power; there is a market concentration; and there is excessive profit making. There is a need, therefore, for a public authority to require those top echelon companies in our country to justify price rises in a public forum. 
Might I remind those honourable senators who often express some misgivings about these sons of matters that they should have a look at the recent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development committee on fiscal affairs entitled 'Transfer Pricing and Multinational Enterprises'. The report recommendation is for government action in respect of pricing and taxing policies in the international market. Australia is in a situation now where imports represent about 40 per cent of goods that are sold in the market place. We are in a position where more than 60 per cent of our companies are now, if not foreign controlled, very strongly foreign influenced. The OECD has found this to be a factor that governments have to take into consideration because prices are being manipulated in that area of our economy. The market structure itself has changed. We witness this every day. We only have to read the articles that appear in the financial columns of our newspapers to realise the take-over bids that are taking place, and the diversifying of companies by taking over other companies. The purpose of this activity is to strengthen the corporate sector of the economy and to make competition less of an influence over prices. 
When the Government came to power, it took several steps to weaken the legislative effect of the Prices Justification Tribunal, lt took steps to reduce the number of companies that could be examined by the Prices Justification Tribunal. It then removed the surveillance and investigative role of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It gave to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs the power to decide what activities the Tribunal should examine. It took steps to limit the effectiveness of the organisation by reducing the number of its staff. If my memory serves me correctly, some 160 persons were employed on the staff of the Tribunal. The number is down to 82, according to the latest report which I have seen. That indicates that, by removing the Tribunal's effectiveness as a resource centre and by removing the powers to investigate, it is left to the States to play some small but ineffective role in the whole area of prices. One only has to examine the profitability of the manufacturing sector in the last decade from 1966-67 to 1 976-77 to see what the operating profits on funds employed are and how- the last figures available in the IAC annual report were for 1977-78 - manufacturing profits have increased from 10.6 per cent of funds employed up to the highest they have been in the decade at 13.4 per cent in 1976-77. 
Time will not permit me to say very much about the problems of transfer pricing other than to refer to what is happening in the petroleum industry and how the Prices Justification Tribunal, in its limited power; sought to do something in 1979 about the rising price of petroleum products. Then, of course, we had the first inquiry into the Shell Oil Co. in 1974. The PJT looked at the Caltex case in 1 974 also. In the Esso case of 1 977 we see that the Tribunal said: 
. In two particular areas we found Esso's invoiced costs to be unacceptable for pricing purposes. 
The Fraser Government. It has failed to act upon the advice that was given by the Tribunal. It has failed to act upon the Collins Royal Commission on Petroleum. The Government has left it to the Prices Commission of the New South Wales Government to try to obtain the sorts of transfer pricing arrangements in which all the petroleum countries involve themselves for the purpose of trying to establish an equitable price for this very important commodity. It is true that the Government accepts the fact that it has raised $2, 000m from the special tax that it placed on petrol in the last Budget. In addition to that, I think it is an unsatisfactory state of affairs that the New South Wales Prices Commission is forced to perform at a State level a role which is rightly the jurisdiction of the Prices Justification Tribunal at a national level. This Government ought to be forced to reinstate the PJT legislation so that the 
Tribunal can be effective as a resource and surveillance centre in the monitoring of price rises that are taking place in our country. To that extent the Government should take steps to see that we have some effective control of price rises at the top echelons of industry in our country. 
The Opposition is pleased to support the legislation not because we believe that it will meet the requirements of local government but rather because it will continue the policies which were begun by the Whitlam Labor Government in its first Budget in 1973. 1 am somewhat disappointed with the rather glib and superficial way in which  Senator Davidson  dealt with this very vexed problem. However I must admit that towards the end of his contribution he at least paid some attention to the need to change the tax base if we are to recognise our federal responsibilities in regard to funding local government. 
The objective, it seems to me, of a national Parliament should be to see local government in its proper relationship to the other two arms of government. The objective should be to see local government as a just, equitable, efficient and adequate system of democratic government. To do that properly local government needs adequate funds. Local government's mere reliance upon the property tax which has been its substantial revenue base since local government was established almost a century ago has finally been recognised to be inadequate. Why is it inadequate? It is inadequate because property improvement is not now just the simple area of responsibility of local government. Because of the changing environment, the rising standard of living and the tremendous population growth that was brought about substantially by Federal Government migration programs in the post-war years, we need to recognise that local government cannot be expected to provide all of the funds to create a reasonable environment in which people may live. 
Local government needs to be recognised as an active, responsible and effective form of government at the grass roots level. It has an important role to play in improving the environment in which people live and in providing a range of facilities which perhaps were not even dreamt of when local government first established its franchise. Local government has an increasing role to play in the provision of public facilities. lt is interesting that Government senators who have spoken on this Bill have ignored the fact that for some 25 years the pleadings of local government were completely ignored by the conservative governments in Canberra. For example, in 1949, when the Menzies Administration was first elected, the Australian Council of Local Government Associations first adopted the principle that local government funds should be augmented by revenue from the national Government. In the bleak post-war years of the 1950s and the 1960s when development was taking place and migration was increasing the hazards and problems of population congestion in our cities and suburbs and when a natural increase caused our population almost to double, governments of the present Government's philosophy turned a blind eye to the problem and answered no to the pleadings of local government to be recognised. Even as late as 1970 and 1971 when the Australian Council of Local Government Associations asked that a deputation meet the Prime Minister to discuss this very vexed and major problem of funding for local government, the McMahon Government refused even to meet the delegation; but in 1973 all that changed. For the first time since Federation the national Parliament accepted financial responsibility for some of the areas of funding for local government. In the subsequent Budgets of the Labor Administration substantial sums were made available. These sums were in excess of the amounts that have been suggested by  Senator Davidson  tonight as representing a plus for local government. 
We saw logic and justice finally overcoming the backward attitudes of conservative governments. They finally came to the party. This is one issue that the conservative government did not attempt to change when it came into office at the end of 1975. I challenge  Senator Davidson  to examine more carefully the money that has been made available as a result of the first and subsequent Fraser Budgets and the amount of money that is proposed to be made available as a result of this piece of legislation. Such an examination will show not an increase in real terms. It might show an increase in money terms, but when the degree of inflation is taken into account the amount of money that was made available to local government in the Whitlam period has not been increased. 
Let me refer the Senate to the tables which were incorporated in the House of Representatives  Hansard  on 1 1 October by my colleague,  Mr Uren.  They show very clearly that as a result of changes in the value of money local government is in fact receiving less funds for its ever widening range of responsibilities. I do not think any honourable senator, whatever his political affiliations, would disagree with me that road construction still represents a major portion of local government's areas of responsibility. Let us look at the amount of money that is made available in general purpose assistance. We must have regard also to the money that is made available in road allocations to local governments, which, of course, are made in a separate piece of legislation and in a separate arrangement with the States. Thus we find an even more alarming drop in the total allocation of funds to local government. Let us look at what the position was in 1975-76 when the Hayden Budget was brought down. Federal Government payments in real terms for general purpose assistance, specific purpose grants, road allocations and payments under the Regional Employment Development Scheme totalled $476.4m. What amount does this Budget allocate four years later? In real terms the payments amount to $382. 7m, which is $94m less in real terms than was paid to local government in 1975-76. 
If we examine the total payments to the States for local government on a proportional basis and relate them to individual income tax revenue collection in previous years we find a somewhat similar reduction. In 1975-76, for example, total payments- including road allocations- to the States for local government as a proportion of total individual income tax revenue collections by the Commonwealth amounted to 4.5 per cent. What is the figure in the current Budget? It is 2.9 per cent. If we exclude payments for roads the figure amounted to 2.2 per cent in the Hayden Budget and is 1.9 per cent in this Budget. These figures show an actual reduction in money terms of approximately 33 per cent. From the way one reads the figures and understands what is available to local government one comes very clearly to the conclusion that there has been an overall drop in payments other than for roads from $37 lm in 1975-76 to $248m in 1979-80. That represents a considerable reduction in the amount of funds paid to local government. Local government on a national basis has been forced to increase its rates by 27.5 per cent in that same four-year period. 
What is the purpose of Commonwealth funding to local government? Is it to prevent increases in rates? Is it to increase and to improve the environment? Is it to increase the range of facilities to local government for the people who live within a local government boundary? Is it just to catch up or top up? Is it just a holding operation or is it an operation designed to improve the environment in which all of our people live? All of our people live, in one way or another, in a municipal or shire area. 
What this Government has done- it was emphasised by what  Senator Davidson  had to say- is to delete specific purpose grants entirely from the funding of local government.  Senator Davidson  and other Government speakers have stressed that local government ought to have a flexible position; it ought to be able to determine how it spends its own money and, therefore, ought to be given general purpose assistance. I submit to the Senate and to those Government members whose minds are not closed on this issue that that is a very fine principle, but it only goes so far down that road to meeting the deficiencies that exist within local government. We have to expect- and of course we know- that there is a great variety of forms of local government in Australia. For example, one local government area has only 67 people. Another local government area has 696,000 people. In size, one local government has an area of 1.04 square kilometres. Another has 330,429 square kilometres. In local government areas, we have an age situation. We have a social make-up, a geography, a geology, a demography, and a density feature all of which are different from others. We have a revenue capacity in some local government areas which are different from others. In fact, we have revenue capacities which we have to recognise vary very much from area to area. We have much change from State to State, depending upon the degree of development in a particular State. This is probably related to the historical development of our States, based on the early days of colonialism in our own country. 
If a national government was really about understanding local government, if it was really about wanting to help local government in its allsided areas of responsibility, it would be setting out to talk to local government, to develop cooperation, to be involved in experimental programs, promoting some equity, developing better guidelines in respect of what ought to be strategies and objectives for local government. Surely, it ought to be about establishing the principles that will equalise public facilities in all local government areas. Surely that is an objective which no self-respecting honourable senator would not want to support. To reach that objective we of course, need specific purpose grants. No one in his or her right mind is going to tell me that in my own State of New South Wales, for example, local government is the same in Kuringgai as it is in Marrickville or Blacktown, that the problems in my own area of Sutherland are the same as the problems in Woollahra, or that there is not a difference in the capacity of people in those regions to pay rates. We all know that there are places in our cities and suburbs where rates exceed $500 a year. There are other places where rates are about half that amount. 
Rating differences exist because of the capacity of various communities to pay different rates. I would imagine that in the State of Tasmania where, for example, there is a degree of stagnation as a result of economic factors arising from changes in world trade- it has nothing to do with State governments or political partiesthere would be less capacity to pay a high rate as there would be in the municipality of Woollahra in my own State. Most of the people who live there have incomes in excess of average weekly earnings. There is a difference in local government. The Whitlam Government recognised this fact when it set about increasing the amount of money in the form of specific purpose grants in order that we would finally reach some equality in local government areas. It wanted every person in Australia to have access to local government loans and perhaps to olympic swimming pools and to have decent roads, footpaths, drainage systems and sufficient open space, whether it be passive or active to meet the recreational facilities needs of the people in the region or municipality. 
Surely these are matters that ought to be the responsibility of the national parliament. They are matters that have nothing to do with property improvement. If a local library, playing fields or a road system are built to facilitate the movement of traffic, they are not really related to improving the value of property which is the purpose for which the rating system has been developed. They are matters which relate more to State and national considerations. Yet this Government has deleted specific purpose grants from local government. In their contributions, Government senators have suggested that this is a fair and equitable way that local government should be financed. 
If that is what we are really about- as the second reading speeches suggest- in improving the lot of local government, I cannot understand the reluctance of Government senators and the Government generally to recognise their responsibilities, in addition to the general purpose grants which give everybody equal allocations, to make additional sums available to bring local government up to some reasonably high level so far as facilities are concerned. If the Federal Government is interested only in containing and just supplementing the rate in order to stop rates increasing, perhaps this legislation reaches its objective. In New South Wales, the State Government has seen fit to move to put a ceiling of 10 per cent per annum on rate increases without the approval of the Minister for Local Government, particularly in view of that large increase which I referred to which had taken place in most local government areas in recent times. 
Let us examine the Liberal Party's policy. Here I have to refer to what  Senator Davidson  said regarding income tax receipts. At least he has recognised the need to change the tax base if local government funding is to be in some way close to the current general purpose grants. We know that political parties, including the Government parties, have committed themselves to reducing income tax in one way or another. The federalism policy is designed to have some sort of relationship- it is of course an unsatisfactory one- to tax indexation. The Government is on record as saying that it supports the system of tax indexation, which has the effect of reducing the tax base for local government in this piece of income tax sharing legislation. Surely, when one thinks of what this Government has done in the current Budget- it has put a tax on petrol and therefore increased its tax revenue by more than $2000m- it is equitable that that ought to be a factor in determining the allocation of funds to local government, because it could well decide to have more  indirect  taxation principles in its next Budget, thus allowing the income tax base to decline further. 
This has to be recognised by the Government. It is certainly recognised by the Labor Party because in our policy and in our first Budget we said that we would maintain the real value of tax revenue to local government at 2 per cent. Of course, that level of tax revenue is completely unacceptable to local government because local government believes it should get more than that. It has suggested that, because of the ever increasing range of responsibilities that are placed upon it and as a result of Federal and State Government policies, it is forced to carry the bag, as it were, and that it ought to have access to an even greater percentage of national revenue and not be tied to the income tax sharing propositions which have been suggested by this Government. In addition to the submission that  Senator Davidson  referred to in his selective presentation of what the Australian Council of Local Government Associations has said, he ignored the fact that the Council has specifically suggested that it is incumbent upon the national Parliament to recognise that there is a possibility that local government can in fact contribute to easing of the unemployment problem. It has drawn the Government's attention particularly to the needs of the adult unemployed. Of course, in referring to that matter it in no way was playing down the problems of youth unemployment. The Council stated: 
Without in any way wishing to play down the especially urgent and worrying aspects of the significant numbers of unemployed juniors, Local Government believes that Governments must take concrete steps to improve work prospects for the 54 per cent of total unemployed who fall into the adult range. Many of these unemployed adults are financially responsible for an entire household. Consequently, the impact of being without work for the adult breadwinner would be greater than for many juniors especially those young people with the financial and emotional support of their own families. 
The Council 's proposal then went on to note:  . . that in most communities throughout Australia, there are pressing needs for public works programs and community services which are unlikely to be met in the foreseeable future from the resources of local councils or voluntary service groups. 
The Council went on to say that the funding of these special unemployment programs should be financed as follows: Fifty per cent from the Commonwealth, 30 per cent from the States and 20 per cent from the sponsoring local authority. There is no way that the funds that will be allocated under this legislation will go towards solving that sort of problem. The amount of money which  Senator Davidson  rather superficially referred to as being some sort of a great handout in fact only holds the line so far as local government work and activity is concerned. For example, the Council recently put forward a scheme to the Government. In addition to that scheme for which it received no support from the Commonwealth Government last week it put forward to the Government a scheme that would provide 25,000 extra jobs on useful work. What reception did it get? 
Let us look at local government in Australia. As at June 1975 it employed 141,000 people. Solely as a result of the decline in the amount of federal funds made available, in spite of a desire to maintain the rate of funding, the local government work force in Australia, as at June 1979, stood at 127,500, which is 13,500 less than the number employed when the last Hayden Budget was presented. The Labor Government gave substantial assistance both by way of general purpose grants and by way of specific purpose grants. In a special article by an economist, H. W. Herbert, which appeared in the  Sunday Mail  of 4 November 1 979 it stated:  the Local Authorities Association put forward a scheme to the Government last week, offering to help by providing 25,000 extra jobs on useful work, what reception did it get? 
No money can be spared for it, said Federal Ministers. 

 Mr Viner, Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs (advised by  Mr Howard  and  Mr Robinson)  said that the benefits to those who would be employed 'are illusory in the end ', and ' could hinder overall economic recovery '. 
If the Ministers have been properly reported, what sort of balderdash and hogwash is the sort of comment that to employ 25,000 people in local government as a result of giving local government extra funds would hinder overall economic recovery? The economist went on to say: 
Those reasons are hard to follow. 
Unemployment is so damaging to those who suffer it that the benefit of work even for six months as proposed can hardly be called 'illusory'. 
The argument that more council jobs could hinder economic recovery rests on the monetarist theory (quite unproven) that the increase in the Budget deficit needed to finance the jobs would increase 'inflationary expectations' and discourage business from expanding. 
It is pretty hard to believe that the $200m the councils asked for would have any appreciable effect on inflation. The domestic deficit would still be cut severely, from $2,258m last year, down to $ 1 , 075m this year (instead of $875m). 
So, when we examine what local government wants to do to make a contribution towards solving the unemployment problem, of course, we are told that its proposals cannot be carried out. Of course, State and local government expenditure on goods and services as a percentage of gross domestic product in the period 1972-73 to 1 978-79 has risen by only a little less than 4 per cent. That is an indication that in this area of government activity unemployment can be shown to be related to the funds that are spent in the State and local government areas. Whilst there has been a small drop in Commonwealth revenue, there has been an increase in State and local government revenue. I seek leave to have two tables incorporated in  Hansard.  They were compiled by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from figures published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911074_47_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from Public Authority Finance: Public Authority Estimates, 1 978-79, published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 

<graphic href="083232197911074_47_1.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from Australian National Accounts: National Income and Expenditure, 1977-78 and Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure, June Quarter 1979, published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment whether his attention has been drawn to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of yesterday's date which suggests that the production of medical isotopes at Lucas Heights, Sydney, can be done much more cheaply and much more safely by a machine known as a cyclotron. Will the Minister undertake an examination of a submission by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for a Hifar reactor in view of the alternative view that isotopes can be produced close to hospitals without the use of nuclear materials at about 10 per cent of the cost of a replacement nuclear reactor? 
I join with and support my colleague and acting leader in opposing the proposition put down by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  When the provisional program was made available to the Parliament it was proposed that we would sit during the whole of November for the purpose of carrying out the legislative responsibilities for which we are elected. No suggestion has been made or proposals put forward by the Government which suggests that we ought not carry out those responsibilities. Maybe the honourable senators who constitute the majority in this place have the same view as  Sir William  McMahon who said that he is sick and tired of the Parliament and that we ought to be rising on 1 5 November. If  Sir William  McMahon and others in this place share that point of view, let them get out of the Parliament if they are not prepared to carry out their task of ably representing the people in the Parliament. Let him not, at 72 years of age, decide to recontest another three-year term in the Parliament. I am sure the same sort of sentiments are prompting  Senator Carrick  when he suggets that we ought to be putting ourselves through the arduous tests of sitting through all night in order to get legislation carried. We know, of course, that at times when that process has been applied and precedents have been broken because of a desire by the Government to meet a certain schedule, the Government then has allowed a Bill to wander around Canberra for several days before it was taken for the signature of the Governor-General, despite the fact that the Opposition wanted to have the opportunity to debate it properly- not in the early hours of the morning at one, two or three o'clock, which is the threat that is hanging over our heads as far as this proposition is concerned. We have been told at this late hour that the Government wants to get certain legislation through, and to do that senators have to be prepared to sit to all hours of the night. In addition to that there is the proposition by  Senator Carrick  that he shall have the right to introduce new business after 10.30. 
What are we trying to do? Are we trying to get the Parliament up on 15 November, or to carry out the second suggestion and get it up on 22 November, and to negate the provisional program which was put down that we would sit through the whole of November? We are not afraid to debate the issues. That is what we are here to do, and that is what we want to do. Numerous speakers have been listed to debate the Budget, for example, and we are informed now in this second or third last week that there will be no further debate on the Budget. So all honourable senators on both sides of the chamber who have not had an opportunity to debate the Budget are told by the Leader of the Government, who seems to be assuming the role of a dictator in this place, that there will not be a debate on the Budget and that we will have to combine that with the debate on the Appropriation Bills. 
Here we are coming into the second week of November and neither the Budget has been passed nor the Appropriation Bills put before the Senate for proper consideration. Take, for instance, one of the Bills for which I have particular responsibility, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, which was presented to this Parliament on 24 May. I can say, almost without fear of contradiction, that it has been on the program every week since the Budget session began. I do not know how many times I have prepared myself for that debate only to find that it has been taken off the program time and again, indicating either that this Government is not interested in getting that piece of legislation through, or that it will be one of those situations where it will be introduced after 10.30 in the evening on a Thursday night, at the end of a long sitting day. 
I think the Government owes the Senate, the Opposition, and the people at large some sort of explanation of why we should be subjected to this sort of harassment. We have offered to cooperate with the Government. That was the yardstick which was applied when we were in government. There was a general agreement and a gentleman's agreement in respect of the way in which the Parliament should operate, even though we were a minority in this place. Very rarely were those agreements broken. But that is not the policy adopted by  Senator Carrick  and the obedient majority that sits behind him, because whatever he does they just obediently and silently follow- maybe ungraciously, but nevertheless giving him the majority. We saw an example of this this morning when matters which were properly within the responsibility of the Senate to debate, matters associated with Indonesian aggression of East Timor, were before the Senate. We saw what happened there and how members of the Government side obviously were dragooned to vote against something in which they believed fundamentally. Some of them had spoken in this place about the sensible way in which  Senator Grimes  presented that matter. 
If that is the way that the Senate is to operate, we protest against it most vehemently. We believe that we have been elected to do a job. We want to do that job, and we want to put into effect the role that the Government, when its members were in opposition, said was the role of the Senate, that is, that the Senate should be a House of review. It is not a House of review if we are subjected to sitting into late hours of the next day for the purpose of debating an issue. All I can say is that if that is the way the Government is to continue to operate in this place as the majority party running the affairs of this country, the sooner it is out, the better. 
The Senate, in debating the issues of racial discrimination and human rights, is really beginning to concern itself about democracy and about the interpretation of democracy as it is applied. We, of course, claim to be a democracy. The word itself needs quite a degree of analysis to see whether in fact our understanding of it is acceptable, because clearly democracy means different things to different people, to different groups and certainly different parties and to different governments. Consequently, if we were to follow through that thinking we could probably come to some interesting conclusions, particularly in relation to what  Senator Bonner  has just said about how those who are discriminated against would see what democracy is really about. It is because of the deficiencies in democracy, as we practice it, that government, responding to some degree of public pressure and demand, has the need to introduce legislation that would extend the principles of democracy and make it a much more meaningful form by which society shall function. 
I am sure that the concept of democracy of the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  would differ from the concept of democracy of  Senator Bonner.  I believe that the concept of democracy of  Senator Missen  would differ fundamentally from the concepts of democracy of even members of his own party. I find that I have a broader concept of what democracy is about than some members of my own party. If we apply the yardstick of what democracy is really about, we need to analyse society itself to see whether in a democratic society power is shared and whether there is a means by which citizens can feel that they participate in the affairs of society and of government, whether it be in the form of representative democracy or participatory democracy. We need to analyse the role that a Lang Hancock has in democracy, as defined in this country, and compare it with the roles of a black or migrant woman or the roles of other disadvantaged groups.  Senator Bonner  referred to an article in the  Bulletin  written by John Singleton. I would say that John Singleton is a person whose concepts of democracy would differ from mine. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
f  Quorum formed).  Before the dinner break I was speaking about the need to see these pieces of legislation in the context of democracy within our country and the fact that we had to introduce such legislation being an indication of some of the deficiencies within our society. The demand for legislation to deal with racial discrimination and human rights is synonymous with demands that are being made in many countries in the world. I believe that we should analyse why this is so. The yardstick that has been applied in almost every country is that there should be a respect for human rights. That movement is perhaps one of the unique developments of the last decade or so. It has been elevated to a much more important principle as far as the rights of citizens are concerned. 
As previous speakers have indicated, this movement has found expression in the Helsinki Accords and in various steps taken by other countries, for instance, at the Bandung Conference. One can go back in time and recall the Bill of Rights and the United Nations Covenants, all of which embodied the concept of the rights of the individual. Despite all of those pronouncements of the past by various countries there is still need to examine human rights more closely and to legislate in order to guarantee them. 
Democracy requires respect for human rights, as it requires acceptance of the rule of law. If we analyse democracy a little further we see that it also demands a society of equality, of a degree of equity for all of its citizens. It requires, too, a degree of tolerance that is not readily found throughout the world, and certainly not in our own country. It requires that we recognise the right of dissent, the right of minorities to exist. The fact that we have to legislate to that end is something of an indictment of those who merely speak of democracy in parrot fashion. We have seen growing evidence of the emergence of a concept which is rooted in the principle that the majority is always right. One is reminded of the oft-used phrase, the tyranny of the majority, the situation in which the majority rides rough-shod over the rights of the minority. We see that happening in Parliament itself. So when we speak of human rights we must examine a wider application than merely the rights of an individual. Individuals come together and then, collectively, their rights are affected by the way in which society operates, the way in which parliament operates, the way in which organisations operate, when the rights of individuals are neither clearly denned nor respected. If one examines the role of the Senate, of the Parliament itself- and one could probably include the State parliamentsone sees a growing example of the tyranny of the majority. I suppose that is why people such as  Mr Killen  and  Senator Puplick  in recent times have pointed out how fragile is our democracy, how the scars remain after certain events. I refer to the occasion on 1 1 November 1975 when the act of one man, coupled with those of a few others, was able to make a great impact upon the political life of this country. 
I suppose that what this legislation is really about is the effort to create in our country conditions that will diffuse power at the top and develop it more strongly at the lower levels of our society. At present it operates against individuals. The rules, traditions and processes of our society operate against the rights of the individual, against minority groups in the community. That is why earlier I referred to the discrimination that existed and the power that, because of the way in which our society is structured, flowed from that discrimination. One cannot say that we live in a democracy or equal society when, for example, even in the reporting of the debates of the Parliament, one person sitting up in the Press Gallery can be said to have a lot more power than one who sits at the table itself, inasmuch as what the former decides to report plays a part in disseminating what is said in this place. Obviously, more power resides in that area. How much more is this true of those who stand behind the one or two journalists who may sit in the Press boxes reporting the affairs of the Parliament and its debates. It is epitomised even more in the power that is concentrated in the media of this country. We witness a concentration of power not only in the newspapers but also in the radio and television stations, a power that spills over into sections of our manufacturing and mining industries. 
Therefore, one cannot say that a black, a migrant or a disadvantaged person has the same rights as has a Lang Hancock, a Fairfax, a Murdoch, a Norman Young or many of the others in places of high importance in the industrial and commercial centres of our society. Even if we look at the way in which the Parliament operates, we can ask what right, really, does a back bencher of a government have in the parliamentary sense in respect of the Executivemembers of his own Party- when compared with the power that a John Stone, for example, wields in the Treasury. Much more power is centred in the hands of those who occupy such important positions in the bureaucracy itself. There is a need to recognise the deficiencies that exist in the society and the need for some public debate, some legislative action, and some better understanding within the community about the power disposition, the power discrimination and the inequality that that brings to the average person in the Australian community. It is small wonder that we have this phenomenon, as I suggest we do have, of a great deal of alienation within our society with people who are not even part of a process by which they can make an impact on the decision-making areas of our society. Of course, they have very little opportunity to have their views heard in the places where decisions have to be made. We know only too well how limited our power is within the Parliament itself, particularly within the constraints which are imposed upon us as members of political parties. 
So there would be no question that we have a very long way to go in really applying the fundamental principles of democracy and of overcoming all the inequalities that exist within our society, of providing a basis by which minority views are heard, listened to, and often understood and acted upon, a basis on which we set ourselves the objective of building a much more tolerant sort of society. I am not suggesting that Australia is any different from any other country, because I think what we have witnessed in recent times is this tremendous world movement towards human rights and against discrimination, and the struggle of the Third World countries to be recognised in the same way as other countries, the realisation that the superpowers should not have the sort of powers that they have to make decisions over life and death, peace and war. So we have a long way to go if we are going to bring about properly a well ordered society in our own country and on a world scale. 
The Government has of recent times taken a very public and, I believe, a very pious stand on human rights. One could give many instances of its different attitudes and double standards in this matter. The Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  trip all around the world,  Mr Fraser  at Lusaka and  Mr Peacock  at the United Nations, preaching the cause of human rights. That is very laudable. It is a very good objective that we should put our case for human rights, wherever we may be. But we must be concerned about the human rights of people wherever they are- not only a lack of human rights in Czechoslovakia or Kampuchea, but also in Timor. I find it quite hypocritical of some members of the Government parties whose prinicipal interest is to concern themselves with human rights in one particular group of countries and not concern themselves about human rights in other countries. Like peace, human rights are indivisible. One cannot have in one's own country a standard that one cannot apply on a world wide scale, and it is those sorts of philosophies that prompt the Labor Party from time to time to take the Government to task about its inability to solve the problem 's of Aborigines in our two way-out States of Western Australia and Queensland. It is the Governments posturing on these matters on the domestic scene that causes many people to make the obvious comment that this posturing smacks of some hypocrisy. 
How can our Government talk about human rights and preach human rights to other countries when we have such a blatant abuse of human rights in our own country. I can give instances of this. I can remember  Senator Murphy,  when he was Attorney-General, contemplating this type of legislation in the early days of the Whitlam Administration. We were at a convention at Parliament House in Sydney concerned with the Constitution. While we were there we met a deputation of Aborigines. They put it to  Senator Murphy  and me that we should come down on a Friday night to have a look at what happens in the pubs around Redfern, and that they should show us exactly how the law operates in terms of discrimination against the human rights of blacks. We saw with our own eyes that at 10 o'clock, when the pub closed, it was the whites who walked away just as much under the influence of alcohol, but it was the blacks who were arrested and charged with being under the influence. Despite the fact that the law stated that every person who is in that state of alcoholism is liable to be arrested and charged, it was not the whites who were taken but, rather, the blacks. 
Of course, we know that this form of discrimination which takes place within the States themselves has been a running sore for a considerable number of years. The treatment of Aborigines in Australia for many years- for the 200 years that we have been on this continent- has been a national disgrace. We are still not satisfied with the way in which this Government has approached the problem in Queensland, particularly in relation to Aurukun and Mornington Island, or that the rights of the Aborigines there have been properly recognised and the obligations of the Federal Government accepted. They have been denied the basic rights of selfmanagement and self-government. That is because the Government has not been prepared to take on the Queensland Government whose attitude towards Aborigines is one to be deplored. One does not need to labour that point, because we are aware that even within the Government there is concern about this. From  Senator Bonner's  contribution this afternoon we know the extent to which police persecute Aborigines in Western Australia. We know how electoral laws in Western Australia are designed principally to discriminate against Aborigines. It was the substance of a notice of motion by my colleague today. It is a form of discrimination, and yet this legislation does nothing to overcome the obstinacy and the refusal of State governments to come into line on the question of human rights and against racial discrimination. 
We can give many examples of this. I remember the first occasion, when I was the  President  of a shire which had to make a moral decision whether the beach at North Cronulla should be available to a South African surf lifesaving club. I was part of the decision that was made by the Sutherland Council at the time to deny the members of the club the use of the beach on the basis that their country practised apartheid. There was conservative criticism in this Parliament about the decision that that council took. It was the first such decision taken by a public body in this country. Subsequently we have seen this Government move to a position where it takes the view that there should be no relationship with governments that practise that type of violation of human rights. This is something that has happened only in the last dozen or so years. So while the Opposition recognises the tentative step that this Government has taken in this legislation, we nevertheless feel that it is purely a first step in a very long march towards an understanding of human rights and ending racial discrimination. I am one who appreciates the fact that we have senators such as  Senator Missen, Senator Puplick  and  Senator Bonner,  and I would hope  Senator Hamer  who will follow me in this debate, and maybe one or two other senators, who will take that extraordinary step that is necessary to strengthen the legislation and to make it just that little bit more effective. 
I appreciate that that is not an easy decision for honourable senators to make. When we have an autocratic Prime Minister and when we know that the party makes decisions, it takes some courage for members to decide to support amendments. However, I suppose I am a little sad that whilst the honourable senators of whom I have spoken have made their effective criticism- in particular a couple of honourable senators who spoke earlier in the debate have been very critical of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and  Mr Ellicott  about their attitudes- nevertheless they have decided to support the Bill. At least they are going to support amendments and I suppose we should be thankful for small mercies. We appreciate that we have a very conservative wing in the Liberal Party and that there are not a great number of its members who are really liberal. 
It is because we are unhappy with the Bill that we are taking a critical stance. It is but a pale shadow of the legislation that we introduced in 1973. This legislation has very few supporters in the Australian community. This is because of the deficiencies that are recognised in the legislation. The legislation has been criticised from all sides. One would have thought that the Government would have taken steps to strengthen the legislation, particularly on the basis of its own party critics. Complaints have come from civil liberty groups, employer groups, church groups, the United Nations Association of Australia, trade unions, a number of important citizens in our community and people in the legal fraternity who know what discrimination means because they have to deal with the rough side of discrimination almost every day in the law courts. 
A close look at this Bill reveals that the proposed Commission will have little practical power to guarantee human rights or to ensure that existing laws are brought into line with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which the Australian Government is on record as saying that it proposes to ratify this year. I know there is a school of thought that suggests that the Commonwealth has limited powers in this area. I suggest that that is a school of thought that ought to be put aside. We ought to say that ratifying the Covenant means that it will be applied and will require the States to apply its basic principles. It is not much use adopting legislation that is concerned only with the Australian Capital Territory. We are concerned about those areas where there is most blatantly a need for legislation and for protection of human rights. To limit the legislation to Commonwealth territories and to free the States of their obligations, to make them immune from the activities of the Commission that it is proposed to set up, is a great weakness and one which renders the legislation largely ineffective. 
It is true that the moral question will be there and that the community will have to take it up at that level to see that the States are finally brought or whipped into line and forced to recognise the logic of the objectives which have been set in the Bill and have been recognised in the international community. We know that 95 per cent of human rights violations take place in the States. It is under State laws that discrimination finds its reflection. It is under State laws that Aborigines are discriminated against and it is under State laws that there is discrimination against women. State laws also discriminate against low income groups. Whilst we can recognise that some progress has been made in some areas to improve the inequalities that exist in those lower strata of society we still recognise that the problem exists and is going to continue to exist because of the deficiencies of this legislation. It might be worth while bringing to the attention of the Senate that it is only within the last 80 or 90 years that State legislation was placed on the statute books which gave women the right to own property. Prior to that they were not permitted to have title to property. We have not moved that far in terms of evolution and technological change when we still have areas of discrimination within society. 
There is a very important quotation that ought to be put into the  Hansard  record. It is a letter received from the Commission for World Mission of the Uniting Church in Australia, which states: 
I want on behalf of this national commission which is responsible for handling Aboriginal, migrant and ethnic affairs in the Uniting Church in Australia to express our strong opposition to the Bills in their present form, for the reasons outlined below. 
The Commission goes on to single out the limited jurisdiction of the proposed Human Rights Commission for particular criticism. It states: 
The powers of the proposed Human Rights Commission are very limited. Its powers are limited to Commonwealth legislation only. It has no power to investigate the violation of human rights under State legislation, and this is where most violations are currently occurring. 
Indeed it appears that the legislation is particularly designed to prevent the Commonwealth Government coming into any conflict with a State Government over a possible human rights infringement under State legislation. 
When I was expressing my views, I was expressing views that are held by one of the most important church organisations in the country. The letter accurately reflects the fear of this Government in respect of certain State Premiers. We know we have two maverick Premiers in Western Australia and Queensland, the States where foreign influence is most pronounced and where mining interests are hell-bent on developing those States. It seems to be of some significance that it is in those two States that we have Premiers and governments that criticise the slightly left of centre position that this Government sometimes finds itself in on matters of national and international importance. 
We have a position in which a lot of concern is being expressed in the community about how far this piece of legislation will go. This is because groups have been set up within the organisations that I have referred to to study the legislation. They believe that it is an important piece of legislation. Whether it be the United Nations organisation, church groups or trade union groups, they have set up groups for the purpose of studying the legislation. They have come to the view that because the Commission has no enforcement powers, merely a conciliatory role, the worst it can do is to make a report to the Minister. The Attorney-General said in his speech that legal sanctions: 
May even provoke antagonism rather than the spirit of cooperation which is so essential in matters of reciprocal rights and obligations. 
The Attorney-General seems to believe that all violations of human rights are committed by a mistake, or happened unnecessarily, that one has only to point out to the violators the error of their ways and they will desist. This, of course, is a 
Utopian,  idealist view of the world. It is certainly an idealist view of the conditions in our own country. We all know, if we know anything of the way officialdom has dealt with the problems of Aborigines in the back-blocks of Australia, that the person at the level of making the decision is the one who often practices the discrimination. We all know the same thing applies with regard to minority groups. We say that most violations of human rights are committed with a deliberate and malicious intent and that no amount of persuasion and argument will deter the offenders. The ultimate power of legal penalty must be vested in the Commission for it to have any effectiveness. If one has a problem of discrimination, it has to be examined to see why that power is exerted in such a way to create the act of discrimination. Discrimination is created because it is inherent in the very system in which we live. Those who have more than others must, perforce the whole process, get it from others. Those who exercise more power than others must have it to laud it over others. That is the process by which our society operates. 
To suggest that we should enact legislation at the Commonwealth level without following it through right down the line in a way that makes the practising of discrimination and denial of human rights an offence is to forsake our responsibilities. I would hope that there is a majority of people in Australia who would accept the principle that the human being is more important than the State. Human dignity has to be recognised as the principal objective. Laws should be made to place those principles in the forefront of the way this society operates. The theories of democracy and the way democracy operates ought to be examined in the light of the thousands and thousands of cases of discrimination that appear. 
I just draw the attention of the Senate to the case involving the young lady in Melbourne who wants to become an airline pilot. She had to take on one of the big corporations in the country. She had to have the courage to take on the Ansett empire. She won some proceedings in her legal struggle and was then taken to another jurisdiction. Is it suggested that an equal fight, an equal struggle, is being waged in this case and that she has the same rights as the management of Ansett? Of course she does not. Ansett has resources, hundreds of millions of dollars, behind it. 
That is right. It still wants that whip hand despite the favourable decisions she won in legal jurisdictions. Of course, as  Senator Puplick  has rightly said in this debate, we do not want to be in a position where these matters are resolved in just a purely legal way. We have to fight for the principle of equality and the rights of the individual. These things should become an automatic process, not a process that has to be worked out and which involves spending $10,000, $15,000 or $20,000 to establish what ought to be the fundamental principle of any decent democratic society. All the unfavourable publicity that goes with that deters other people from exercising their democratic rights. So, when we talk about human rights we are not just talking about some nebulous, airy-fairy pieinthesky; we are talking about a fundamental aspect of the way society ought to operate. 
One could go on to talk about the various objectionable clauses in this legislation. Clause 10 (4) (f) states that the Human Rights Commission may decide against an inquiry if 'the complainant does not have a sufficient interest in the subject-matter of the complaint.'. That will give some nebulous group or person the opportunity to make it even more difficult for the ordinary citizen to become involved in an inquiry when he or she suffers from discrimination. Clause 15 (2) (b) allows the Attorney-General to withhold evidence. Surely the public interest rather than the political interest or the so-called national interest, or maybe even the political prejudice, should be seriously considered in this legislation. 
Are we to be confronted with what is now happening in the case involving the legal wrangle over social security frauds in respect of which Federal police admitted to breaking the law and admitted to the fact that they did things that were not authorised? If other citizens commit these misdemeanours they have to pay the price. Where is the equity in that sort of situation? Sooner or later we must reach a stage in our society whereby those who break the law no matter what position they are in or for whatever reason must pay the penalty. So often it is those at the lower end of the scale who are discriminated against. On the other hand, an inspector of police, or a person holding some other senior position, or some unknown person, as happened in the case of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Amendment Bill introduced by this Government, is given the right to sit in judgment upon his fellow citizens and determine the rights and wrongs of his actions. 
With no scrutiny at all. Not even the Attorney-General or the Parliament have to be consulted. By this legislation I recognise that we are taking a very limited step. That is all it is. To say that it is more than that would be to gild the lily very considerably because this legislation will not put an end to racial discrimination. This legislation will be no more than a moral decision by this Parliament to establish some broad principles about what should be the human rights of individuals in our country. 
Yes, that too could be the case. If we pride ourselves on having a democratic society we have to accept the obligations that that places upon us. We have to look at all the established practices, traditions and processes by which society operates if we want to be able to stand up in this place and say that we perform properly and adequately. We have an obligation to define the areas of discrimination and the areas in which human rights are threatened and prejudiced as a result of the way our society operates. If we do that then maybe we can look ourselves in the face and say that we have really carried out our pioneering job of establishing legislation which will generate, in the grass roots of our country, in our communities and in the organisations that our community produces, the sort of understanding that will bring about a much strengthened type of democratic society. We ought to be seeing this legislation purely as a bit of pioneering work that ultimately has to be supplemented and complemented by State legislation. All of us, whatever political party we belong to and whatever label may be pinned upon us, have an obligation to see that we carry out our responsibilities and that the States ultimately pass the sort of legislation that makes ratification of covenants on civil and political rights not just a stamp on a piece of paper. This step is being taken to bring about a realisation in the Australian community that all people, as stated by so many international decision-making bodies, such as the United Nations in its Universal Declaration of Human Rights and so on, are born equal. All people have to be treated properly. All people are entitled to engage in legitimate political activity. All people have a right of free assembly, a right to express themselves and a right to participate in all of the important decisions that determine their fate. If this Bill plays some minor part in achieving that I suppose we can be thankful. The Opposition sees the deficiencies and weaknesses in the Bill but we have finally come to the realisation that with the support of a few of the Liberals in the conservative parties we might strengthen it by passing some of the important amendments we intend to move during the Committee stage. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: As a matter of general principle, does the Government believe that senior officers of the Australian Federal Police are immune from prosecution if they transgress Federal law or regulations? 
I rise to support  Senator Grimes'  motion. 
I do not propose to canvass the detailed case that he set out for the consideration of the Senate. One would hope that the Senate would deal with the matter on the basis of the evidence available and not on party lines. We are not questioning the sincerity of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  or the need for the supervision of social security payments. We are questioning the Minister's failure to carry out her responsibilities so far as Parliament is concerned. For 18 months the Opposition, on scores of occasions, has probed and probed the Minister concerning the circumstances of that tremendous raid, which involved 100 Commonwealth Police, on the night of Friday, 31 March 1978.I submit to the Senate that the Minister has been recreant to her responsibilities. The questions that were asked of her, and the debates that ensued in this place, must surely have awakened in her the need for some follow-through, the need to pose to her Department and its head questions about the allegations and statements that had been made in the Senate respecting the social security shemozzle that took place some 18 or 19 months ago. She must accept some responsibility. Many of her answers to questions have been proven to be inadequate; indeed, possibly they could be described as having misled the Parliament. 
The Opposition can assert without equivocation that in respect to this whole matter someone has lied. We cannot assert at this stage that the Minister has done more than mislead the Senate, but on every occasion when she has been asked questions to establish who was responsible for the activities which subsequently took place she has resorted to the subterfuge of saying 'I am so advised', or 'My advice is . . . ' That advice has been proved to be palpably untrue. Therefore the Department, the departmental head, the Commonwealth Police or a combination of these, gave the Minister answers that can now be described as being of such a nature as to have misled the Parliament. 
The role of the Opposition is to probe the Government, to use the forms of the Senate to establish the truth or otherwise of statements made in the Parliament, outside of the Parliament and, as is the subject of discussion now, in the law courts in Sydney, New South Wales. From the debates that have ensued one can only come to the conclusion that in respect of this whole matter there has been a massive cover-up. We cannot assert with certainty at this stage whether one or more of three Ministers, the Minister for Social Security, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  or the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay),  who is responsible for the activities of the Commonwealth Police, is responsible for the misinformation that has been given to this Parliament. It is no good the Minister for Social Security and the AttorneyGeneral, in an effort to obtain temporary relief from the need to answer questions, stating that they have not yet seen the transcripts. The evidence shows that the Department of Social Security has been involved in this exercise for some 20 months. 
A scenario has been established which shows that Chief Inspector Thomas, the Assistant Commissioner of Police,  Mr Davis  and  Mr Lanigan  were involved in some of the discussions which led to the massive raid on 3 1 March 1978, which Chief Inspector Thomas has described as being the biggest single police operation against criminals in Australian police history. He has also, on a television program, made the statement that he and his officers had access to some hundreds of thousands of files in the Department of Social Security. Given that kind of evidence one would imagine that the Department was involved, that  Mr Lanigan  knew of all of the circumstances of this whole exercise. Yet we are led to believe, on the basis of the answers that  Senator Guilfoyle  has given- even as late as today- that he was not concerned as to who was the informant who was subsequently offered a bribe which began at $20,000 and finally reached the magnificent sum of $200,000. Does the Minister really claim that she expects the Parliament to believe that she was not concerned about whether that money was spent properly? We are talking about taxpayers' funds. Does she expect us to believe that  Mr Lanigan  would not ask the essential question? Does she not believe that it is part of the responsibility of the Parliament, of members on both sides, to know of circumstances that would result in the offering of a bribe of $200,000 for the purpose of establishing a criminal - 
I will refer, then, to the offer of money in respect to this particular incident. Surely the offering of funds is something on which the Parliament is entitled to have information? That information has not been freely made available. Surely, on the record of this matter over the last 20 months, the Minister must accept some responsibility. She knew of the concern of the Opposition, which I am sure she would not deny was genuine. She knew of the concern that was being exhibited in the Greek community of New South Wales. She knew that that also was a genuine concern. Therefore, she had an obligation to follow through the detailed questions that were asked- questions obviously coming from those who knew something about this massive operation in respect to alleged social security frauds which Inspector Thomas has described as one which would involve thousands of people. 
If the Opposition shows concern and continues to ask questions on this matter, if it seeks information, it is not enough for the Minister to come to the Parliament and merely say 'My advice is . . .'-suggesting that at that point her responsibility ends. She had an obligation to herself, to the Government, to the Department and to the Parliament to establish the veracity or otherwise of the statements that were being made, and the questions that were being asked. If the Minister is prepared to say that the questions that are now unfolding as a result of the action that is taking place in Sydney at the moment - 
If the Minister is prepared to say that these matters are not within the province of debate in the Parliament, that is one thing. She tends to put the responsibility in somebody else's corner and to say that she or her departmental head have not been advised. When we ask questions of the Attorney-General or of the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services we are given specious answers which in no way establish the circumstances that led to this extraordinary state of affairs. When we find evidence that persons do not know what their obligations are in respect of telephone tapping and when we receive no response at all from the Government about that matter, the concern of the Opposition must surely be expressed by this sort of motion. What has happened is that steps have been taken against those who have transgressed, those who have illegally received social security payments. 
These steps have been taken on the evidence of a person whose veracity or integrity we do not know. When we look at - 
Thank you,  Mr President.  What is involved here is the integrity and the probity of the Minister in terms of her ministerial responsibility and the standards which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said he expects all members of his Cabinet to respect. When we look at the evidence which has been unfolding over the last 1 8 months, we can only come to the conclusion that we have a very unsatisfactory state of affairs involving the Department and the Commonwealth Police. When we look at the defence which the Minister put forward today we can say that she is endeavouring to defend herself and her Department by suggesting that the actions that were taken were not in her area of responsibility. If that is the case, we must ask: Where does the area of responsibility lie? 
When we look at what has actually taken place, at the transgression, the misdemeanour, we have to compare it with the minor transgression, the minor misdemeanour, of  Senator Withers  upon which the Prime Minister took action and which was of considerably less importance than this matter which is now exciting interest outside the Parliament and in the Parliament. This matter concerns the probity of the Minister and the responsibility that the Minister should take. It concerns whether her Department has kept her informed and whether it has pressurised the Commonwealth Police into taking the sort of action that it took, which has proved to be a flamboyant action, the legality of which there is considerable doubt about. 
When the Department brought pressure to bear on the Commonwealth Police in respect of this matter, surely there was a tremendous obligation on the Department and the Minister to be fully informed about the matter. What are the circumstances? The Minister said that she received certain information from her Department. The Department said that it was not properly advised and did not know all the circumstances in which the operation took place. The Department is saying that it knows nothing of the circumstances involving some of the evidence that we have seen develop in recent times. This is a very strange set of circumstances. The Department initiated the exercise and made thousands of its files available to the investigating officers, but a department which is supposed to be supervising public funds- that has been the purpose of the exercise- has not seen fit to inform the Minister fully. That is the Minister's defence. 
I would say that the Minister is culpable in that in not noting the concern of the Parliament, of the Greek community and of the concerted way in which the Opposition has sought information in respect of this matter- that has been the nature of the probing and the questions that have been asked over the last 20 months in seeking information- surely she has failed to meet the requirements of the Prime Minister in respect of her activities as a Minister. That is precisely the documented case that  Senator Grimes  has put to the Senate, that on numerous occasions the Minister, through subterfuge or long-winded answers to questions, has sought to evade the questions that have been asked of her. 
I think that is a very mild word when I consider the words which were used in this place against Prime Minister Whitlam and other members of the Labor Government. 

 - Mr President, if you find the word 'subterfuge' offensive, of course I will withdraw it. All I can say is that the Minister's answers to questions, which have been honestly asked of her, have certainly been evasive and unsatisfactory. I do not say that lightly because I respect the Minister. I have no reason to doubt her personal sincerity in this matter, but as a Minister of the Crown she has a responsibility to inform the Parliament properly about matters which have been raised constantly with her over the last 18 months. I believe she has failed miserably to appreciate the significance of the concern of the Opposition in the questions that have been asked. All honourable senators from New South Wales have received representations from members of the Greek community and from people of Greek origin which indicate that, in the period of the flamboyancy and of the whole atmosphere that was created as a result of this massive raid on 31 March last year, members of the Greek community felt that every person to whom they spoke felt they were involved somehow or other in criminal activity. 
I appreciate that when I asked questions of the Minister she made it very clear that in no way was this whole exercise or her involvement in it designed to embarrass members of the Greek community. Of course, if we examine what the newspapers and the media had to say at the time, we find that the matter was the subject of front page stories in the mass circulation newspapers and was covered on programs such as  This Day Tonight  and all the other programs dealing with issues of public interest. It was an issue which involved every person who in some way or another was influenced by the media at that time. The exercise was planned by the Commonwealth Police in conjunction with the Department of Social Security, not only in respect of the period immediately prior to 31 March 1978 but also subsequently. Detective Chief Inspector Thomas admitted through the media that his officers had inspected hundreds of thousands of files. That could have been done only with the consent of the head of the Department of Social Security. That is the same Inspector Thomas who was quoted in newspaper after newspaper articles as stating that thousands of people would be arrested and that there was a gigantic rip-off of social security payments. 
It was in that atmosphere and on the basis of representations made to us by members of the Greek community that we asked questions of the 
Minister. Those people were the innocents, as it turned out, because fewer than 200 people were finally charged. The innocence of even the people who were suspected has been established beyond any shadow of doubt, as well as the innocence of all the other members of the Greek community who were under a cloud, as it were, because of their Greek origin. 
In those circumstances, surely we are entitled to say that the Minister had an additional responsibility, an additional obligation to this Parliament to seek the facts in respect of the planning of the operation, the facts in respect of the activities of Inspector Thomas and the facts in respect of the way in which the Minister's departmental head operated. Yet on every occasion, without exception, when questions were asked of the Minister in an attempt to establish the truth or otherwise of the statements made by police officers and of reports of the alarmist and distorted manner in which the act was perpetrated, the Minister failed to give us any sort of assurance which established beyond any reasonable doubt that the exercise was not the biggest criminal raid in police history but was in fact of less significance than had been suggested. 
What we now find unfolding is confirmation of the matters about which questions were asked. As investigations were carried out, those who were involved in them began to see the falseness of the allegations and to see that the matter had been blown up out of all proportion- that in fact endeavours had been made to make scapegoats of some people and- keeping within your ruling,  Mr President-  heroes of others. In those circumstances, surely the Parliament is entitled to ask: What really happened? What were the circumstances which led to that unfortunate development?' Parliament is entitled to know whether in fact the head of the Department,  Mr Lanigan,  resorted to evasion or subterfuge; whether in fact the head of the Department has placed the Minister in an unenviable and unfortunate position; whether in fact the head of the Department has misled the Minister. The Minister has not replied to that. 
The circumstances do show that somewhere someone has not acted truthfully in regard to this matter, that somewhere someone has lied to the appropriate persons, whether it be this Minister or other Ministers, in respect of this matter. Under the traditions of the Westminster system, a Minister accepts responsibility for what happens within that Minister's department. In this case, the Minister has that responsibility against the background of the consistent probing that has taken place in this Parliament. If we had asked a question on this subject back in April last year, asked another question perhaps in April this year and asked another question on 13 November, one could say that perhaps the Minister was entitled to some leeway, that she is entitled to seek further information. But the Minister is not an unintelligent person; she is a very responsible member of this Government. The Minister is in a senior position in this Government. The Minister is in charge of one of the most important departments in the Federal Government. She has constantly been asked questions about all of the circumstances which  Senator Grimes  dealt with at great length. 

 Senator Grimes has been persistent, consistent and fair in the questions he has asked. He has sought information, which is the primary responsibility of a senator. A senator has a responsibility to ask questions, to seek information and to establish what really is going on.  Senator Grimes,  the shadow Minister for Social Security and a senior member of the Opposition, and various other members of the Opposition have asked questions based on our experiences in Sydney, based on representations which have been made to us by persons who have felt the whiplash of Commonwealth Police activities in the matter and the flamboyance of the raid on 3 1 March last year. The Minister's answers have been unsatisfactory, evasive and of a nature that prompts us to believe that more is involved in the story than meets the eye. 
We do not have any hesitation in saying that the censure motion is not directed against  Senator Guilfoyle  as an individual, as a senator, but is directed against her as a Minister of this Government, as a Minister who has failed to appreciate the concern of the Opposition and as a Minister who has taken extraordinary steps to evade and avoid answering directly the questions which have been fairly put to her in order that we might establish whether the allegations made to us by our constituents were truthful and factual. 
In those circumstances, the Minister must accept that, on behalf of the community which has been affected by that exercise, we are entitled, we are obliged and it is part of our responsibility to express in the manner in which we have our concern about her negligence, wilful or otherwise, and her failure to accept responsibility for the manner in which her Department has operated in the whole affair. 
We have no pleasure in doing this, but we have a responsibility to have these matters properly debated. We have used the forms of the House, we have used all the means available to us, to seek the sort of information which would establish the truth or otherwise of allegations. In fact, we are in a worse position now than we were when we asked questions in April 1978. We find that there has been illegal phone tapping, that there have been transgressions by senior persons acting on behalf of the Government and that the Government is not able properly to sustain the position it has taken, nor has the Minister been able adequately to defend the actions taken on behalf of the Government. To that extent we, as an opposition, are entitled to move a censure motion against the Minister. 
Lest it should be felt that the Opposition is somewhat reticent about the amendment moved by  Senator Missen,  let me assure the Senate that it has the wholehearted support of the Opposition. I think that this is a unique debate in that so far no member of the Government has opposed the amendment or supported the proposition contained in the Bill. In fact every  speaker,  possibly with the exception of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  when he speaks in reply, will support the basic thrust of  Senator Missen  's amendment. Of course, as the speakers from the Government side who have supported the amendment have said, the amendment is quite integral to the whole thrust of the legislation. Without this we tend to nullify the objectives that may be said to be part of the strategy of the legislation. I agree substantially with the views that have been expressed by all those who have spoken. I find that I do not disagree greatly with the contribution that was made by  Senator Puplick.  We are, in fact, dealing with principles and fundamentals in respect to the racism that exists in our community. It is deep seated. It is historic. It is not something that is going to go away without a great deal of effort on the part of members on all sides of the Parliament and without a degree of education of the Australian community. 
Therefore, it is encouraging that we can anticipates possibly, that this amendment will be agreed to by the Senate and that the office and the role of the Commissioner for Community Relations will be recognised as an essential requisite of this legislation. If we look at the history of our country we note that every time there have been periods of economic stress- perhaps the most noticeable periods were the 1 860s, the 1 890s, and 1929- it has always been the dis- advantaged, those who are different from other members of the community, who have been the first casualties. That is what is happening today. There is no question that it is largely the disadvantagedmainly the migrant communities, the women in the migrant communities and the unskilled workers in the black sections of our communitywho are the first to feel the thrust arising from an economic downturn. 
It is in this period that the Government and the Parliament have to accept the responsibility of providing a framework so that those affected by the discrimination that is taking place every day in every facet of our society can ventilate their complaints and experiences in a way that they feel will be understood and in a way that makes them feel part of the Australian community. Of course, the person holding the office of Commissioner for Community Relations has to be a person with great compassion, a person with energy, a person with the capacity to apply initiative, a person devoted to the principles of human rights, and a vigilant person. He must be capable of seeking out and encouraging people discriminated against to believe that they have an avenue by which they can ventilate their problems and the acts of discrimination. We do not want on the Commission or in this office people who pay lip service to the principles of human rights. We want people with deep understanding who are prepared to take on officialdom. Because of the way in which this country developed, officialdom is a major part of the problem that we have to face. This applies particularly in the bureaucracy, and I say that without putting the whole blame on the bureaucracy. But it is in these areas where much of the discrimination, based upon the whole historical development of our country takes place. 
We have to recognise that racism is the very base of the struggle for human rights. The manifestations that we see in the reports that are given to the Parliament indicate the depth of the problem we have to face. Whether  Mr A.  J. Grassby holds the statutory position, I think, is beside the point. However one would hope that a government, whatever its political complexion, would recognise that in him we have a person who has been identified with the problem. He has created in the minds of those affected by racism that they have a friend, that there is an office and a person to whom they can turn. It is an incredible fact that countless thousands of people feel that  Mr Grassby  is a friend to whom they can turn. One would expect that the Government would put aside party political considerations. I am very gratified that that is the way in which the Senate is dealing with this matter. We are really not concerned with the individual; we are concerned with the principle. It so happens that in dealing with the principle there is a problem in the minds of some members of parliament about the personality of the person to hold the office. Surely the Senate will rise above that problem. I believe it will. 
I think that to some extent we can probably agree with  Senator Puplick;  it is a transitory position, although perhaps not in the sense that he might express it. Perhaps in 10 years time there will be somebody else, assuming  Mr Grassby  gets this appointment. It would be detrimental to the cause of human rights if he is not appointed. We would hope that there would be enough understanding in the Cabinet to recognise that fact. If members of the Cabinet were able to recognise that fact, the objectives which this legislation seeks to achieve might well be realised. 
We have to understand that when we talk about human rights and racism we are dealing with part of the Australian makeup. I can speak of this in a personal sense because my father was a migrant. He migrated to Townsville. My father can tell me of countless instances of discrimination, cruelty and barbarism on the part of the people at the turn of the century and right up to World War I. He can tell me of what happened to a person with my surname living in the deep north of Queensland. In addition, I now have an adopted child of mixed race. I know what my child has to go through at school and wherever he goes. I know of the discriminatory remarks and treatment that is meted out to that child just because he is different from the others. It happens because he is the only child at that school of a different colour, not so much because he is of a different race. I relate that experience only because of the point raised by  Senator Puplick.  This type of thing will be the general experience. The Asians who come to this country are going to be placed in a somewhat similar position as my child. 
There is no question that social tensions are created as a result of the downturn in the economy and the feeling that migrants displace Australians in jobs. Many migrants do menial tasks which Australians will not accept, such as work required by the public authorities, the water boards and railways. My colleague  Senator Mulvihill  acknowledges that they tend to become the butt of that sort of reaction because they are working and Australians are not working. We find it expressed very considerably in Great Britain where many of the tasks that are performed in the public sector of the economy are performed by those people who have migrated to Great Britain from the West Indies and in the social tensions that are created as a result of seeing them perform the tasks that they do. So it becomes more and more vital to stress to the Government, to the executive of the Parliament- the Cabinet- that the person who holds this office of Commissioner for Community Relations shall be a member of the Commission. In the period that lies ahead, as indeed in the period that we are talking about, that experience, that understanding, that safety valve which are available there are at the moment to those disadvantaged people in our community, should be available to those who are suffering discrimination; they should have the opportunity of appealing to this person. One would hope, therefore, that the unique debate that is taking place here this evening will result in the adoption of this amendment. 
I think the Government has to concede that there is genuine concern in the Australian community about the problems of radioactive waste management and that, in fact, on all occasions when this matter has been checked by the pollsters a degree of concern and apprehension has been shown as to the actions the Government will take in protecting not only the present environment but also the future environment. Unfortunately, the history of waste management policy as far as this Government is concerned has been one of great deception of the Australian people. This report continues that deception which has been perpetrated not only by the Government but also by business, particularly the mining sector and sections of the Australian mass media. We believe that the report by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council is biased and wrong. Consequently we will be studying this report in great detail. 
Let us look at some of the comments in the statement made by the Minister that has been tabled. It is brief, but I concede that he has to table a summary of what has been said in the report. It does say that the technology for the short term storage of waste exists. Yet we have the situation in plants throughout the world, from Windscale right across to Japan, that leaks have occurred and drums of waste have been dumped off-shore. Much of that waste is simply buried. There is evidence that houses are built on top of it because of the failure of the Government to recognise its social responsibilities. At the same time we have to recognise the huge and growing size of the problem which means the needs of communities will increasingly conflict with a safe community. 
In regard to permanent management, which has already been referred to, the report is dangerously wrong. The strategy for dealing with long term wastes was presented in the report and still requires those wastes to be reprocessed; that needs to be stressed to the Government. The alternative proposed by the Ford Foundation report, one of those so-called expert bodies referred to in the report, is to encapsulate and bury spent fuel rods. Even that suggestion has been rejected by the nuclear industry as being inadequate. There are now commercially viable reprocessing plants throughout the world. As  Senator Mason  said, the only one that we know of in the Soviet Union is reported to have blown up in the early 1960s. Of course, more recently the United States Government suspended reprocessing at its plants due to safety and other problems. So, it is not good enough for the Government to take the rather simplistic view that I believe it still accepts in presenting this report. It should be pointed out that Professor Ringwood of the Australian National University, in proposing his synroc strategy, has argued: 
The important point about disposal of  radwaste  in glass, and specifically the emplacement of glass in salt formations, is that we are dealing with a situation which is not readily predictable in the long term on the basis of existing scientific principles and practices. 
In summarising his proposal, Professor Ringwood states: 
The currently favoured technology of incorporating wastes in borosilicate glass, followed by deep burial in geological formations is shown to be suspect because the glass is very likely to devitrify, thereby greatly increasing the solubility of radioactive waste elements in ground water. 
Surely these are matters of considerable concern to the Government; certainly they are of considerable concern to the Parliament and to the Australian community. France, which claims to be advanced in its nuclear technology, has not yet identified a site for the disposal of vitrified waste. In fact, in response to a question placed on notice by the honourable member for Reid,  Mr Tom  Uren, about what measures the French had taken to dispose finally of vitrified wastes, the best answer that the Minister for National Development,  Mr Kevin  Newman, could give was: 
Preliminary investigations into the suitability of salt and granite formations in France for ultimate disposal of solidified high level waste have commenced. 
All the Minister was able to say was that preliminary inquiries had commenced. The report itself recognises how unpredictable the process of waste disposal is. On the last page of the report it is stated that we will have to wait until the sites are built before we can know if it will work. So, there is a great deal of uncertainty. In discussing the solution proposed by this report, the Californian Energy Commission stated that the work was:   . . constrained by a certain lack of fundamental scientific knowledge in the application of the earth sciences to the problem. As a result, current plans and engineering regimes require a departure from the scientific method and substitute engineering hypothesis and belief for scientific understanding. This engineering approximation requires scientific validation. 
The nuclear waste problem is not restricted to the management of high level wastes derived from spent fuel. The decommissioning and disposal of spent nuclear reactors is, in itself, a complex and unsolved problem which is not dealt with by the so-called new developments in Sweden and France. In its April 1978 report on nuclear power costs, the United States Congressional Committee on Government Operations concluded: 
After 30 years of nuclear power development, technology to dismantle a large commercial reactor has not yet been demonstrated and the costs of dismantling such a reactor are still unknown. 
Finally, it should be noted that the report deals almost exclusively with technical issues and therefore it is very difficult for the layman and for members of the Parliament to understand completely what the scientists have in mind. Nevertheless, sufficient evidence is available to us to show that there is a wide body of opinion amongst the scientific world in regard to the safety aspects of the disposal of radioactive waste. It is clearly the case that if one generation can bury nuclear waste, another generation can knowingly or unknowingly disturb the same waste. In this respect all the proposed methods of nuclear waste disposal commit society to some degree of surveillance in perpetuity. The question of who accepts the social responsibility for what the scientists may finally decide is not even raised in the summary of the report put down by  Senator Webster.  This requirement carries political, social and moral implications which cannot be ignored. It is also the case that nuclear programs are in progress and that these entail large amounts of deadly waste being in circulation, requiring a high degree of surveillance to guard against human fallibility and mal-intent. This in itself, I submit, requires a measure of social control which can only erode civil liberties and hard-won industrial rights and which obviously threatens the environment if governments do not see their responsibility to adopt a policy and a process which protect not only the present environment but also the environment in the thousands of years that lie ahead. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted. 
I  apologise for the short delay, but the Opposition was incorrectly informed that this Bill was not being proceeded with.  I  think it is fair to say that we were entitled to draw that conclusion considering the fact that the Bill was first presented to the Senate in May of this year and has been on and off the agenda for a consistent period. 
Yes, we have just sorted it out. I was looking for the amendment that was brought into this House last week and taken out because the matter was not proceeded with as the Government rearranged its business. The purpose of the amendment is to ask the  Senator to  express the opinion that this legislation, which deals with Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory should also encompass land rights for the Aboriginals in the Australian Capital Territory. It might not be understood clearly by the Senate that there are Aboriginal land right claims operating in the southern part of the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, there are matters that require the consideration of the Government and the consideration of appropriate legislation. The amendment which I propose to move on behalf of the Opposition is in the following terms:  . . but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should as soon as possible extend by legislation the rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory to Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory. 
We are somewhat at a loss to understand why there has been this long delay on land rights legislation, in the absence of information and in the absence of any endeavours by the Government and its Minister to explain to the Senate why it has taken six months for this matter to be proceeded with. The original second reading speech having been presented towards the latter end of the autumn session of Parliament, here we are virtually in the last week or so of this session without any explanation for the constant removal of the legislation from the business paper. I will be inviting the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  to make some comments as to the reasons for that delay. I am not able, in the absence of any inside information, to know whether my deductions are borne out, whether my own views or the views of my party are correct, that, in fact, there are some difficulties for the Government as it relates to the States' inability to appreciate what the national Parliament is doing about the problems of Aboriginal affairs where they relate particularly to the relatively new issue of land rights. 
I refer in this context to the statement that was issued on 13 November by the Minister himself which is titled 'The Examination of Land Rights Legislation'.  Mr Barry  Rowland has been appointed and he will visit the Northern Territory later this month to conduct his examination of representations received by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in the practical operation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. That statement follows a public pronouncement by  Senator Chaney  on 24 October last regarding  Mr Rowland's  appointment. There are some eight or nine issues which  Mr Rowland  is being asked to examine. I think it would be fair to comment that they arise as a result of representations that most probably have been brought to the attention of the Government as a result of either deputations or disagreements that might exist in respect of the land rights legislation, its operation and the reluctance of the present majority in the Northern Territory Government to accept the views of the national Parliament. One does not need to stress the point that in more recent times we have seen the Aboriginal people beginning to express, in a much more determined and consistent fashion, their views of land rights. We recognise that this has come 200 years after the white civilisation drove the Aboriginal people from their original holdings and concentrated them in particular areas in certain parts of our continent. 
We are aware that there is a conflict here between the policies of the Parliament and the policy of the Government and there is reluctance on the part of the States, including the Northern Territory Government, to accept the overwhelming view of the Australian people. The Aborigines have been browbeaten and driven off their lands and have suffered greatly as a result of their many experiences with the development of civilization in the continent of Australia. However, they fought back and were given some recognition by the Australian community as to their plight and their growing consciousness as a group of indigenous people. After a long and arduous struggle the Aborigines have finally achieved control to a greater or lesser extent over the remaining lands. That is a matter of some contention by the various mining interests in Australia and has caused contention between some of the more reluctant State governments. I would hope that the Minister would give us some explanation for the delay and for his Press statement several days ago. From the Labor Party's point of view we believe that we are probably witnessing something of a counter-attack by those forces in the Australian community who believe, when it comes to the question of development and rights of development on Aboriginal lands, that there has to be a recognition of the latter day claimants as against the original claimants. So there is a need for the Parliament to join forces with the Aborigines for the purpose of protecting their achievements in their struggle for the fundamental principles of land rights. 
In Queensland we have witnessed numerous blatant exercises by self-interested groups and land grabs by aluminium companies which are ably assisted by a very oppressive and racist government which, when it comes to the question of whose rights have to be recognised, seems invariably to go against the Aborigines. We have witnessed similar difficulties in Western Australia and have also witnessed, unfortunately, the disenfranchisement of Aborigines and the systematic denial of their democratic rights.  Sir Charles  Court and his Government under the guise of trying to ensure that Aborigines are not open to manipulation have taken the step- I would hope a desperate and unsuccessful attempt- of trying to deny Aborigines their basic fundamental right of being enrolled and participating in parliamentary elections. This has already led to a number of attempts by that Government to try to place obstacles in the way of enrolment of Aborigines. 
The Western Australian Minister for Health and Community Welfare,  Mr Ridge,  who holds the seat of Kimberley, has admitted in a Western Australian newspaper that the Liberal Party devised and executed a plan deliberately aimed at denying Aborigines in the Kimberleys an effective vote. The attitude  Mr Ridge  took is often expressed in some of the States of our Commonwealth. I am sure that this is part of the problem the national Parliament is having. He went on to say that he had to campaign amongst the Aborigines to the extent that he did. One can read into that an expression of racism, that he regarded it as a somewhat degrading experience. For a Minister of the Crown to find it degrading to mix with Aborigines who are, after all, his voters and constituents seems to me to be related to the problems we were discussing yesterday on the racial discrimination and human rights legislation.  Mr Ridge  is reported as saying: 
I believe that we now have enough evidence to try and convince people of the necessity for amending the Electoral Act in relation to illiterate voters. 

 Mr Ridge concluded in a shameful display of a callous politicking with the claim that if changes to the Act were not made there could be 3,000 to 4,000 Aborigines on the roll by the next election, in which case, I quote him, the Liberal Party would be doomed to failure. One can see the political connotation of those sorts of statements. The Opposition notes the response of the Court Government and its attempts now to exclude these people by some simple expedience from the electoral process. That is not the understanding that the Opposition has of democracy. It is certainly democracy Court style and it is democracy which ought not be accepted in this country. The National Aboriginal Conference has strongly condemned the Court Government for its latest attack on the basic rights of blacks. The Chief Electoral officer in that State,  Mr Foreman,  has stated that he does not believe that there was any undue duplication of the names of nomadic or illiterate voters on electoral rolls. Nevertheless, the Court government is attempting to use the relative lack of English verbal ability possessed by Western Australian Aborigines to disenfranchise them. On 15 May this year an article in the  Australian Financial Review  stated: 
The proposed amendments will at best create difficulties for Aborigines wishing to vote in State elections and at worst disenfranchise illiterate Aboriginals wishing to register a postal vote. 
Nowadays, it is usual to describe the treatment of blacks by the Queensland and Western Australian governments as being somewhat paternalistic. The assumption is that although the laws may be discriminatory, their purpose is well intentioned. In respect of this piece of legislation one is entitled to wonder how well intentioned are the Government's objectives. That sort of paternalistic approach is the approach of the apologist. The Opposition interprets it as being racist. It seems to me that we should never hesitate to say so. Even though we appreciate that it might not be competent for the Minister to make those sorts of statements, I think it is within our competence in this Parliament to point the finger where it really ought to be pointed- at those people who, in fact, have racist attitudes. There is no doubt about that in Queensland. Aborigines at Aurukun and Mornington Island have been denied self-determination. 
The Bill before the Senate has a number of weaknesses. One is entitled to draw the conclusion, although I hesitate to do so, that the Bill has three principal purposes: To give the Government more control over land councils in the Northern Territory, both organisationally and financially; to make the actions of the councils accountable to the Government; and to take away more of the independence of the councils, especially the Northern Land Council. The legislation seeks to remove some of the independence of the Northern Land Council and to vest even more power in the hands of the Minister. The Opposition finds it particularly obnoxious that the amendments give the Commonwealth power to intervene and interfere- some might even say fiddle the books- so far as the Aboriginal benefits trust account is concerned. Those funds have been established for the benefit of the Aboriginal people and should be spent or distributed in consultation with them. 
Clause 3 of the Bill allows the Minister to grant parts of a claim rather than having to grant the whole of the claim, as is the legal requirement at present. That means that the legislation has been weakened because, whereas hitherto the Council had more power, there has now been a variant imposed which gives greater power to the Minister and less power to the Council. It gives the Minister extra leeway in blocking the transfer of tribal lands to Aborigines. In some ways this can be described as a pleasantry, as the Minister already can manipulate the recommendations of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner. As the Opposition understands it, he has that power under the existing legislation. Therefore, one doubts the reasons for these changes which are being contemplated. Clause 6 provides for an annual report to the Minister by the Council. The Opposition suggests- I would have thought that the Parliament had determined this-that the Council is responsible to the Aborigines, not to the Minister or to the Government; it is responsible for protecting the interests of the Aborigines themselves. The legislation also provides for the appointment of someone to do this, at the Council's cost. Previously, that person would have been appointed by the Commonwealth. 
Clause 8 shows how the Government has retreated on the important issue of the independence of the Northern Land Council. Some of my colleagues would certainly express the view that it is a retreat because of the obstinancy of, and the difficulties placed in the way of the Government by, those whom the Government has to consult in the legislative processes. Of course, I refer to the Northern Territory Government. Clause 8 provides for the granting of Commonwealth money to non-Aborigines appearing before the Council- that is, the land owners who took the land in the first place and the mining companies which now want uninterrupted access if they feel there are assets there that ought to be exploited and if, in the considered opinion of the government of the day, it is considered to be in the national interest. The Opposition is concerned that the interpretation of national interest could well have an objective which would place the Aborigines in a somewhat different, discriminatory and disadvantaged position. 
Finally, the Bill provides for the Minister to have control over the finances of the Land Council. If that is the case- that is the way the Opposition reads the legislation- it seems to be in line with the Government's aim to prevent any possible impediment to the views that have been expressed openly in a publication by the Australian Mining Industry Council and in other magazines, which seems to indicate that they have set about to weaken the legislation and to vest more power in a development-minded Government to deprive Aborigines of the rights that were originally contemplated in the legislation. The Opposition expects that the Minister will give some reasons why he believes that there has to be a public inquiry- I suppose that is what one would say about the appointment of  Mr Rowland-  into the difficulties in connection with the conversion of land leases on land held by Aborigines. The Opposition would like some assurance from the Minister that when these sorts of conflicts of interest manifest themselves, the Government will back an objective look at the matter and recognise our commitment to Aborigines, not our commitment to multinational mining companies, many of which are foreign owned and have shown in a historical sense all over the world that they are interested in development for their short term purposes and that they have not really appreciated the damage that they have done to the environment in various countries. 
Naturally, the Opposition is concerned that the mentality or philosophy that seems to be characteristic of mining companies is seen in a proper perspective, having regard to our fundamental commitment and obligation to protect the rights of Aborigines. In this case, the Parliament has a particular role to play. We are not saying that there is not some justice in some circumstances in relation to mining development. The Opposition fears that the pressure that builds up on governments, Ministers and political parties in respect of development is often such that it has greater effect and greater influence than the views of those who are less articulate, less organised or less powerful in the protecting of their interests. Nobody in the Senate or in the Parliament would deny, I am sure, that here we have a major area of public conflict between the landowners and those who want to develop the land for various reasons,  including  the exploitation of natural resources in a particular region. 
We would hope that the Government might take our proposed amendment on board because all we seek to do is to add words to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. Our original amendment sought to have the Bill withdrawn and redrafted with a view to looking at the problem in the Australian Capital Territory. If the Minister has had a chance to examine what the amendment now seeks to do he will see that it seeks to extend the legislation to include Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory. Some of my colleagues who will follow me in this debate will deal in more detail with certain claims in respect of Aboriginal land in the southern part of the Australian Capital Territory. It has been represented to us that they are legitimate claims, and we have no reason to disregard that representation. One would think, therefore, that rather than leave the matter in the hands of the Minister for the Capital Territory, it ought to come within the province of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs so that he can take on board the proposition that at some future stage the Government should introduce legislation which would extend at least the Northern Territory Aboriginal land rights legislation, with all its weaknesses that I have referred to, to Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I indicate to the Minister that at the Committee stage we will move at least one other amendment which will seek to give the Parliament rather than the Minister some of the powers that are proposed in the legislation. I know that we are not often able to get much agreement on these matters in the Parliament. Nevertheless, one can hope that the views we have expressed with respect to the Australian Capital Territory will receive the consideration of the Minister. I move: 
At end of motion add but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should as soon as possible extend by legislation the rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory to Aborigines in the Australian Capital Territory '. 
The Opposition desires to remove the word 'Minister' from lines 22 and 24 and insert therein the word 'Parliament'. I move: 
Page 2, clause 6, lines 22 and 24, leave out 'Minister' (wherever occurring), insert 'Parliament '. 
The reason we do this is borne out, I think, by the explanation which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  gave in the second reading debate. He indicated that there is a lot of information which is not available to us in the normal course of events on which to make judgments about the way in which the land rights legislation is being applied. I think it is fair to say that there is a breakdown in communication, a breakdown in providing information, which probably would be overcome to a great extent if the Parliament were advised more readily and more often about developments in this area. I think it has to be recognised that the land rights legislation is a new concept. It is a principle about which we know there has been considerable pressure and considerable disputation, as the Minister rightly referred to, between the original land owners- here I am referring to the Aborigines- and those who claimed to be the original land owners- and here I am referring to the whites- because of the way in which the early land titles were dealt with. 
If we want to have a reasonable and logical debate, a debate that is related as far as is practical to the factual situation in respect of land rights, it seems reasonable that the information ought to be furnished to the Parliament rather than to the Minister, because whilst some of us certainly would take a broad view with respect to the current Minister, I would not apply the same yardstick to his predecessor, who I felt did not have the breadth of vision or approach to the matter to satisfy the Opposition. 
I have dealt with the matter in respect of the particularity of this amendment. If we look at it in the sense of the general way in which the Parliament ought to operate as distinct from the manner in which the Minister or the Government operates from time to time, I think there is a powerful case to suggest that we ought to be taking steps to extend more and more the role of the Parliament rather than the role of the Executive. Articles have been written and speeches have been made in this place, particularly by members of the Government, about the subordination of the Parliament to Executive whim. They are questions which I would remind honourable senators and the Government have been expressed from time to time by many members of the Opposition. In particular, I recall in my apprenticeship days in this place the attempts that were made by my then Leader,  Senator. Murphy,  in relation to the need to establish the supremacy of the Parliament as distinct from the supremacy of the Executive. I recall  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack making comments about this prior to his retirement from Parliament, and indeed the Minister himself has made comments on it. So I think there is a very good case not only in respect of this particular piece of legislation but also as part of the general principle of trying to establish in a more principled way the role of the Parliament so that the sort of information which we will be talking about in another piece of legislation- the Freedom of Information Bill- can be made available. I cannot see why the report should be made available to the Minister but not made available to the Parliament. It should not be left to the Minister to decide whether the Parliament should be informed. I think it is logical and reasonable that proposed new section 37A(1) should read: 
A Land Council shall, as soon as practical after the end of each financial year, prepare and furnish to the Parliament a report of the operations of the Council during that year, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Parliament approves . . . 
I know from the way in which Parliament operates that it follows that it is the Minister virtually who can determine the fate of some proposal or otherwise determine what happens. But then there are occasions, all too infrequent, where the Parliament, sometimes- the Senate this casemay exercise some influence. Perhaps after the next election the Senate might be more evenly balanced, and that would give the Parliament a slightly better opportunity to play a sort of review role. I do not think it is a matter that really restricts substantially the rights of the Minister, but it certainly does enhance the role of the Parliament. I think in those circumstances it is reasonable for us to argue that the deletion of the word 'Minister' and the substitution of the word Parliament 'ought to be accepted by the Senate. 
 I appreciate the view that has been expressed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  but I would like to refer to  Senator Mason's  contribution. If the land council is required, as it is in the existing legislation, to have a report prepared for the Minister, it seems a machinery matter to have the same report made available to the Parliament. After all, the process has already been involved. Whilst I can agree with  Senator Mason  that the problem facing all members of parliament is how to handle the tremendous volume of reports, let him be assured that in the event of an election producing a Labor government it would certainly be very interested in improving the resources of members of parliament so that they can more readily carry out their role of appreciating these sorts of reports. It is a matter of great concern to me that this week something in excess of 60 reports have been placed on my desk. I will have no chance of even looking at the titles, let alone carrying out any examination of the material in them. 
If we have statutory bodies, government departments and other agencies presenting reports to the Parliament, we ought to have the resources to make sure that something happens to them apart from public servants exercising the role of deciding what ought to flow from them. That is the process that is unsatisfactory from the point of view of the member of parliament. In fact, it is left substantially to our friends in the Press Gallery to spend an hour or two scanning through reports, picking out an item and, in fact, often publishing their comments upon the reports before we even have a chance to receive them, least of all to read them. Whilst there is some validity in the point that has been raised by  Senator Mason,  I think it is partly a dereliction of responsibility on our part because the Government has not agreed as yet to make the resources we need available to us. I think that we are rapidly reaching the stage where each member of the Parliament needs a reader on his personal staff to do the job of drawing attention to the matters that ought to be examined with a view to making some public comment or some comment in the Parliament itself. 
I cannot necessarily speak conclusively on behalf of my Party about the Minister's agreement to consider this matter. In view of the fact that the Minister has come some way along the road to meeting the requirements in the amendment, I propose to ask him whether he might not be prepared to reconsider and adopt the proposition with respect to furnishing the Parliament with the report and not be so much concerned about the financial side of it. If that is a matter that concerns the Government, he has the opportunity to refer that to the Parliament, should he so choose. It is important for us, as members of the Parliament, to have a report on what the land council is doing and what difficulty it has rather than be faced with the prospect that the Minister has to appoint an outsider to report on all of the deficiencies or difficulties that the land council had and then come back to us. It seems to me that it is part of our responsibility to be better informed. The opportunity of having a report from the land council is not asking too much of the Minister. I do not want to press the point, but I think that that might overcome some of the objections that he has raised. If he is not prepared to do that, I suppose the Opposition is grateful for the fact that the matter will be reconsidered and will be brought back in the autumn session. 
Referring to clause 8(2)(b), it seems that a case has been made out ibr certain guidelines being established which would be related to some sort of a means test application. The Opposition has put forward legislation to provide legal aid. We do not disagree with the general principles, but we would want to see that that legal aid was granted to those who were in need of legal aid. I suppose everybody is in need of legal aid. I am talking of legal aid from the point of view of the person having the incapacity, because of financial restrictions, to have recourse to legal assistance. 
Yes. I would not object. The case  Senator Kilgariff  made today is that there would be people who, for a variety of reasons, believe they hold title to land and who might not be in a financial position to represent their point of view before the Land Council. I hope that in those circumstances the Aborigines would win out. Nevertheless, I concede that there could be a case to be adequately represented before the Council. It does seem to me that we ought to have regulations of some sort which say that, for example, Western Mining Corporation Ltd would not qualify for legal assistance but that persons A, B, and C, because of their financial positions, would be eligible. 
Apart from making that point, I suppose that all we can say is that perhaps regulations ought to be established which clearly define who would be able to make an application and that that sort of information ought to be freely available to the persons who might find that their rights in the matter are being neglected because of the inability to provide themselves with financial and legal assistance. 

Page5, clause5, after proposed section 12DC, insert the following new section:   12DCA.  The Tribunal may, if it thinks it desirable to do so, inquire into the level of post-graduate awards that should be used as a basis for recurrent expenditure on such awards under the Students Assistance Act 1973.' 
I have already canvassed the arguments in support of the amendment during the second reading debate. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It relates to medical research, which is an issue which she surely recognises is causing some concern and controversy. Given this Government's professed desire to hold down health costs to the community, why is it that only 35 per cent of new projects are to be funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council? This is down from 45 per cent last year and 55 per cent in 1 977. Why is it that funding of these projects is, on a per capita basis, half that in Canada and New Zealand? Is the Minister aware that every dollar spent on biomedical science represents an eventual saving of $100 from the national health bill? 
I foreshadow that at the Committee stage the Opposition will be moving the following amendment: 
Page 5, clause 5, after proposed section 12DC, insert the following new section: " ' 12DCA. The Tribunal may, if it thinks it desirable to do so, inquire into the level of post-graduate awards that should be used as a basis for recurrent expenditure on such awards under the Students Assistance Act 1973.' ". 
Claims for increases in wages, salaries, benefits, awards and so on are matters which are constantly before the Parliament and on which the community at large expresses an opinion from time to time. Wage and salary increases are the subject of repeated claims before the Australian Industrial Court and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. When the Whitlam Government came to office it introduced the Remuneration Tribunals Act for the purpose of establishing a procedure by which an objective and regular examination would be made of parliamentary salaries, salaries of judges in the Federal jurisdiction and salaries of senior public servants. In the ensuing years the legislation has been amended to bring matters relating to salaries as they affect those involved in institutions associated with education and academic studies under the consideration of the Remuneration Tribunal. As this process has continued and the Remuneration Tribunal has assumed a more important function, an expanded function, it is argued that the Parliament should give the Tribunal the opportunity, should it so desire, of hearing submissions from post-graduate students and their associations and give them a chance to express a point of view, present a case and have their views adequately considered in a calm and objective way. That is the purpose of the proposed amendment on which the Opposition will seek to obtain the views of the Parliament. 
When one examines the matter of postgraduate awards one sees that a close relationship exists with the area of academia. That relationship ought to be recognised by the Tribunal. This is relevant because of the growing deterioration in the awards which are currently paid to post-graduate students. We are dealing with a particular group of people who, in the sense of their education and development, play a significant part in the leadership of our country in both the private and public sectors. It is incongruous for them to be in the position during the period of their advanced study of being placed at a serious financial disadvantage knowing that that is soon to be remedied when they move into the private or public sector. 
If there are grounds for the Remuneration Tribunal associating itself with and considering academic salaries, which is one of the additional responsibilities which the Tribunal has taken up, it seems logical, reasonable and equitable that it should consider this matter at the level immediately prior to persons reaching the position of becoming academics in the sense of seeking higher education. If one examines the current award rates being paid to post-graduate students, one can only say that they have fallen considerably behind those received by the rest of the Australian community, whereas the purpose of the Remuneration Tribunal was to keep those areas which I have mentioned in some relationship to the movements in the consumer price index. There has been a desire to maintain a form of indexation, a form of equity and a relativity that bear relationship to the current moves that take place in the consumer price index. I submit to the Government that, if we examine what has happened in terms of post-graduate awards, we see only a continuing decline in real value and a decline which for a number of reasons ought to be recognised and adjusted. 
The Tribunal ought to be given an opportunity calmly to assess the representations which postgraduate students have made to various members of Parliament. Both sides of the House have been requested to give consideration to this matter. It is in the light of those considerations that we believe that it is reasonable that we should propose an amendment to this legislation. Our Amendment does not establish unequivocally the right of the Tribunal, but it gives it the opportunity, given the case to be presented, for it to consider the views of post-graduate students. In that sense it also gives the Parliament a much better say in what should happen concerning post-graduate students. As we know, there are provisions in the original legislation establishing the Remuneration Tribunal which enable the Parliament to set aside a determination if it feels that there has been some inequity created or, in fact, if in the view of the Government or the majority in either House of the Parliament some part of the award of the Tribunal should be set aside. Perhaps we will debate that aspect later in the day. 
I am prompted to move this amendment because the 1 978 Budget, for the first time as far as post-graduate students were concerned, provided for taxing these payments. That move introduced a new factor. We are now concerned with not just a two-year period but really a threeyear period as no adjustments have been made to post-graduate awards since 1 977. In that year alone, in round figures, a change of approximately 20 per cent occurred in the inflation rate and, consequently, a reduction in the real value of the post-graduate awards. If we look at what has happened in recent years- I hope to relate very shortly what has really happened to movements in the consumer price index in Sydneythere has been a reduction of some 64 per cent. The problem with post-graduate students is that they have restricted access at the moment to areas to which they can present their point of view. If the amendment were accepted by the Parliament, post-graduate students would then be given access to the Tribunal and the Tribunal would be given an opportunity to consider whether it should hear a claim. So basically we are not moving anything that could be regarded as too revolutionary or too drastic. We seek only to provide the opportunity for the Tribunal to act on this matter. 
When the award for post-graduate students was originally determined it was based on a parity arrangement with another award consideration. That consideration was the payment made to the university departmental researcher whose salary has increased as a result of internal arrangements and decisions by the Tribunal to about $11,000. It is a considerable departure from the original salary that was paid. The award has not changed since 1977. 
I think we are entitled to say to the Government that there is genuine concern and general dissatisfaction amongst post-graduate students. Whilst it will be argued by the Government that these are matters which, at the moment, come within another jurisdiction- Government policy and decision making at the time of the Budget- we submit that a fairly strong and reasonable case has been put to the Government for some change. We are not talking about large sums of money; we are talking about principles. Just as the Government has slowly but surely moved to include institutions, more academics and more public servants into the jurisdiction of the Remuneration Tribunal, so we believe that there is a reasonable case to be presented that the Government ought to give the Tribunal an opportunity, should it so desire, to inquire into postgraduate awards and not leave them under the Student Assistance Act 1973. There was some justice when the Whitlam Government related the awards for post-graduate students to a researcher's salary at the university level. The fact that the salary has fallen behind to the degree that it has is a very substantial reason why some consideration ought to be given to the amendment which I propose to move. 
The consumer price index for the Sydney area- one has to relate it to a capital city- shows that in the quarter ending December 1976 the ratio was 222.8 per cent. By June 1979 it had moved to 274.3 per cent. Assuming that the inflation rate is 9 per cent which is provided for in the Budget- I think that it will probably exceed that but I will stick rigidly to the Budget projections- it is anticipated that by December 1 979 it will have moved to 3 1 2. 1 per cent. That is the movement that has taken place in the CPI. In 1976 the value of the award was $3,250. In January 1977 the award moved to $4,000 per annum. In January 1978 it was $4,200. In that year there was a Budget decision to apply a tax component from 1 November. To maintain at December 1979 the value of the award of $4,000 tax-free at January 1977, the award would need to be $5,600. For a post-graduate student to receive $5,600 after tax in December 1980 prices the award would need to be $6,410. 1 will use the 32 per cent flat tax rate that will apply in December 1980 after the lifting of the surcharge- I assume that it will not be reapplied- and the $3,893 tax threshold. Taxable income should be the taxed income plus the taxable income threshold multiplied by the tax rate. At the moment, the award is $4,200. The tax on this is $98, at the 32 per cent rate. Therefore, the money value at December 1 980 will be $4, 102. In fact, in January 1977 terms the award is worth only 64 per cent in terms of real buying power after paying tax. 
If we were to have an equitable system which applied to all of the other areas to which I have referred- the Tribunal has approved it and the Parliament has subsequently approved it in respect of judges, public servants and parliamentarians- and if there were to be the same buying power in September 1 980 as there was in January 1977, with the payment of tax the award would need to be $6,410 a year. That is the assertion that the Opposition makes; that is the view that it believes has some credence. But the Opposition is prepared to say that that award needs to be examined and substantiated before some body. I think it is better that that examination be carried out by the Remuneration Tribunal than that it be applied in respect of consideration of the Budget documents which come out once every year. The Government has been forced to revert to twice-yearly adjustments of social security payments for pensioners. It has not objected to the annual consideration of the salaries of parliamentary officers, academics and judges. 
I think it is logical and reasonable to say that there is one section that has been left aside in this whole area, and that is post-graduate studentspeople who should not be called upon to make financial sacrifices different from those of the rest of the community; a group of people who, having attained a certain level of education and having a tremendous contribution to make to the development of our country in both the public and private sectors, ought to be recognised and therefore ought to have access to some public consideration, to some public tribunal. The Opposition believes that the Remuneration Tribunal cannot be said to be overworked. It does a very fine job in overall objectivity in the areas in which it has jurisdiction. It seems logical and proper that the Opposition should ask the Government and the Senate to look at the amendment, and ask the Senate to endorse the proposal that the Tribunal may, if it thinks it desirable to do so, inquire into the level of postgraduate awards that should be used as a basis for recurrent expenditure on such awards existing under the Student Assistance Act 1 973. 
A superficial examination of the Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1 979 may convey to honourable senators that it is not a very important Bill or that it is of secondary importance insofar as it disallows certain awards given to members of Parliament and changes their salaries and allowances. However, I think that it gives the Senate an opportunity to look at the annual charade that takes place every time the Remuneration Tribunal, having examined evidence from members of Parliament and made a determination in accordance with the wishes of the Parliament, makes changes to salaries, conditions and allowances and then sees a challenge to the determination handed down by the Executive government. This means that despite evidence placed before the Tribunal by various members of Parliament in respect of their salaries, allowances and awards, the Executive government decides to set the Tribunal's decision aside. 
In some quarters this might be construed as a popular decision, but I suggest that the Government, in setting aside the umpire's decision, is negating its approach to determinations handed down by the appropriate tribunals in respect of wages, salaries and conditions. The Remuneration Tribunal is charged with the annual responsibility of examining salaries, conditions and other factors relating to the operation of the Parliament and occasionally those relating to judges and other persons. That is what this legislation is about. Members of Parliament experience the problems of inadequate resources to carry out their parliamentary functions. When one looks at what is done in this area one sees a degree of bipartisanship. There seems to be a recognition, by members of all parties, of the need for members of Parliament to have adequate resources. 
I recall that on the few occasions I have spoken on this matter I have had a commonality of attitude from Senators Withers, Chaney, Missen, Baume and others- but particularly those honourable senators- when the opportunity has presented itself. They have expressed their concern about the inadequacy of resources for members to carry out their public functions. It is not just a question of whether the salaries are adequate, because that is not an area on which I have a great deal to say. What I want to speak about is the inadequacy of resources. I would expect that former members of the Government who were members of the Cabinet, would agree with me that the resources available to that side of the Parliament which is in government are almost unlimited. Those members have not only personal resources of greater magnitude than the Opposition and other smaller parties, but also they have resources at the departmental level. This means that it is not the lack of human resources that fails to provide them with infor.matién, research, the answers or the investigations necessary to properly fulfil their role as members of Parliament. 
It disturbs me that, each time we feel there is a case for better facilities to be made available for members of the Parliament, particularly for research so that we can play a more meaningful role in the Parliament and in promoting public debate on the various issues which ought to be publicly debated, one can only say that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  issues the edicts- as he has from time to time- and when he adopts a somewhat arrogant position when the Leader of my Party goes to him in relation to maintaining the determinations that have been awarded by the Tribunal- he is being mean and miserable in respect to his responsibility to provide more equity and resources for members of the national Parliament. It is not hard to understand that he would adopt such an attitude. We are really not talking about great sums of money. We are not talking about huge costs. We are talking about the ability of the Parliament to play a more informed and purposeful role, not only in respect of what the Parliament does but also in respect of creating a better understanding in the Australian community. 
It might be recalled that the last time there were any substantial changes and improvements in this situation was in the period of the Whitlam Government. Honourable senators will be aware that the then Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr Daly,  doubled the amount of resources available to ordinary members of the Parliament. Rather than just having a person in the office backing a constituency we were given the capacity to employ an extra person more substantially on the research side of the Parliament. Some members with difficult electoral commitments have applied those resources to a purely administrative area. Nevertheless, there was a 100 per cent improvement in the amount of human resources available. Subsequently, representations were made to the Tribunal to increase that resource. It is on the record that the members of the Remuneration Tribunal have agreed that there is a case for members of Parliament to have a third person employed but because of the constraints that naturally exist in this place it is not physically possible to provide members of Parliament with additional staff to operate from within Parliament itself. So whilst admitting the case, the Tribunal has not been prepared- knowing the problems that you,  Mr President,  know in relation to accommodation in the Parliament- to take that next step. Obviously, if approximately 100 members of the Parliament were to be given additional staff, that would impose tremendous accommodation difficulties in Parliament House. Nevertheless, that requirement ought to be met. I am sure that dramatic changes could be made to the accommodation in Parliament House to provide those resources, even if it were done on a piecemeal basis. 
When we look at resources as a component part of the Parliament it has to be admitted that there is no such thing as equity. The government of the day has virtually all the resources. The Opposition is limited to a very small amount of additional assistance. The four leaders of the parliamentary Opposition have a few extra staff. More recently, there has been some improvement in the staffing arrangements for shadow Ministers. As a result of representations that members of my party made to the Tribunal, the Tribunal said that it was prepared to determine that each shadow Minister should have an additional member of staff for the purpose of carrying out his responsibilities in the Parliament and outside it. The Prime Minister, in his usual style, refused to allow that decision to stand. He cut back the number of additional staff to 10. That meant that some members of the shadow ministry were forced to share an additional member of staff, even though that person might have certain expertise in one area and might not necessarily be able to fulfil a proper function in respect of other areas. To share a person when dealing with different points of emphasis and philosophical standards is impossible. That son of arrangement is not satisfactory. We were arguing about six more staff members being employed for the shadow ministry. We were not concerned about getting additional staff for the four leaders of the parliamentary Opposition. We were concerned about having one additional member for the 16 members of the shadow ministry. 
They have 10 staff members between 16 of them. I do not think that it is an unfair characterisation to say that the Prime Minister is acting outrageously about this matter. He is acting in a way which is very restrictive and discriminatory against the Opposition's having better resources to carry out its functions properly. It ought to be stressed that, politics being as they are, parties are one day in government and the next day in opposition. The Government may, as it did in respect of the Tribunal 's recommendations last year and this year, cut back on the resources available to shadow Ministers, but I remind it that in a year's time it may well find itself in opposition and, therefore, in exactly the same position as the Opposition finds itself in today. It would be regressive and it would not solve any of the fundamental problems if a new government were to take the shortsighted view that this Government is taking with regard to resources. In relation to this legislation that we are being asked to approve, the Tribunal has submissions from numerous shadow Ministers who were seeking unlimited travel allowance. Of course, the fact is that shadow Ministers have additional responsibilities to those of ordinary members of the Parliament insofar as they are required to travel interstate and to attend a whole range of seminars, party discussions and public activities in addition to their normal parliamentary duties. The Government, acting at the behest of the Prime Minister, has reduced the unlimited travelling allowance which had normally been available and which had been recommended by the Tribunal this year, to 40 overnight stays per annum. No reason was given for this in the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney);  it was just stated that the decision had been taken. 
It is probably true that some members of the shadow ministry would not take up their entitlements to travelling allowances for 40 overnight stays because of the areas of responsibility that they have; but other members would be required to make up to 100 overnight stays, and would have many more commitments in respect to their particular shadow portfolios. For example, because of the prevailing economic conditions and the interest of the Australian community in economic matters, for example, one would imagine that every week  Mr Willis  and  Mr Hurford  would have many commitments, some of which would take them outside their own State. Restriction will be placed upon them in meeting their requirements to address seminars and mix with captains of industry and commerce, who have no restrictions at all placed upon their capacity to pay for stays in the best hotels and entertain at the highest levels. The mistaken view has been taken that if those in the public sector exercise what I believe to be their rights and obligations it is a cost to the community. Of course, the suggestion is that in the private sector the cost is borne by some nebulus mythical organisation other than the Australian community. 
We all know that there are no taxation restrictions upon the capacity of industry to spend generous amounts on expenses. If companies want to conduct seminars and it costs $70 to accommodate a guest  speaker,  in the best hotel and so forth, that is a charge which is accepted by the private sector company or group that is organising the function. It seems incongruous that the private sector can do this and the public sector cannot. Yet the Government has cut back the emolument that was granted to members of parliament on an unlimited basis and has restricted it to 40 overnight stays, even though members' staff, because of their classification, have unlimited travel rights. What is this Government really about? What is the Prime Minister about when he imposes that sort of restriction? 
I suggest what is reasonable is what is reasonable for all other public servants- unlimited. 
He just hates the Opposition; he hates the Labor Party and does not want to give its members access to any resources at all. That was indicated in the discussions that  Mr Hayden  had with the Prime Minister about these matters. He would not give an answer; he would not give the Opposition any reason. He was not prepared to discuss it or debate it with any sense of reasonableness. The number 40 was part of the determination the previous year, but he did not set it aside then. At that time, in 1978, the Prime Minister set aside the staff arrangements which had been recommended by the Tribunal. Honourable senators will agree with me that nobody abuses the travel allocation. Nobody goes away from home just for the sheer sake of it. Members do not go unless they have a commitment. There is no suggestion that members of Parliament, particularly members of the front bench of the Opposition or even, I would concede, members of the Government front bench, would go away just for the sake of doing so. Members of Parliament travel because of the demands made upon them. I think that is borne out by the fact that nobody abuses the travel allocation. In fact, there ought not to be restrictions on the resources available to members of Parliament. There ought to be recognition of the rights of members to carry out their responsibilities and to be adequately compensated in the same way as those who work in the private sector are compensated. 
There ought not to be this annual event of the Government or the Prime Minister rejecting the umpire's decision. What is the purpose of presenting arguments before the Tribunal if its decisions are rejected? Its members are men who are regarded as reasonable and competent in their area. The Tribunal asks questions and examines all the evidence. It does not make an award or a determination unless it is borne out by the facts. It seems to me that unless recommendations and determinations are not reasonable the government of the day ought to accept them. We have quite a degree of criticism to make for the second year about the distribution of resources as distinct from the fixing of salaries. As you will probably appreciate,  Mr President,  there is discrimination in respect of salaries and allowances for officers of the Parliament, particularly as they relate to the Senate. There is no doubt that you,  Mr President,  have been discriminated against as a result of the decision of the Executive of the day. 
Of course, another area of discrimination in this legislation concerns the role of the Whips of the Senate. This discrimination is unforgivable. After all, the Senate was responsible for the Prime Minister being able to make his grab for power in 1975 following the dissolution in 1974 and prior to the dissolution in 1975. Is it suggested that the Whips in the House of Representatives play a greater or more effective role? I imagine that this Government would be the first to say that the Whips here play a more effective role, because unless the job here is done the Government is in great difficulties, as was borne out by the events in 1975 when obviously the then Opposition Whip was a fairly effective sort of person. 
Leaving aside the controversy and what has been said by even Government members in recent times about the alienation that has taken place as a result of the events of 1975, 1 just do not believe that the salaries and allowances of officers in this place, whether they be the  President  or the Whips, should be in any way different from those for the House of Representatives. As has been indicated, we find discrimination in respect of the Senate Whips travelling to Canberra during non-sitting periods to carry out some of their responsibilities. That situation is provided for in respect of the House of Representatives but is not provided for in respect of the Senate. How one can gauge that as equitable is beyond my comprehension. It seems a totally illogical step. Therefore, I believe I am entitled to move the amendment which I propose to move at the Committee stage and which would give to the Senate Whips, and to any honourable senator acting in that capacity, the same sort of emoluments as exist for the Whips in the House of Representatives. Here again I think it is fair to say that I am sure that neither  Senator Baume  nor  Senator Georges  will travel to Canberra during a period when the Parliament is not sitting just for the sake of receiving travelling allowances. It is absurd to suggest that that situation would be abused because I know that they are both family men who want to spend as much time as conceivable with their wives and families in their own homes. 
We are not talking about large sums of money but we are talking about important principles. Although we are not moving an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, we certainly foreshadow amendments which propose to insert new sections to establish without any equivocation the right of the Senate to be treated equally with the House of Representatives. I hope that that is a principle which will enjoy the support of the Senate. For those reasons we ask the Government parties, whilst they may not agree with all that I have said about the question of resources for members of parliament, to consider seriously the points I have raised and to have them discussed in their party room and by their party committees which deal with such rights so that we can come to an understanding about the need for adequate resources to be available to members of parliament. I know that members of Government committees to whom I have spoken from time to time share that view. Just as they have problems of resolving the matter with their Government, I had the same sort of problems when I was  chairman  of my party's committee because  Mr Daly  said: Those so-and-sos did not give it to us. Why should we give it to them?' I do not support that principle. 
I think the principle is whether we should have resources and, if the answer is yes, it does not matter who they apply to on the basis that one day the opposition is in government and the next day the government is in opposition. I am concerned with establishing the principles. My role, if I became a Minister in a future Labor government, would be to persuade my colleagues to adopt the principles that I am enunciating. My job would be made so much easier if the government of the day, particularly its back bench, were able to show, when it had the opportunity to do so, that it gave me some moral support for the views I have presented to the Parliament today. I give notice that at the Committee stage I will be moving to insert, after clause 5, a proposed new section dealing with the matters which stand in my name but which I shall be moving on behalf of  Senator Georges,  who would have moved them himself had he been here. I am fulfilling only that part of an obligation which he felt very strongly about and which was part of a submission he made to the Tribunal. 
I refer the Committee to a comparison of the salary of $10,500 proposed for the  President  of the Senate in 1976 and the amount of $ 1 2,8 16 recommended on this occasion, which has been reduced to $1 1,269. This represents an increase of $769 over a three-year period. The proposed allowance represents an increase of $903. One might say that these increases, if stood alone, are adequate, but the salary for junior Ministers is recommended to increase by $952 after the same period. This means, of course, that we are talking in round figures of a difference of about $ 1 80 between the 1976 salaries and the proposals that are recommended in this clause of the Bill. 
I take up the point of  Senator Chaney  about the need to exercise restraint. We do not quarrel with the exercise of restraint. However, one section of the Australian community that is not exercising restraint is the business sector. No restraint is being exercised in that sector in regard to salaries or allowances. If the Minister is really suggesting that that is the case, I ask him to give me some figures showing that directors' fees have remained within the area of the comparable increase to which I have referred. He will find that in fact directors' fees have increased very considerably over the three-year period. He will find that no restrictions have been placed on allowances paid by the private sector to those people who occupy a management position. When we are talking about restraint, let it be right across the board. At present it is not right across the board. The Government talks about restraint only as it relates to members of Parliament, or lower income wage and salary earners. 
Every time this Government goes before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission we are told that its policy is to exercise wage restraint. When it comes to the Parliament, we are told that we must exercise salary and resource restraint. But there is never any evidence that that course is being followed by those who occupy a very important place in our society, where they are able to make decisions without any public accountability except to the shareholders of a particular company. Because of the way in which many of these companies operate, shareholders can exercise very little restraint upon those who make management decisions about their own emoluments and salaries, about the way in which shares are issued, about increases in share returns on capital funds invested. This is just another of the specious arguments that we get in this Parliament from time to time. As these figures show, the Government increases the salaries of its junior Ministers and decreases the salaries of Presiding Officers in an unfair manner. 
I now refer to the rate the Tribunal offered to the  President  of the Senate in 1978. lt offered an amount of $12,323, the same rate as that for Cabinet Ministers. The rate of $12,816 offered to senior Cabinet Ministers is the same as that being awarded under this legislation to the Presiding Officers. But the amount recommended by the Tribunal has been reduced by $1,550. Again I emphasise, as have all members of the Parliament who have debated this question, that there is a great deal of inconsistency in respect of the specific matters that have been raised. On the questions of restraint, there certainly is a great deal of challenge and contradiction about what really happens in the private sector. 
I move: 
Page 3, after clause 5, insert the following new clause: 5a. ( 1 ) Determination No. 9 of 1979 of the Tribunal dated June 1979 relating to allowances to be paid out of the public moneys of Australia to Ministers of State and to members of the Parliament by reason of their membership of the Parliament or by reason of their holding particular offices, or performing particular functions in, or in relation to the Parliament or either House of Parliament is modified with effect from the commencement of this section by omitting paragraph 14 and substituting the following paragraph: 
Whips 
The Government Whip, the Opposition Whip and the Third Party Whip in the House of Representatives, the Government Whip, Opposition Whip and the Third Party Whip in the Senate when travelling to Canberra on duties or functions connected with their offices, other than when the Parliament is sitting, shall be entitled to be paid travelling allowance in respect of each overnight stay in Canberra occasioned by such duties or functions. 
Determination No. 9 of 1979 of the Remuneration Tribunal as modified by sub-section (1 ) has effect as if it were a determination of the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I think we canvassed the arguments on this matter during the second reading debate. I know it will be said that probably this matter will be rectified in the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal in 1980 when it considers the submission that has been made by the two Whips. The original submission was made by  Senator Georges  and subsequently- by a letter substantially agreeing with  Senator George's  submission- by  Senator Peter  Baume, the 
Government Whip. If there is any credence in the submission that has been made about the inability of the Tribunal to properly understand its function here, then I think it is proper that the Senate, in Committee of the Whole, should accept the amendment that I am proposing. I understand it was as a result of submissions made by the Opposition and Government Whips in the House of Representatives that that decision was shown on page 61 of the Remuneration Tribunal's report. Both Whips made a submission which was incorporated as a determination by the Tribunal. It is probably fair to say that the Tribunal did not take into consideration the fact that that decision should also have been applied to the Senate. I make no criticism of the Tribunal. It received a submission from one section of the Parliament and it can put that submission into effect. 
I think the Tribunal erred in not saying: 'If it is good for one, it is good for the other'. But surely if Parliament has any relevance at all, if the criticisms that are being made outside this Parliament by  Mr Killen  and  Mr Hawke  about the relevant roles of Parliament are true, and also when it has been fairly conceded that that decision will probably be put into effect at the time that the Tribunal meets again next year, then the Government can now vary the determinations by accepting the amendment. If that is the case- I believe it is- if Parliament has any real, meaningful role, and if it can make certain decisions without bringing down the Government, then surely it is not seeking too much to ask the representative of the Executive who is here- the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator 
Chaney)- to accept the amendment that is being suggested. As I understand it. there is unanimity about the proposition embraced in the amendment which 1 have moved on behalf of  Senator Georges.  I do not think I am stretching credibility by saying that I understand that it enjoys the support of the Government Whip. I ask the Minister: Are we in such a position that if the Government were to accept the amendment all hell would break loose? ls there no way in which the Government can concede the matter or would such a concession be regarded as a slap in the face of the Executive of the day? If it is competent for the Parliament to set aside the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunalthat is what we are being asked to do in dealing with this legislation- it is competent for it to amend or add to them. 
I am concerned at the comments that  Mr Killen  has made in recent times about his great concern for the way in which Parliament is regarded following the tragic events of 1975. I am concerned also about the statements made by another person who aims to be a member of Parliament in a year or so, and about what I believe to be the irrationality of some of the proposals that he is putting forward. I do not think he understands the system that is operating. To the extent that the Parliament does not occasionally have the opportunity to put forward a viewpoint which is reasonable and rational, the sorts of criticisms that are being made outside the Parliamentary system- by  Mr Killen  and  Mr Hawkecertainly  fall on fertile soil. I know that it has probably already been determined that the Government will not accept the amendment. All I can say is that that is part of the reason for the distress that exists in the community about the irrelevancy of- the Parliament. No matter how logica! argument is and how reasonable amendments may be, nobody has the power, without consulting someone higher, in some sort of a fuhrer concept, to adopt a reasonable approach to a reasonable proposition. 
Whilst not opposing the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1979, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I move: 
At end of morion add, ' but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted so as to exclude application of any increases in air navigation charges to general aviation pending receipt and consideration of the recommendations of the current inquiry into general aviation '. 
We believe hopefully that the current general aviation study will move some way towards correcting some of the imbalances across the whole spectrum of aviation in this country. I know that with the serious consideration of the user-pay principle by the Parliament in recent years there has been a growing belief that public enterprises should stand on their own two feet in their general administration. Of course, there is an acceptance of that view as well as a challenge to that viewpoint. Taxation in this country has now developed a class characteristic. As the Budget shows, nearly 50 per cent of general Federal revenue comes from pay-as-you-earn taxation, the great bulk of which is paid by the lower and middle income earners. The principle of user-pay ought to be considered in the light of that and the fact that before the 1970s there was heavy subsidisation of most of the aviation industry in this country. That is just one observation I make about the general problem that we are concerned with. 
The present inquiry into general aviation, I understand, is designed to look at the overall position of aviation charges. Since this Government came into office the use of air transport in this country has increased dramatically. There is no doubt that there is a case to be made out for increased air navigation charges. Nevertheless, an inquiry is presently being conducted into general aviation and we submit that it is premature to raise charges before that inquiry is completed. The object of this legislation is to increase air navigation charges by some 25 per cent and to make other changes concerning these charges. The present inquiry is investigating these very subjects of economics, operations, framework and structure. We wonder why it is that the Government is acting peremptorily upon the legislation without allowing the inquiry to complete its work. It seems to me to be a typical example of the Government putting the cart before the horse. 
In the five years between 1972-73 and 1 977-78 there were large fluctuations in the ratio of costs of services provided by the Government to aviation compared to revenue raised in the same period. If I may be forgiven for dealing with some figures, the costs of services have increased in real terms by 6.3 per cent. The actual figures are $1 16m in 1972-73 and $229m in 1977-78. When one takes into account those sorts of costs and the costs of petroleum products it is no wonder that aviation charges have doubled in recent years. Federal Government returns have risen by 30 per cent in real termsfrom $57.6m in 1972-73 to $139.7m in 1977-78. Obviously on those figures the Labor Party does not deny that some increase in charges is necessary. Of course, even though I query what is being done and has been done all I am suggesting is that before one takes the definite step of increasing the rate of charges to the extent that this Bill would, one ought to have another look at the policy, not necessarily for the purpose of changing it but- I think it is worth it- for a reevaluation of it in the light of the experience of what is really happening. 
It is the priorities of this Government which we question. For example, who will bear the brunt of these proposed increases? Will it be those who can afford to pay, such as Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, or those who can least afford to pay, such as small commuter services, crop dusters, pleasure seeking operators and the like, many of whom cannot absorb a 20 per cent increase in the air navigation charges without some adverse effect on the standard of living of those involved both within and out of that industry? As I hope to show, some increases are justified and some sections of the industry can absorb the increases. It is all right for the Government to say that the Aviation Industry Advisory Council is reviewing the criteria for allocation of costs and services. No matter how well intentioned and progressive the findings of that body may be, they are still no guarantee that the Government will treat the smaller concerns equitably. I do suggest that there is a case for some equity between the large airlines which are the profitable sections of the industry and the smaller lines which are the less profitable sections of the industry. We have seen some evidence of the smaller lines finding it difficult to carry out their responsibilities particularly to non-metropolitan areas of our country. 
The very act of presenting this Bill at this time, well before the inquiry is complete, confirms the view that the Government is somewhat insensitive and that its insensitive ideology will prevail no matter what recommendations are made to it by that inquiry. We believe that the inquiry has a role to play and charges ought to be the consideration of that inquiry before we start to put them up. We know that this Government is interested in raking in every sheckle upon which it can get its hands. In Australia Ansett Transport Industries had a consolidated net profit of $ 19m in 1977-78. The company's airline operations contributed something like 65.3 per cent of its total revenue for that year. It is obvious that Ansett as an example is quite able to contribute enough as a domestic airline to alleviate the burdens that the Government intends to place on commuter and other general aviation sectors of the industry should this Bill be passed by the Senate in its present form. 
The fact that Ansett and TAA agreed to waive the 10 per cent increase limit on the ANC to accept a 25 per cent increase is hardly indicative of their generosity. Rather it indicates a typical conservative lack of farsightedness when the 10 per cent limit in clause 8 of the airlines agreement was set by the Menzies Government in 1961, which, of course, is almost two decades ago. Meanwhile, back in 1979, we can expect to see a nice little windfall for the airlines when they use these government rises- we are only questioning the degree of them at this stage- as an excuse to increase charges to their customers by a lot more than is justified by this levy. The temptation to say that the Government has done a deal with the airlines is strong. That might be  contested by Government senators, but so little information is available to us as members of the Parliament that one is entitled to make that assertion. I believe that these two large airline companies can absorb these charges without putting up their prices to consumers. We must surely be getting to the stage where the cost of air travel in this country is becoming prohibitive. It is becoming an important part of the whole cost structure. 
The Government, through the Minister, has made various statements at various times as to whether these types of price rises should be passed on. The tenor of these statements over the years has depended on whether the coalition parties have been in government or in opposition. Honourable senators have only to look at the record to see whether or not that is borne out in fact. The latest comment by the Minister, which I presume, is binding, was on 22 August in answer to a question without notice. The Minister suggested that any price inceases due to the passing of this Bill will be insignificant. For example, he said that on the Sydney to Perth route the increase in air navigation charges for a one-way economy fare would be only $2.42, that on the Melbourne to Hobart route it would be 60c and that on the Canberra to Sydney route it would be 33c. It will be interesting to see in the future how accurate these figures are. 
We must all be aware of the fact that in the life of this Government air travel in this countrythat is, the cost of transporting individuals from one place to another- has doubled. I would be surprised if my prophecy of a two-airline price rise does not come to fruition. Ansett 's recent share activities practically guarantee that the airline traveller will have to pay more. Recently I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether, because of changes in the share composition of that private airline operator, there would be. some renegotiation of the airline agreement, and I was informed that there would not be. What has happened? In the last  Vh  years seven increases have been granted to the major airlines. There is no doubt in my mind that before long we will be looking at the eighth. We would expect the Government to be much more obstinate if an attempt were made by the airline operators to raise charges as a result of this legislation. The Opposition believes that the profitability of the major airline companies could quite easily absorb the charges that are suggested here. 
Given this Government's record of aligning itself with the strong against the weak, it is obvious that the writing is on the wall for the little people in the aviation industry. When I say the little people' I am including neither the large number of professional and business people- the doctors and others- who set up taxation schemes or who would avoid their community responsibilities and any other shady operators who prey on the industry and whose livelihoods are not directly affected by hasty decisions, such as the one currently contemplated by the Government. I am talking about the little people in the industry and the person who occasionally wants to use the air as a means of travel. 
The proposed 20 per cent general aviation increase will serve only to exacerbate the already parlous state within that section of the industry. The problems surrounding aviation fuel- avgas -as regards both cost and supply have not been handled competently by the Government. Recently smaller commuter airlines have been forced to cut their services. To give one example, Bizjets, a commuter airline based in Melbourne, cut out flights to the Tasmanian west coast and Smithton last month because of the irregular suplies of fuel. One other company, Katoomba Air Services, ceased operations altogether because of the avgas shortage. Now the Government is proposing to harass the smaller services further by increasing air navigation charges by 20 per cent. 
Let us not forget that a great many people affected by this increase will be involved in agricultural activity. They are men and women whose jobs and living standards are assailed so often by the Liberal and Country Parties. I think that we ought to consider what effect this will have upon those important sections of the Australian community. Compared with prices paid by the international oil companies, the Federal Government has imposed excessive charges on Australians who use aviation fuel. For example, from the end of October 1978 to April 1979, the Prices Justification Tribunal approved price rises totalling 10.85c per litre. Correspondingly, the increase from October 1978 to June 1979 for overseas cargo lots was between 5c and 5.4c per litre. One can see how inequitable this fuel pricing policy is and it exposes the Government's interpretation of the word 'equity'. The public is entitled to speculate on the collective mentality of a government that can allow large exports of avgas to overseas countries like Fiji and, of all places, the United Arab Emirates and then to penalise Australian citizens by expecting them to pay more in fuel levies and to accept rationing of avgas. Now, before the results of the inquiry are known, Australians will be slugged again by this 
Government's proposal to increase general air navigation charges. 
The Government has to draw the line somewhere. For a government that purports to have some ability to manage the economy- it has misled the Parliament in that regard- it has shown itself to be very vulnerable in this area.  Mr Tony  Eggleton might like to include the word 'mismanagement' under the Government's minuses when he prepares his next confidential election campaign strategy. The whole approach by the Federal Government towards avgas has created financial problems for commercial trainee pilots, for small operators and for persons living outside the metropolitan area. For example, if honourable senators look at commercial trainee pilots, in the space of one year the cost of fuel associated with the number of flying hours necessary to gain a licence has risen by $1,000. This proposed 20 per cent increase will have the effect of further deterring young people from a career in aviation. These situations add up to a decline in both employment opportunities and flying standards. 
As I said when debating the 1978 version of this Bill, those people who cannot afford to use airline services on a regular basis and are not in a position to have their flights subsidised by their employers, whoever they may be, will be squeezed out of the market more and more by policies which can only be described as increasing the cost of travel. I think it is fair to say that the Government's high air fare policy is acting as a deterrent to travel. The current proposal can only mean that people, particularly those in the less centralised areas of Australia, will be penalised further. The Government should withdraw this Bill in its present form. It is in this light that I have moved the amendment to the motion for the second reading. 
I  present the following petition from 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament assembled. 
The petition of certain citizens respectfully showeth: 
Their support for and endorsement of the national women's advisory council. 
We call on the government to: 
Continue to maintain the national advisory council and increase Federal Government support for its activities. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister for Social Security called for a further brief from the Minister for Administrative Services on the conduct of the Commonwealth Police in the investigation and treatment of Australian Greek pensioners in 1977 and 1978, given the misleading information she was given on several matters which she appeared to accept without qualification during parliamentary debates last year? 
I  present the following petition from 72 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament assembled. 
The petition of certain citizens respectfully showeth: 
Their support for and endorsement of the National Women 's Advisory Council. 
We call on the Government to: 
Continue to maintain the National Advisory Council and increase Federal Government support for its activities. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is a fact that the Commonwealth Bank of Australia has agreed to provide funds for  Mr Murdoch  to take over the Herald and Weekly Times group? Does this financial backing by a Commonwealth instrumentality indicate that the Government supports the further monopolisation of the media in Australia? Will the Minister investigate the Commonwealth Bank 's involvement in this massive concentration bid and advise the Parliament before we rise for the summer recess of the Government 's attitude to the takeover? 

 -Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to move a motion in respect of the statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  on the social impact of uranium mining on the Northern Territory Aboriginals. 
I will be quite happy to do that, and I seek leave to do so. 
Leave granted. 
In relation to the report by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The statement which has just been tabled by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  on the social impact of mining on the Northern Territory Aboriginals refers only to some part of the report. We have not yet received a copy of the report, and therefore we are at somewhat of a disadvantage, although I would agree with the Minister that the statement probably summarises the main points of the report. Before I make some comments about the stater ment as it relates to the report, I think I should point out that the Parliament is entitled to some explanation about the volume of reports which it has received in this last, dying week of this session. If honourable senators have taken time to examine the reports which have come into their office and also the reports presented today, they will agree with me that, because of the volume of the reports, their importance is lost to the Parliament. This is because of the rather rushed approach taken to the very many important matters which are contained in the reports, and to the recommendations and considerations which are there for the Parliament and for the Public Service to examine. 
Having stated that, I want to refer to the report as summarised in the Minister's statement. What seems to flow from this particular report is a confirmation of the concern that has been expressed by the Opposition during the whole period of negotiations with the Aborigines in the 
Northern Territory as it relates to mining generally, and mining of uranium in particular. Ever since the commencement of land rights and the acquisiton of land in the Territory for the purpose of mining, the Opposition has warned the Government on many occasions- as have many other groups in the Australian communityabout social impact and the destruction of the social life of Aborigines as a result of this mammoth investment by mining groups in our country, and in the Northern Territory. In many ways the report is quite disturbing because it has borne out our fears. It has certainly borne out the concern which has been expressed from time to time about the impact that this situation will have on the life and the environment of the Aborigines in that region. 
It seems to me that the statement, following the report from the Institute of Aboriginal Studies, is an admission that in fact there has not been sufficient surveillance, understanding, or administration of the way in which Aborigines have been affected by mining activities in the Northern Territory. To that extent I think the Government stands indicted for its failure to appreciate the warnings that were given in the Parliament by members of my party and by various other interested groups in Australia on the very considerable social implications which would flow from the development of mining in that region. I say this without setting aside the moral aspect of uranium mining. 
We have said and Government reports have shown- as this report now confirms- that interference with the normal life style and life pattern of Aborigines in that area is a matter which has not been properly understood by the Government. I make no comment about the current Minister, because I think the period in question is relevant. That was the time when  Mr Viner  was hell bent, as I would put it, on stampeding the Aborigines in the area to agree to the Government's proposals. There was abundant evidence in subsequent debates in the Parliament, particularly in the Senate, when we were able to show that  Mr Viner  was in fact forcing the Aborigines to accept Government proposals and forcing them, because of his own persuasive powers, ability, capacity and public position, to accept standards which they did not understand. Now we have a report which underlines and confirms those observations that we made at that time. We said then that if the Government had a proper understanding of the difficulties that the Aborigines had in comprehending what the Government was about, that if it had some compassion about what effect this move would have on the life style of Aborigines and that if it had some understanding that it was attempting to impose a white form of administration, or a European type of administration on the Territory, then it would understand that this matter needed to go through the process of a time scale or a discussion, which should be done in an atmosphere of complete understanding so that each and every Aborigine understood what was involved. 
We said that the problem was related to a question of communication. We said, as this report now points out, that the problem of communication is one which affects all aspects of mining on the people of the region. Effective communications are vital if other problems are to be acted upon successfully. This is the very matter which we emphasised here in debate when we were talking about the establishment of the Northern Land Council and about negotiations that were proceeding. We also emphasised this matter when we talked about the Government's haste and in particular  Mr Viner's  haste and the haste of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  in imposing the will of this Government on the Aborigines in an atmosphere which made it impossible for those Aborigines to comprehend the effects of those negotiations. It was at that point that we made the suggestion to the Government that there ought to be less haste and more compassion. In the Minister's statement we find the following: 
It was originally thought that the Northern Land Council would have had the capacity to provide and receive information relating to mining developments in the region. 
The advice that we preferred to the Government at that time was that the Government should take extraordinary steps to provide the Aborigines with the concepts of what that would do. It was not only the question of losing title to land and of having the land sold, but also the effect that it would have on their own environment. Of course, as the report goes on to say, some of this information was available to the Government at the time in  Mr Justice  Woodward's report following the Ranger inquiry. There was abundant evidence available to the Government of the sort of problems that would accrue. For page after page instances and statements were made, which at that time, the Government completely ignored. When one reads the information from the Australian Mining Council, one gets the view of that selfinterest group. I commend the Minister for tabling the report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, because I think the debates in this Parliament over the last three or four years have at least drawn to the attention of some members of the Government the need to act more vigilantly, to consider their responsibilities afresh, and to re-examine what has happened with a view to taking the sorts of steps in the future that would elevate the protection of the Aborigines to a major principle. 
I stress that I have not actually seen the report; I have only the statement of the Minister. However, the most incredible part of the summary made by the Minister of the report is that now there is recognition that we have to take extraordinary steps to protect the rights of Aborigines, but not in any paternalistic way by saying that they do not understand and therefore we need to act on their behalf. That is not the issue as we see it. The issue is providing them with the information, structures and means by which the decisions that are to be made are of such character that the Aborigines can make a value judgment based on all the facts and not just the financial remuneration that flows from their changed status as land holders. 
Of course, the report goes on to point out that the organisations which have been set up by the Government to handle the funds are concerned that there needs to be not a paternal administration but an administration that provides them with the means of understanding what is going on in their region, of how they can spend their financial resources in a way that does not destroy their culture but which enables them to survive the challenge that mining places in their particular region, and which takes the extra step to show that at all levels of government in Australia we do have a better appreciation of our responsibility than hitherto. It seems to me that it is essential to get that sort of message across to the Government of the Northern Territory. From the various comments that are made from time to time one does sense that there is not the same realisation in the Northern Territory Government that the sorts of problems that are now freely acknowledged in this report places us in a position where history will judge that we did act precipitately and hastily, and that we did not act responsibly because the Government did not understand what its proper obligations were to the people in the Northern Territory, who are the indigenous people of our continent. 
Of course, there needs to be a more detailed study made of the Institute's report. The Opposition would welcome an opportunity at a later date to debate the matter in much more detail. Obviously I want to read the report, as would my colleague  Dr Everingham  who is the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal Affairs. He would want to consult with me on this matter because I only represent him in this place. My own education in this area has been assisted by his compassionate approach to Aborigines. Many of my colleagues have not yet had the opportunity to read even the statement. In the light of that, I intend to seek leave to continue my remarks. I appreciate that there may be one or two other honourable senators who have something to say on the matter, including the Minister. In that sense I would hope that the Senate would provide an opportunity to debate the issues contained in the report. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 - Mr President, I do not want to say very much about the motion except to make some very brief comments. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  was asked some questions about the redistribution which flowed from the decision which was made by the High Court involving an interpretation of the Constitution which required the Government, at a certain time, to create an additional electorate in Western Australia. That was in the case of McKinlay and McKellar which made some new determinations which finally led to the appointment on 22 April 1979 of threee Commissioners to examine the Western Australian redistribution for the purpose of creating an additional seat. They completed their task on. 27 April 1979. They did in fact make certain recommendations to the Government which were then placed on public exhibition. Whilst my party was not very enthusiastic about the redistribution, it nevertheless did not make it a matter of major contention. Only eight objections or submissions were made in respect of the redistributions, and all that the Government is seeking endorsement for now is the final document. 
No explanation has been made to the Parliament either in this place or in the House of Representatives of the reasons for the changes in name. The seat of Canning has been renamed O'Connor, and the new seat of Roe, as has been subsequently recommended in a resolution moved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  is to be named Canning. One can only assume from that that there are some reasons for the members in the particular electorate wanting to be associated with the existing name of the electorate. That seems to be the only conclusion that the Opposition can reach about the proposed name change. The Government's resolution is to adopt substantially the redistribution but in fact to change the name of two of the electorates. As my colleague the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  has indicated in the other place, such is the redistribution that it requires my party to gain more than 50 per cent of the votes in order to exceed the quota of two seats in Western Australia. That is a pretty horrendous sort of situation to envisage. It indicates how difficult it is to have equity in a single electorate constituency arrangement which we have operating in our electoral system in this country. Of course it raises again the need for us to examine perhaps a more equitable system. I do not want to canvass that at this stage other than to say that it is a rather anomalous position that a party has to exceed 50 per cent of the vote in order to win more than two seats out of 1 1. But having said that, one can only hope that the electors in Western Australia will in fact give us more than 50 per cent of the vote so that we can win more than an even share of the seats in that State. 
One can understand the reason why the seat has been named O'Connor.  Mr O'Connor  was a very distinguished engineer in Western Australia. He was a person who was associated with the Constitutional Convention almost 90 years ago. We certainly would not object to a seat being named after  Mr O'Connor,  who played a significant part in the development of the constitution, even though we might say that in an historical sense he was probably partly responsible for the many defects that we have in our Constitution which need change to bring it into the latter part of the thinking process of the 20th century. But  Mr O'Connor  was a very distinguished person in his own right, and he was part of the processes which finally brought about Federation. To that degree we do not raise any objection to the name of Canning being changed to the name of O'Connor. We follow that with the need to maintain the historical link with the seat of Canning, which superseded the electorate of Roe, even though the name Roe, which was proposed by the electoral commissioners, was also an attempt to identify a very significant figure in historical terms in the person of  Mr Roe.  We do not oppose the motion of the Minister.  (Quorum formed). 
The Australian Federal Police (Consequential Amendments) Bill 1979 is a corollary of the Australian Federal Police Bill, which was passed by the Parliament on the last day of sitting of the autumn session. This Bill seeks to make a number of amendments relating to the deletion of the words 'Commonwealth Police' and the insertion of the words 'Australian Federal Police' in 46 different pieces of Commonwealth legislation. We do not oppose the Bill. It follows that we need to make changes to all those pieces of legislation- all those laws- which confer certain rights and obligations upon members of the Commonwealth Police, now known as the Australian Federal Police. 
However, the Opposition wishes to make a couple of points in relation to the Bill we are debating. Nowhere in either the major legislation of six months ago- the Australian Federal Police Act- or in the legislation before us are references made to the activities of, for example, the Special Branch of the Australian Federal Police. Nowhere in the original legislation or in this legislation is any reference made to the changes which the Australian Federal Police will have to make as a result of the disbanding of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. Nowhere is any reference made to the excessive use of telephone tapping, which has become fairly common place in the activities of the Australian Federal Police. I take the opportunity to express our concern about that. 
In the last week, as a result of the revelations that have been made in the hearing of the court case in Sydney involving the social security conspiracy, I have had brought to me further evidence which indicates that senior officers of the Australian Federal Police do not seem to know what their obligations are and do not seem to respect regulations which have been established by the national Parliament in respect of telephone tapping, for example. I have received further evidence indicating that there has been an extension of those irregularities by the Australian Federal Police and, indeed, by the Federal Narcotics Bureau. It ought to be brought to the attention of the Parliament that there is a dereliction of duty and a negation of the responsibilities and obligations which are shown to be now part of the responsibilities of the Australian Federal Police, in particular in relation to the interception of telephone calls. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October: 
1 ) Is the Government aware that the former GovernorGeneral of Papua New Guinea,  Sir John  Guise, Member of Parliament, has recently spoken out against Indonesia's expansionist designs ' towards Papua New Guinea? 
Has a member of the Papua New Guinea Opposition, Miss Josephine Abaijah, suggested the integration of Papua New Guinea with the Federation of Greater Indonesia? 
Has the Government any knowledge of an Indonesian plan called Operation Bird of Paradise, which aims to prepare the grounds for the eventual absorption of Papua New Guinea into Indonesia and sets a timetable for this development from 1979 to 1984? 
Has the Government taken any special steps, financially or militarily, to provide extra support for the independence of Papua New Guinea, particularly in view of the degree of political instability in Indonesia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
Has the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation suggested a policy of world parity for the pricing of industrial and stockfeed wheat; if so, how does the suggestion of the Federation accord with the Government's stated policy of fighting inflation. 
Is it estimated that an increase of at least 20 per cent per annum in food inflation in Australia would result from the adoption of such a policy. 
