Did the Minister for Transport in May make a recommendation that the site of Sydney's second airport not be at Galston? Has the Government considered his recommendation? If no consideration has been given to this matter, when will it be considered? In the hiatus of decision what will be done to alleviate the noise problem for people living near Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport at Mascot? 
-In assuming my seat in this place, I cannot leave unsaid a tribute to my predecessors who have made such an outstanding contribution to Australia, the people of Mitchell, and the Liberal Party. I pay tribute to  Mr Roy  Wheeler who was the member for Mitchell for 4 terms and who was held in the highest esteem by the many people who knew his kindly good nature. We pay tribute to bis service. It is not 2 years since  Mr Les  Irwin, C.B.E., left this place after 9 years of dedicated service to the people of Mitchell. It was his boast that he knew each school in the electorate and that he had never been out of the electorate for a holiday or on parliamentary business, except for the pilgrimage he made with many others to the site of the first landing of the Anzacs at Gallipoli. I suppose that the story that I value most of Les Irwin is one which portrays his forthright and indomitable spirit. It is the story of him walking down the front steps of Parliament House after an all night sitting, and as the sun was rising over Canberra, singing in bis powerful voice: 'Oh What a Beautiful Morning'.  His  friends will be pleased to know that he and his charming wife Maudie are both well and are achieving outstanding success in other fields.  Mr Roy  Wheeler and  Mr Les  Irwin have set a tradition in Mitchell which will provide me with goals to which to aspire- It will be my honest endeavour to fill my position as member for Mitchell with the understanding and forceful activity that my predecessors demonstrated. 
The electorate of Mitchell is the largest in New South Wales and the third largest in Australia. It is one of the fastest growing areas in New South Wales, but as yet this area has not attracted much attention. Constant submissions from local government bodies and individual groups are required so that the needs of such a fast growing area can receive attention for what can only be diagnosed as a population explosion. The admirable community traits of civic pride and involvement seem to go unrecognised. When a city expands, great pressures are placed on all services that must be supplied to the outer fringe, be it water, sewerage- we have spoken of that matter today- roadways, schools or community centres. The effect of spreading a large city can have unthought of ramifications. The social and physical problems of adding another population centre or a band to the outer fringe of a city attract more comments on the profits of developers than the real problems that follow the subdivisions. The vital, simple things of living are often overlooked. 
When houses and roadways are built, about one-third of the land's surface is sealed by the houses, concrete footpaths, roads and gutters which are impervious and shed all water. When rain falls the run-off, once the soil is saturated, increases by 50 per cent. On a normal houseblock one inch of rain is equivalent to 6,500 gallons of water. Over 2,000 gallons are shed by roofs, pathways and roadways. In Toongabbie, Pendle Hill, Wentworthville, Seven Hills, Prospect, Winston Hills and Baulkham Hills this happens many thousands of time over from every block of land. All the surplus runs into one shallow creek- Toongabbie Creek. When heavy rain falls on a catchment of this size, within a couple of hours the waterways are brimming and are flooding into houses that were built far above flood levels 12 years ago. Families are forced out of their houses. There have been fatalities. Yet there has been no interest from any authority. Parramatta City Council cannot be expected to cope with such a problem that extends into at least 4 other local government areas. 
In most floods early this year, roads were cut and families forced out of their homes 3 times within a few days. If this waterway is cleaned and channelled, the volume of water which would reach the main centre of Parramatta would be such that water would build up against Lennox Bridge and the whole business section would be flooded. The May floods were only 9 inches from doing this. The project is a huge one. I have heard it said that before results can be satisfactory, Parramatta River should be deepened by commencing dredging of rock and sand at Ryde at a rough cost of $200m. Instead of appointing experts, it is time that priorities set by the people and not by someone remote from the place of concern are attended to. If the large increase in funds that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is to collect is to service people and not the institution, then immediate steps should be taken to appoint a survey team to investigate this problem. It is a huge and growing one. Every additional square foot of road or roof in these western suburbs increases run-off area and brings the centre of Parramatta closer to a major flood. Building of homes cannot be stopped entirely. People living with the threat of increasingly serious floods realise that there is a very serious drainage crisis to be dealt with. 
Let me move now to the other end of the Mitchell electorate. This is served by 2 capable and dedicated local government bodies- Windsor Municipal Council and Colo Shire Council. But here we see people forced to travel 200 miles to work or to receive medical treatment under great difficulties whenever the Hawkesbury River floods. Great hardship is experienced by families with sick children when they have to get ill children medical attention. A total of 9 days schooling has been missed by children in a period of 14 days. The urgent need agreed upon by both councils and residents was the need for flood-free access. The cost to a community, and a continuing cost in terms of State communications to the west of the State, makes the priorities set by people and their local representatives top priorities. When priorities other than those set by the residents or their representatives take precedence over needs, even if the scheme is most commendable, waste and distrust set in. 
Even important projects in the area like planting trees- there would be no local government area in the whole of the country with more trees than the Colo Shire- and even more important projects such as the building of civic centres, surely must pale into insignificance when compared with the lives, health and well-being of people. If we are to have priorities set, let that be done by those who know what they need and not by some remote person. If the Federal funds already put into the towns of Windsor, Richmond and districts had been applied to urgent bridgeworks, there would now be no serious disruption or hardship in times of flood. 
I am afraid I have another small untruth to add to those being told about tariffs and imports. The mushroom industry is at the moment under consideration by the Industries Assistance Commission. Protection is being sought for the industry against imports of mushrooms from the Republic of China and Taiwan, which have doubled. Over 50 per cent of the entire Australian production of mushrooms comes from the electorate of Mitchell where 600 people will lose employment within 6 months unless there is a recognition that a modern, technologically advanced industry which has pulled itself up by the bootstraps is worth saving. The IAC must be convinced that this industry is worth-saving. The mushroom industry is one of the most advanced industries in the world, with yields matching those of any country. Efficiency is extremely high. Across the board decisions on tariffs and a constant pull of the United States dollar have made it possible for imports to double in quantity and value during the last 12 months. If it is Government policy to change the face of industry, hard working individuals cannot be subjected to instant aboutface. The Australian Mushroom Growers Association has acted in a most responsible manner to cause this matter to be brought before the Commission. But if the answer is no, no one who works in any industry that can be attacked by imports is safe in his or her job. Surely for the protection of workers and jobs, we need to stop importing unemployment. 
Last week we heard much of decentralisation. Many authorities consider that the way to successful decentralisation is the decentralisation of industry and provision of jobs in country areas. Part of the problem of establishing new industries is the cost of transporting raw materials and finished products and the cost of day to day overheads, of which telephone and telex communications are an important part. The decentralisation of Government departments plays an important part in providing access to departments without the need to have constant reference to a centralised office, be it in Sydney, Melbourne or Canberra. Jobs for the clerk, computer operator, concretor and the truckie need to be provided at all times in a decentralised situation. But above aU there must be continuing growth of employment so that families can stay together when children go out to find their first jobs. 
All parties represented here pay attention to decentralisation in their platforms. This week considerations of special assistance to the textile industry in country areas are taking place. The town of Riverstone has a small population. It is about 30 miles from Sydney- a country town based on a meat works and a woollen mill. I point out that 12 months ago the mill employed 1 17 workers. Now it has only 24 employees and it is likely to close. Monetary shifts and tariff cuts have brought - 
-I am telling a small untruth at the moment. Monetary and tariff cuts have brought down to slow motion the machines which formerly worked 146 hours a week and are now working 34 hours a week. Why? The answer is a doubling of the importation of knitting material from South Africa- not from China but from South Africa- and the imports are synthetics. How can proper decentralisation be seriously considered when mills like this one- I am talking about a mill that established a pre.shrunk system and the set crease system with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation- and those in outer country areas are closing without any chance of replacement, affecting men who have given their whole working lives to learn a skill that cannot be picked up overnight in any retraining scheme? Australians dedicated to the manufacture of Australian products cannot be thoughtlessly left to die on the vine. 
All that is spoken about the deprived western suburbs is basically true, I suppose. But it is also true of many other areas. Australian people cannot be categorised. That may be necessary in applying statistics so that people may understand how such things as buying trousers and homes are related, but it cannot be done without an understanding of life style and peculiar problems. Categorisation will continue to divide the community and produce frictions that are almost unknown in this country. I object just as strongly to terms like 'workers' and 'employers'. Very few people do not work. To categorise and to label them will produce resentment and splits. In the suburbs of Toongabbie, Winston Hills, Baulkham Hills and Castle Hill, there are the needs that can be found in any western suburb. These include young people with young families, mortgages, interest rate problems and cost of living stresses. 
Winston Hills has a total population of 1 8,000 people. The largest age group is from 0 to 4 years. The average age of a home is 8 years. There is no public hall, no swimming pool, and no pre-school kindergarten. The community uses what is affectionately known as the 'cow shed' because that is what it was until the Winston Hills Progress Association, with voluntary labour, refurnished the old dairy to be used as a meeting room for district organisations. Will a budget of 'reform and progress to make Australia a fairer country' recognise a group of people who have raised $2,000 in 2 years by selling raffle tickets and holding street stalls to establish a pre-school kindergarten? Or will artificial boundaries of deprivation be erected so that people are categorised? The outer seams of Sydney are bursting. The sure sign that this is happening is the demand for kindergartens, casual care centres, day care centres and other types of flexible facilities for young children. How can young people with heavy commitments provide everything by raising funds for buildings at the rate of $1,000 a year. Increases in building costs alone make the annual fund raising process 30 per cent less effective each year. These people possess the individuality that should be encouraged, not dampened. 
The Budget proposes a massive 32.4 per cent increase in the collection of revenue from the Australian people. At a time when responsible family managers are finding it more and more difficult to make ends meet the proposed additional Government expenditure when most people are taking in their belts and starting to realise that they have to look after their jobs, the Government has announced that the reply to such a climate is 'More of the same'. More of the same may be disaster. The people of Mitchell are true Australians, independent and loyal to what they believe in. It will be my privilege to represent them. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has the most peculiar habit of avoiding the topic under discussion, that is, the Australian Government's involvement in what can only amount to a contempt of court. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! No point of order is involved. The subject matter of the debate is wide enough to permit those comments to be made. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In a telegram received by  Mr J.  Jorgensen of the Master Builders Federation on 4 September this year the Secretary of the Australian 
Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation set out the conditions which will apply to the building industry. Those conditions relate to 6 companies. The second paragraph of the telegram, which has been incorporated in Hansard, reads: 
That these bans are not suitable to be placed stoppages of a guerrilla-type nature will occur and further we ask branches to consider the advisability of placing a national levy on the members to assist in the nation paid rates award campaign. 
I refer to the findings of the Australian Industrial Court, which heard the case of the Master Builders Federation and the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Federation, in which  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Joske said: 
It is union policy that a good time to go on a site is during a concrete pour. 
That was referred to by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  But in his findings in the same case  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Smithers said, as reported at page 10: 
It is clear that there is a policy of creating an image of a union with  irresistable  power. It is useful to cause fear in those who would resist to its demands or what it rather regards as its orders. 
I believe that newspaper men who read those findings would find superlatives, which are used every day by them, being used by the 3 responsible and very senior judges. 'Extortion', 'industrial payments' and 'muscle' are words that are used time and again. Following the deregistration of the union about which we are speaking the High Court of Australia issued a writ against  Her  Honour Justice Evatt. The Minister has, quite rightly, pointed out that this matter is sub judice. We are not referring to this matter in any way, as the Minister well knows. This writ was issued on the application of 6 firms and the affidavits of 8 individuals. The High Court must be held in contempt in this case by the findings in the case of Australian Iron and Steel Ltd against the Illawarra Deputies and Shotfirers Association that was heard in Banco by  Mr Justice  Street,  Mr Justice  Owen and  Mr Justice  Herron. 
-I bow to your ruling,  Sir. 
-I will observe your ruling in this matter,  Sir. As  I was saying, in the case I have just mentioned before  Mr Justice  Street,  Mr Justice  Owen and  Mr Justice  Herron in the Banco court it was held in similar circumstances that contempt did apply where pressure was put on - 
-I am referring to a past case,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Under the terms of the motion the Government has been requested to take the matter up and deal with it, as only the Attorney-General can under the situation as it now exists. Stoppages have taken place against firms following the threats made in the telegram. The firms have been held to ransom almost so that they will not appear before the High Court. How can that situation continue to exist in Australia and how can the Minister and the Government continue to adopt the attitude they are adopting at present, of instigating no inquiries through the Attorney-General and issuing no instructions that the matter be investigated? How can the signatories to the affidavits and the companies which have appealed to the High Court be protected? What will happen if the 3 companies withdraw under pressure? What will happen to the individuals who have signed the affidavits? What is their position? What sort of pressure will be put on to them or what forms of intimidation will they and their families have to undergo so that they will not appear before the High Court? 
I remind honourable members of the Fitzpatrick and Browne case in this House in 1955 in which newspaper articles were used to influence and intimidate a former honourable member for Reid. Similar circumstances apply in this case. I agree generally with the terms of great generality with which the Minister dealt in this case of employment and industrial relations. The matter with which we are dealing now is a specific matter of contempt. I believe, as does the Minister, that the people of Australia want to get down and work and that the families, wives and children of people employed in industry, whether it be the building industry or any other, want to be able to rely on receiving a weekly income that is not interfered with by any person outside or any influence which they themselves do not commission. I believe, and I would say that the Liberal Party of Australia believes, that the laws of this country should be such that they allow all people involved in employment a fair go so that they have no hesitation in applying to a court and feel no restriction in applying to a court and they do not wish to be dominated in any way, as the Builders Labourers Federation portends to do in this case. 
-I rise to speak about the Department of the Special Minister of State and particularly in regard to child care. I trust that my remarks may be considered by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to be somewhat of a constructive nature. This is an area which no doubt concerns all parties represented in this chamber. I must say in my opening remarks, however, that I feel that in some ways the Minister may be a compromised Minister in that his portfolio seems more closely related to either education or social security. However, I do not wish to reflect on his personal ability. 
The definition of terms in this area is to my mind most difficult. Reading the publications of the Australian Government Social Welfare 
Commission or other documents related to the child care area, I find that the terms used seem to conflict at times. Pre-school care, child care, long-day care, play groups and many other terms are used to describe the functions of the care of young children. I would suggest to the Minister that we get firm definitions so that the general public knows what is meant when these terms are used in reports or by people who are expert in the field. Furthermore, I would suggest that we use the term 'child care' to apply as it generally has and traditionally does to long term, long-day child care, where parents may leave their children at a centre from early in the morning until reasonably late in the evening, certainly for 5 days a week. No doubt honourable members are all familiar with the pre-school kindergarten system. The play groups organisation is a new organisation that is gaining great force and is perhaps the fastest growing organisation in the country. Two years ago there were no members of that organisation, and I believe there are now 1 5,000 children involved in play groups. 
In reading the reports I feel that, whilst there has been great expertise brought to play in the preparation of the reports, the people who are vitally concerned have been given only a somewhat limited chance to have a say in the direction that these proposals are going. I would suggest that the Minister find the needs, look at the needs, and refer to the people who are involved so as to find out what their needs are. In particular, I would refer him to a recent initial survey done in the Blacktown-Mount Druitt area of Sydney where it was definitely indicated by mothers in a random survey that 90 per cent of mothers would like sessional care of their children or a play group situation. The long-day care to most mothers does not seem to be attractive, and this is not unusual. Mothers right across the country are the same. You cannot divide mothers or motherhood by saying that there are deprived areas or wealthy areas. Their concern for their children and the young Australians that they are fostering is the same no matter where they live. I would like the Minister to keep this point in mind when referring to the Commission any matters in the child care area. The project care book that has been prepared has an innuendo in relation to long-day child care that it is something that will take the children, look after them and deny the parents the responsibility that is rightly theirs. In fact, in searching the booklet I found that there are sections that definitely state this. 
I would also refer the Minister to surveys of married women who are wives of members of the Electrical Trade Union. These surveys, done in 1971, indicated that 96 per cent of the women would prefer to stay at home with their children, certainly until they reach the age of three and many said until they reach the age of five. A further survey done in 1973 supported this earlier finding. If the Government is moving in the direction of total day care for children I would suggest that it consider its position very carefully and look to Hungary and Czechoslovakia for some guidance in this matter. Comparatively recently Hungary had 50 per cent of its children in child care centres. The Hungarian Government is now using television advertising to encourage parents to stay at home with their children. It is providing a form of child endowment to encourage parents to do so. It has found that the cost of the scheme is so gigantic that it is difficult to foot the bill. There are also problems with the children who have been through this system for some years who are now teenagers. The Government and society has found that the problems of children who have difficulty in the fixation of a family way of life are really great indeed. 
I would refer the Minister also to the comments of  Dr Mean  on Czechoslovakia which indicate that a similar attitude is being adopted by that country. It no longer encourages mothers to leave their young children in centres provided for them but encourages them to stay at home with their families. In this matter too we must consider costs. It will be seen from the project care booklet that a round figure for on-going costs per child seems to be $1,000 a year. I think it is a little under that, but the report is constantly becoming dated by recent salary increases for people who are expert in that field. My investigations indicate that the capital expenditure could be something like $2,500 per child, which amounts to something like $250,000 per 100 children. Therefore you have a capital cost of $250,000 per 100 children, an on-going cost of something like $ 1,000 a year per child. 
I would draw the Minister's attention to the situation of our established system of child care. I would suggest to him that if new initiatives are to be taken m the field of child care they cannot be taken at the expense of existing systems. There should be retained a freedom of choice and a certain amount of flexibility so that parents have the right to decide, to make a choice between alternate forms of child care. 
In relation to the States and the fostering of existing schemes I would like to quote from the booklet that came with the Treasury documents entitled 'Payments to or for the States and Local 
Government Authorities 1974-75'. The booklet states at page 57: 
At the time this document was prepared details of the scheme, including such matters as the extent to which the assistance would take the form of payments to the States (as distinct from grants direct to local government authorities and private organisations) had not been settled. It is therefore not possible to conclude what grants might be paid to the States for these purposes in 1974-75. However, for purposes of budget documentation only, an estimate of $37.5m for grants to the States has been made. For the same purpose, it is assumed that, of this total, approximately $20. 5m could be for recurrent purposes and $ 17.0m for capital purposes. No commitment to the provision of these amounts is implied. As both the total allocations and allocations to individual States will depend on decisions as to needs as seen by the Interim Committee and the Commission when it is established, it was not possible, at the time this document was prepared, to provide useful -estimates on a State by State basis. 
I would urge the Minister to turn his attention immediately to this area. I am told that organisations that have on-going expenditure are in dire circumstances at the moment and there is a possibility that fees will increase rapidly if traditional support is not supplied very soon. I would suggest to the Minister that some of the sunshine talk in the documents from which I have quoted should be translated into some form of activity which is tangible, which can be seen by the community and which is available to children now in this area. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct to the Special Minister of State a question regarding child care. Is the Minister aware that a number of the 750 community pre-school centres in New South Wales is facing financial difficulties at the moment? Does he recognise any Federal Government responsibility for continuing assistance through the States, which has been a practice for the last 5 to 6 years, or does he intend to cut off funds until a new government scheme is imposed? Is the Minister allowing the exhaustion of interim finance which terminated at the beginning of this month with no funds available until January under the Government's new scheme? Does he expect centres for young children to continue to operate without funds during this period, despite the Prime Minister's undertaking in August that States would receive recurrent grants similar to those under the existing program? 
-At the outset I think I should say something to protect my friend the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  I think the honourable member for Eden-Monaro should recognise great dedication and enthusiasm to a cause when he sees it. He should be prepared to overlook some of the shortcomings displayed by this most valuable member, a member who makes a very great contribution to the activities of this House. 
I would like to commence my remarks on the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development by dealing with the balance between the Grants Commission and the area improvement program. A total of something like $56m has been allocated / local government by the Grants Commission. This amount of money has been allocated on a formula and the basic consideration, as I understand it, is on a needs basis. However, I find myself quite at a loss to understand exactly how these needs are assessed because within my own electorate I see great variation and great differences in the allocation of these funds. I would suggest that when the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is considering the area improvement program he should try to balance the shortfall, the differences, the oversights of the Grants Commission by placing in those areas where there has been a shortfall assistance under this area improvement program. 
I would like to give the Minister some examples in this regard. I want to quote from the document entitled 'Urban and Regional Development 1974-75' circulated by the Minister. The document states: 
The formulation of comprehensive development strategy plans for areas currently growing rapidly is important to future integrated development. 
The document continues: 
A further $45,000 was spent on studies and strategy plans for the Colo area of Sydney, which is under pressure because of the large number of city people seeking recreational outlets. 
I think that is a most commendable plan. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has examined this plan with me. But the problem is that there has been no follow-up to this action. It does not look as though there will be follow-up action unless the Minister is prepared to initiate a second implementation or to give a second boost to the initial study. I am sure that the people involved in this local government area can understand the problems. But they need assistance, particularly financial assistance if the area study or the strategic plan that has been carried out on recreational facilities is to be of any value to them. 
Another matter which I wish to raise concerns the Baulkham Hills Shire Council which has received a princely sum of $68,000 from the Grants Commission. Local government bodies in the surrounding areas received from $120,000 to something touching $ 1 m. 
In no way whatsoever. I do not wish to imply that. I wish to see some balance and understanding as to why the differences in grants between local government areas have occurred. In no way do I decry the grant given to the Blacktown Council because I sincerely believe it is needed. However, I would like to point out that the Baulkham Hills Shire Council charges some of the lowest rates in Australia and is one of the most efficient bodies in Australia. I believe that this local government body is being penalised because of its efficiency. I believe that a simple assessment of the rates charged or a simple assessment of the facilities provided does not take into reckoning the true abilities of local bodies or councils. It does not take into account their ability to raise funds. These factors can so easily be overlooked. 
I would like to suggest at this stage that an inbuilt formula based perhaps on the mileage of roads, condition of roads and the population increase within municipalities could be considered. The Baulkham Hills Shire Council is the fastest growing local government body in New South Wales. A formula which took into account population growth could well alleviate many of the problems of that area. People in the shire are scattered far and wide and the Council is battling to keep facilities up to them. 
The area improvement program is decided and assessed by the staff of the Minister. But I feel so often these people go into an area with little local knowledge at their disposal and pick up a program that may be dealt with in isolation and as a result can easily be misled into making a decision on what is applicable to an area or what is a cohesive plan for the local government body concerned. The officers whom I have seen have often tended to pick a program that is rather spectacular, something that will cause comment but which may not be related to the overall development of a local government area. I mention in passing the planting of many trees in the Shire of Colo. I think I mentioned this matter in my maiden speech. No doubt the Minister is aware that this sort of situation cannot be allowed to continue. No doubt in the future officers of his Department will be more careful in considering local needs and the true feeling of people in an area. It is all very well to pick something from the list provided by a local government body which is spectacular, but I trunk that any program that is chosen must be related to the priorities of the residents. 
I notice that the Government has allocated $ 14. 1 m for area improvement in the forthcoming years. I think it is unfortunate that we cannot look at the on-going costs of local government because there is no doubt that there will be a great increase in rates this year. I know that some councils and municipalities are looking at proposals to increase rates by something like 30 per cent to 50 per cent. These increases have been forced on the councils by increases in interest rates and wages which are items completely outside their control. Additional staff has been required to run many of the programs carried on under the area improvement program and perhaps in some small way this program has helped to encourage a bad and very serious development in the finances of local government. 
I should like to conclude my speech by commenting on the incorporation of matters such as the National Estate within the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Reading through the Estimates I frequently came across wording such as lands, buildings, preserved, restore, enhance, conserve and environment. I suggest to the Minister that traditionally and on the lead given to us by many countries with a great many more years experience in this field than we have had, the most effective way of dealing with the problem of matters coming under the National Estate- I do not in any way wish to decry the excellence of this program- is to place them under the Environment portfolio which has a team of specialists, people who are closely related to a study of the area, the preservation of buildings and the seeking out of historic sites and in fact historical towns. 
The links between conservation, preservation and the environment are, in my view, the ones that are very close and I would feel that despite the Minister's interest in the matter they are best dealt with under the Department of Environment and Conservation. In fact, I have noted on many occasions that the Minister responsible for that portfolio seldom makes a statement and seldom initiates anything without a covering statement from the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Frankly I cannot understand this. Do we have a form of co-operation or do we have a form of oversight on your part,  Mr Minister,  because I think that this area should be divorced from your portfolio so as to give it the proper and continuous attention that such an important program deserves. 
I am pleased to see that the Government is now coming around to the Opposition's way of thinking by recognising the problems of the housing industry and the problems that people have in finding a home. Having successfully downgraded the whole of the building industry and the ability of people to buy homes the Government is now becoming aware of the rent problem. 
We are now reaching the time of the year, as summer approaches, when the weather is getting hotter. At this time of the year the soft drink vending machines are rattling and cafe and milk bar proprietors are doing a roaring trade in soft drinks and fruit drinks. The soft drink industry is a multi-million dollar industry with the annual turnover of $203.5m. I am told that the annual growth rate of this industry is something like 12 per cent. There have been times over the last few years when it has even been necessary to import soft drinks and fruit drinks to sustain production in the local industry. I wish to emphasise the size of the industry and the demand that the public has for this beverage. However, the public and the consumer have no way of assessing what they are buying. They have no indication from the packaging or from the containers exactly what is inside the bottle, can or plastic jar. The National Health and Medical Research Council was approached 4 years ago with a view to rationalising labelling and giving the consumer some concept of the true value of the nutrients, if in fact there are any, contained in soft drinks and fruit drinks. The approach was made with a view to encouraging producers of soft drinks to label their products so that the consumer could properly assess the purchase. 
There are a number of soft drink and fruit drink products on the market at the moment. Probably the most rapidly expanding one is the single strength fruit drink which comes in half gallon or 2-litre plastic jars. A number of varieties of this type of drink can be found on the shelves. The housewife consumer on looking at these products would naturally think that they were all comparable, that they were all interchangeable and that they were all the same product. However, if the consumer looked along these shelves he or she would find that there is a price variation between the products. Under the labelling regulations as they exist at the moment there can be variations of between 20 per cent and 95 per cent in the fruit content of these containers. A consumer cannot possibly assess the fruit content of these different products unless he or she is well aware of the labelling regulations that exist at the moment. One has to look for a single word on the label to ascertain whether the product is a drink or a juice. 
It seems to me that we are jeopardising the right of choice of people who really need to make a proper decision on what product they buy. We are jeopardising the right of choice of mothers, of invalids and also of people who are becoming conscious of their health in times of stress and high cholesterol levels. People are aware of what they are drinking and eating. It would seem to be a reasonable proposition that people should be able to know whether the product they are buying is indeed as it appears to be or whether it is something different. It is not my intention to advocate the restriction of choice in this matter. I think that while people need to know what they are buying they need not be restricted in any way as to what they decide to buy. If they decide to buy the real thing, so much the better. If they decide to consume something in their home that is not health giving, that is their decision. 
Carbonated drinks- the normal fizzy soft drinks- also come within this category. Again there is no way of assessing the composition of the contents of soft drink cans. No doubt many of us have seen soft drink advertisements depicting people dancing through orchards laden with fruit. In fact the fruit content of some of these products has been as low as .01 per cent skin oil of the fruit depicted on the label. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is nodding agreement and no doubt he is aware of the circumstances. I realise that this matter may not be in his jurisdiction. However, I would urge him to bring this matter to the notice of his colleague, the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison).  When I rang the National Health and Medical Research Council this morning I was advised that there was no one there to answer my questions. 
Yes, I realise that. The conference is to last until Friday. But there was no one who could readily give information to me in regard to the latest regulations. I would like to know what proposals the Council has to establish some sort of guidelines to the States in the labelling of products. 
The Minister for Health will no doubt be aware too that the States almost automatically follow directly the recommendations of the Council. New South Wales and Victoria have acted in some directions; they have moved to alter regulations concerning the labelling of these products so that people can make a better assessment. However, the Council has done nothing in regard to this matter for 4 years. I think that the cry at times tends to be: 'We will wait and implement a codex alimentarius of our own here in Australia.' This is a fine objective. It is something with which all Australians would agree. But despite the comments that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made about initiatives that the Government is taking, there seems to have been no constructive contribution to ongoing and vital matters that have been raised over a long period. 
It is interesting to note that synthetic drinks, which are pure chemical and which may be mixed with water and which were advertised in a most misleading manner when they were first brought on to the market, are being denied the consumer. Perhaps this is a good thing. But I would not suggest that the consumer should not be allowed to make a choice. The fact that a product does not contain any basic nutrient or fruit should be clearly stated on its label so that people will know what they are buying. Certainly the label should show whether the nutrient or fruit content of a drink is nil or .0 1 per cent. 
I suppose that in this Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill we are dealing with the other aspect of transport which would concern most honourable members. The first aspect was dealt with in the Roads Grants Bill but now we come to the urban public transport section. Often there is a conflict between these 2 areas of transportbetween funds allocated for roads and funds allocated for urban public transport. It seems to be a popular trend these days to promote greater use of public transport, and if we consider the use of resources undoubtedly there is much merit in this promotion. However with both systems there are problems. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is well aware of the problems that can occur with the total development of a road system or the total and sole development of a public transport system. The public transport system is susceptible to breakdowns, stoppages and disputes. Recently in Sydney people were thrown into confusion and great chaos arose at peak hours when a minor dispute arose involving workers in the transport unions. Peak hour trains were brought to a halt. Such incidents tend to discourage the patrons of public transport. On the other hand, of course, the private motor vehicle tends to be wasteful of resources as well as tending to be destructive in its development and in its need for roadways and expressways. 
The complexity of this problem is outlined if one examines the Sydney Area Transportation Study- the so-called Nielsen plan- in which  Dr Nielsen  went to great lengths to indicate the relationship between planning and transport. In his study  Dr Nielsen  took into consideration such matters as manufacturing industries, where people need to be employed, office work, schooling, shopping and the social and recreation needs for roadways and public transport. Despite this close relationship between transport and planning I doubt whether there is any real need for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to have a part of the roads allocation- some $30m. However, I say that in passing. I feel that this is a transport matter and rightly should fall under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Transport. Surely it is his sole prerogative to deal with matters of transport and to integrate new transport systems into existing schemes. 
I should like to quote from the Nielsen report the objectives that were set out before the study team commenced its work. I will touch on them briefly as I have made arrangements with the Minister for Transport to have incorporated in Hansard this section of the report. I draw to the attention of the House the great diversity of aspects of transport which need to be investigated when developing any sort of system. The first objective set out in the report reads: 
Evaluate the present transport network and use it as the basis for developing recommended systems for future years. 
I had previously made arrangements with the Minister for Transport. I seek leave. 
The objectives of the Sydney Area Transportation Study. 
It contains about 10 paragraphs. The study carries a lot of weight and they are fine objectives. 
1 ) Evaluate the present transport network and use it as the basis for developing recommended systems for future years. 
Existing major highway and public transport facilities represent a large investment and must form the basis for any future system expansions. 
Develop a series of analytical techniques that can be used to evaluate the transport consequences of alternative land use/transportation plans. 
Transportation planning requires the use of simulation techniques to accurately forecast future travel patterns. 
Develop a series of analytical techniques that can be used to evaluate costs and benefits of alternative transportation systems. 
These techniques allow benefits from various alternatives to be expressed in monetary terms, so that they can be weighed against the capital costs involved. 
Prepare estimates of preliminary capital improvement plans for future years. 
The cost of implementation of recommended systems must not exceed the financial resources that the community is prepared to devote to transportation in the Sydney Region. 
Investigate the inducements necessary to develop the use of public transport, rather than private transport, for repetitive journeys along heavily travelled routes, as far as this may prove desirable. 
A viable public transport system is an essential ingredient of a modern, dynamic urban community. 
Ascertain reasonable levels of service for all major movements of persons and goods. 
Reasonable levels of service must be defined, and then introduced into the various transport systems. 
Produce a series of alternative proposals indicating how the transportation elements of the Sydney Region Outline Plan can be implemented. 
Analysis of a number of land use/transportation alternatives allows development of transportation systems most appropriate for the Region. 
Ensure that transportation planning in the Sydney Region is co-ordinated with all other types of planning. 
The inter-relationship between transport and land use is one of the most important factors to consider when planning for urban growth. In the case of Sydney, while topography has influenced the location of the transportation system, the system itself has exerted a dominant influence on the shape of the metropolitan area. Future transport development in Sydney must be closely linked to expansion plans for the residential, commercial and industrial centres in the Region. 
-I thank the House. The study refers also to the preparation of estimates of preliminary capital improvement plans for future years and the need to ensure that transportation planning in the Sydney region is co-ordinated with all other types of planning. Looking through the Nielsen plan and the Minister's speech concerning the proposals provided for under this Bill, I would like to deal specifically with the proposals for a railway spur running from Parramatta to beyond Castle Hill. I would like to quote first of all from a document entitled 'Australian Transport 1973-74', which was prepared by the Department of Transport. It states: 
As an adjunct to other Government moves to encourage the growth of Parramatta, the Prime Minister in February 1974 wrote to the Premier of New South Wales offering to construct a three branch railway system for Parramatta. The proposed new routes lead to the Hoxton Park area southwest of Parramatta, north-east through Carlingford to the Epping area and to the Castle Hill area in the north-west. 
I come now to the relevant part. It continues: 
The Prime Minister proposed that this service be operated using the best contemporary rolling stock obeying the most up-to-date signalling. He also promised that the Australian Government would cover any operating losses on these railways so that NSW would not be out of pocket- 
I repeat the words 'would cover any operating losses'. On the other hand, we have had the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  saying something completely different. The Treasurer has said that the Australian Government has made an offer to the New South Wales Government to construct and operate a railway radiating from Parramatta. Then again the Minister for Transport has said something else. The Minister has said that the Prime Minister has offered to construct at no cost to New South Wales. We have 3 differing and varying ideas of what is going to happen there. I think that some clarification is needed on this matter. The Prime Minister has said that the Australian Government will cover operating losses, the Treasurer has said that the Australian Government will construct and operate and the Minister for Transport has offered in his speech to construct at no cost to New South Wales. 
I feel that no decision has been made in this matter. In fact we have had a great deal of imagination and perhaps one could say some airy-fairy dreaming, but no real thinking through of how this thing is going to work. I would like the Minister to comment later on how these things are going to operate. Is the Commonwealth going to do the constructing? It it going to pay for the construction? Is it going to operate the service? Is it going to consider the Nielsen plan and the thoughts and proposals about the laying down of tracks by the New South Wales Government? The New South Wales Government has its own plans. Will it be consulted or are we going to have a complete Commonwealth run railway of some 10 to 15 miles which will have Commonwealth guards, Commonwealth drivers and Commonwealth ticket collectors? I hope that nothing so drastic or inconsistent as that will happen, but the Treasurer has said that the Australian Government will construct and operate a railway radiating from Parramatta. The people of this area need this sort of transport system. I am sure that public transport of this type certainly would be appreciated by all the people residing in the Castle Hill area, to the south and even to the north of it as it develops. They will appreciate the opportunity of being able to avail themselves of public transport that runs on a regular basis into Parramatta. 
When we come to look at what type of system will operate we again have a variance. The Prime Minister, in the quotation to which I referred earlier, said 'the best contemporary' and the Minister for Transport has said 'a distinctive type of railway line'. What are we talking about? Are we talking about a light railway line, a light guideway or the conventional type of system which uses the best contemporary carriages and rolling stock? It seems to me that when one is proposing to put a railway line through a densely populated area one should take into consideration that one is going to run into a great many problems in relation to land acquisition and will find many individual owners contesting the authority of such a proposal. If it is to be a conventional track involving the use of contemporary rolling stock of the best type it will mean that there will have to be a far greater amount of land acquisition than otherwise would be the case if it were to be a light railway or a light guideway. I think that one problem that raises its head is: If it is to be a light railway, how will it integrate into the existing system? I would like to suggest to the Minister that a good part of the $3.5m to be appropriated in this respect be used to study this aspect properly so that we may come up with some answers before statements like those that have been made are in fact made. 
The need for feeder services once this railway line of whatever type it is to be is established is self obvious, self apparent. Proposing passengers would be able to travel wide distances on public transport and in private cars if there were adequate parking at stations and at places at which they may board these trains. I think that incorporated in this scheme provision must be made for park and ride services whereby people can pay the one fare which will give them access to parking and travel facilities. There could be just the one fare- a park and ride fare. Despite what we have had to say earlier on this matter the use of this railway facility will be most popular and will be welcomed by the people of that area. However, the roads must be developed in conjunction if the planning of the area about which we are talking is to go ahead as we would like to see it go ahead. 
Again I draw the Minister's attention to the need to integrate the systems of transport. I mention in particular the Old Windsor Road, which is a main road. I believe that it is not covered by the categories under which funds are allocated to the States. It is a category 7 road and there is no provision for the funding of that type of road, but its use in conjunction with a railway line would supply easy access in the most popular direction in which people wish to travel from the Toongabbie, Winston Hills and Baulkham Hills areas. I refer again to my earlier remarks that careful and comprehensive planning is needed when one is dealing with all sorts of transport. I noticed that the Minister is providing for the supply of a number of buses to different cities. I believe that he is to have a conference with the private operators. I draw his attention, in particular, to the need to provide an express service from Blacktown to Pennant Hills. That also is mentioned in the Nielsen report. 
I am not sure what parts of it are being adopted and whether there has been any discussion with the States on these matters. I must assume that passing reference would have been made before proposals of the type that we see the Minister espousing were put into operation. I notice that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, made reference a number of times to the co-operation between the State and Federal governments in this sphere. I do not know whether it is peculiar to Victoria, but in all the Minister's speeches on this matter and in all the things he has mentioned concerning the electorate of Mitchell in Sydney he has given no indication that he has discussed the matter with the States, that he is prepared to discuss it with the States or that he has settled on what sort of proposal he has for the railway system running north beyond Castle Hill. 
I rise to speak to this series of 3 Bills, namely, the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill, States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) and States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. These Bills deal with tertiary education. I must refer to comments made by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow).  He stated that we were providing certain things for the States. I refer him to  Sir Robert  Menzies, to whom the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is at the table, referred. When  Sir Robert  Menzies introduced the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill he stated: 
The Commonwealth has invited the States to put forward specific proposals under which the Commonwealth and the States will share the capital and recurrent costs of advanced education. 
I have searched the second reading speech of the Minister for Education on this matter in vain to find reference to co-operation with the States. I believe that in the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill there is no reference which indicates that the States will be considered in their former role and in the guidelines which were laid down by  Sir Robert  Menzies. In dealing in particular with colleges of advanced education I should like to refer to the definition that I found in the Library. It reads: 
The work of the technical colleges would be distinguished by being tertiary in standard, vocational in direction, and practical in orientation. It would normally be post matriculation, 3 years in duration, leading to the award of a diploma, with the possibility of extension for a fourth year to take the student to degree standard. 
It reads further. 
As well as colleges of advanced education providing a variety of courses, there are specialist colleges such as agricultural colleges, music and arts schools, and colleges of nursing, pharmacy, occupational therapy and physiotherapy. 
I wonder at times when visiting colleges of advanced education exactly where they are heading. I have a feeling, and I know the Minister must be aware of this- it is evident in some colleges- that the colleges are looking forward to promoting themselves to the standards of universities. In fact some of them have even tried to offer degrees to their diplomates 
Yes, in name it is called a degree; some of them will not call it a degree course. I think this is justified because these colleges were established as an intermediate type of educational body, although at a tertiary level, that would provide the community with technologists and specialists, not at the level of a university but at an intermediate level. 
I notice the Bill refers to the Nepean College of Advanced Education which is situated at present at Westmead. The campus there is now a split campus. The actual activity of the College takes place on the Westmead site, but there are proposals to bring into operation a site at Kingswood which is further west towards Penrith. I feel that this College which has been upgraded from a teachers college is typical of the way that colleges of advanced education have been formed. I think it is very sensible that such an institution can be upgraded in this way. I believe the move to Kingswood has been delayed for some time. The first steps took place somewhere in 1969. 1 suggest to the Minister- I hope is it possible for him to see his way clear to help- that the conditions at the Westmead site must be left behind as soon as possible. There has been much discontent at that site from time to time and in fact we have had some student action in past years owing to the slow upgrading of the Westmead site. Construction has been slow, conditions are difficult and the work is progressing very slowly indeed. However it is hoped that the extra accommodation on the Westmead site, provided by these funds, will rectify this condition. I suggest also to the Minister that work proceed as quickly as possible on the Kingswood site owing to the crowded conditions that will occur at Westmead. 
The students attending the college at Westmead are drawn mainly from Parramatta and related areas. Some of them will have to travel many miles to get to the Kingswood site. If this takes place it would seem that with the fall in activity at Westmead there will be scope in that area for the demand that is so obviously there for a college of an advanced type of education. Perhaps there might even be scope for a university. I know that a friend of mine- indeed, a very close friend of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  his father- has proposed a university at Baulkham Hills a number of times. This area serves quite a large population- something like a quarter of the city area. There will be no tertiary education at that level in the area when the college moves from Westmead. The average age of the community there is about 24 years of age. In fact, 48 per cent of people living in that area are under 24 years of age. 
It would seem that as children who are now at primary and secondary schools move on they will be travelling many miles each day to get to centres of tertiary education, whether they be colleges of advanced education or universities. The average population growth for that part of the world is about 1 1.4 per cent per annum. Over an area containing 300,000 to 500,000 people this is a massive increase. The demands for tertiary education in this area are moving very quickly and within the next 10 years- I suggest immediately- planning should start with a view to establishing a university in this area or at least a college of advanced education to replace the one that will be moving to Kingswood. 
I note that the Schedule attached to the Bill refers to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College which has been a very honoured college. I know that the staff and the people connected with this famous and historic college have welcomed the proposals and the expenditure that is at present taking place on that site. Many honourable members in this House from New South Walesparticularly Australian Country Party membershad the opportunity of attending the Hawkesbury Agricultural College. Now as a college of advanced education and moving towards the status of a corporate body but still under some control from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, the courses available at that college are broadening, and rightly so. This college is in fact the one that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  completely failed to recognise when he said at Richmond that there was no tertiary education anywhere in that area. 
The Hawkesbury Agricultural College is a very important and vital centre with a gifted and guided staff who have proposals- in fact the community requires that these proposals be implemented- for the expansion of the activities of the college. It is ideally sited. It is well served by rail and road. It is closely linked to the rapidly growing western suburbs of Sydney. The courses that the Opposition proposes should be instituted at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College are those connected with a city-country type of environment- those connected with surveying and valuing of land, those connected with the environmental sciences whereby people look at the influence of man on the environment and at the way in which the landscape is affected by the development taking place with the construction of houses. The problems of the fringes could well be dealt with at a college like the Hawkesbury Agricultural College. The environmental sciences could utilise a large part of the facilities already there, taking in such things as soil science and town and country planning, supplemented by things like environmental psychology. 
It seems that there is scope too for the sort of course that many of us hold dear, whereby people could learn a trade and learn to make a contribution in the work place, perhaps not at the level of the university but at a level of meeting and finding out from the common man, as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said, what is really happening in this country. I refer to courses such as truck driving. A young fellow, instead of just gaining his licence to drive a car and then going into a truck of huge capacity and weight, could be taught over a fairly short period the techniques of driving and loading large trucks and of maintaining these very expensive vehicles. I feel sure that the same thing would apply to machines like bulldozers and graders. There is no opportunity anywhere that I know of for people to learn these skills. In fact, I have been told by these young fellows themselves and by their employers that it is most difficult when they begin work using this heavy, expensive equipment. Damage is so easily done and I am sure that the demand for this sort of course- a short course, not a highly technical course but a skilled course- has great merit. 
I feel we should look at what sort of courses we are offering young people for the future. The types of courses that are available tend to become more and more specialist and in this way we are getting a race of people- we are breeding a race of students- who in some cases have a very narrow outlook into their specific area of learning. It would seem that the time has come for the pendulum to swing the other way whereby we can train generalists- people who are capable of looking at the all-over scene and are capable of assessing the broad situation- so that having made some sort of a judgment they can say to the specialists: 'There are the areas we think you should be looking at'. I feel that the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill has been badly drafted. I support the amendment. 
-In introducing this Bill, the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  has brought in a most important piece of legislation concerning conservation in the Territories. Perhaps it may be interpreted as conservation in the States. The benefits will flow to the nation as a whole and I think we will all agree that it is important to retain and protect our wildlife. The responsibility of this legislation is great indeed. There has been a ministerial awareness, I know, of the ramifications of this legislation. Preceding speakers have pointed out the implications this legislation in its present form may have on services that are set up throughout the States. 
I refer in particular to the fine and competent New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife Service. The history and record of this Service is very important. It is a most enlightened Service. It was established in 1967 and its activities encompass many matters, not just the confined area of national parks. It is responsible for areas such as national parks, State parks, historic sites, nature reserves and Aboriginal relics. I see no mention in the Bill of these other wider areas. Because my time is limited, I will list only briefly some of the achievements of the New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife Service. In the 7 years since this Service was established, the area under its control has doubled from something like 860,000 hectares to 1.7 million hectares. The length of coastline under the control of the Service has increased from 40 kilometres to 200 kilometres. This Service was set up entirely by the State of New South Wales. 
I mention to the Minister, without any feeling of competition, that it is his role to boost and to assist and to recognise the important part played by the New South Wales Service. It is a dreadful thought indeed that as the legislation stands, it would be within the powers of the Minister to take over an area such as the Kosciusko National Park. That would indeed be a crime. There is no relationship, as an earlier  speaker  tried to point out, between the United States of America and Australia in legislation relating to national parks. In the United States of America national parks services originated at the Federal level. In Australia fine services with great expertise and knowledge in this field have been established for many years. It seems as if the Minister wishes to do things in reverse, instead of co-ordinating and implementing the proposals that are already in train. There is a fear in my mind that if the wishes of the Minister prevail the activities of the true national service will be spread thinly. Instead of moving into areas that have a crying need we will be tending to look across the country and instead of undertaking the projects outlined by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  to assist the Northern Territory to undertake its programs, we will be spread so thinly as almost to be ineffective. We would probably be hit with a barrage of Press releases. I know it is not the Minister's character to operate in this way. I raise this point because I think it would be detrimental to the whole concept of national parks. Efficiency and planning are not often mentioned in government circles because the thing seems to be to get the job done. I shall quote from paragraph 2.7 of the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate. It states: 
Accordingly the 3 components of the cultural and natural environment forming the National Estate are those which are: 
of such outstanding world significance that they need to be conserved, managed and presented as part of the heritage of the world. 
of such outstanding national value that they need to be conserved, managed and presented as part of the heritage of the nation as a whole. 
of such aesthetic, historical, scientific, social, cultural, ecological or other special value to the nation or any part  of it  including a region or locality- 
It would appear that at the present time on our Federal scene we have 2 Ministers who would be the biggest sub-dividers of all time. It is their intention to sub-divide the National Estate. We have seen the responsibility for national parks lifted out of the National Estate context and moved into a completely different area, an area where it rightly lies. I would like to see Australia as a nation deal with such things as historic sites, which are important to our history and culture, under one head. The competition that will flow from the decision to sub-divide the National Estate is most concerning. It appears to me that the Minister and his Department have the right and the exact relevant instrument to deal with these areas. Why have we to break them up? 
Traditionally, historically, right across the world there can be no doubt that the national estate of any country includes things of national importance and beauty whether they be man made or natural. As we move into this phase I would like further consideration to be given to bringing the National Estate together. In conclusion may I quote these words from the book of a famous game warden, Romain Gary: 
It is absolutely essential that man should manage to preserve something other than what helps to make soles Tor his shoes or sewing machines, that he should leave a margin, a sanctuary, where some of life's beauty can take refuge and where he himself can feel safe from his own cleverness and folly. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Interpretation). 
I would like to raise with the Minister for the Environment and . Conservation  (Dr Cass)  sub-clause 5 of clause 1 1. 1 am concerned that provision can be made in relation to an area that is proposed to be added to the park or reserve. I know that this is incorporated in New South Wales legislation but it seems to me that this will put a cloud over neighbouring properties. Owners may suffer hardship if it is realised by the public at large that a plan of management and in fact an incorporation of that particular land may take place at a later date. If it is our intention, in some offhanded way, to raise the matter of a preserve surrounding a park, I do not think that the implication of a preserve is there. But I think the intention is that at a later date the park may extend in that particular direction. I feel there may be an obligation here on the Government should people be suffering hardship or involved in a situation where they may want to leave that area. The Government has surely some obligation to the owners of that land. 
Is the Treasurer fully aware of the great social hardship which his policy of unemployment has caused throughout the Australian community? Why did he betray the Australian worker- the man his party claims to stand for- by agreeing to slash protection and to conduct the worst credit squeeze in Australian history? What assurances can he give to the hundreds of thousands of men, women and young people living on the dole that their future is not in permanent jeopardy? 
-This Bill seeks to assist the operation of the Grants Commission and in so doing to make more efficient its application to the task of assisting local government. I was interested to note the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in regard to the way in which some local government bodies used last year's allocation when the figures were announced. I draw to his notice and the notice of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  what happened following local government elections in New South Wales. Many Labor members of local government bodies were upended and many independent candidates were elected in their place. Perhaps the way in which local government is run is one of the most undesirable features of that tier of government. Year to year assistance instead of some long term program and some growth factor should be looked at by the Minister when considering the task of the Grants Commission. 
It is most important that the Grants Commission be an efficient body and be able to cover the required ground. I note that the Minister in his second reading speech referred to the physical burden imposed on members of the Commission and the heavy workload and considerable travel in which they are involved. I can appreciate that this may be so when they have such a large number of local government bodies to interview and assess. Last year the Grants Commission began its interviewing and examination of local councils in January, but it was some time before the money flowed. The money finally reached local government bodies in December or the following January. There is no factor which allows for inflation and increased interest rates in this great lag of time. The new Bill, when it becomes an Act, will assist in this regard. The Grants Commission has been sitting for some time this year. I believe it began sitting in February and will make its findings shortly. Announcements as to allocations of funds will be made in perhaps July or a little later in the year. This is a lapse of 6 months- a period of time in which all costs can increase by 10 per cent and in which building costs can increase by almost double that amount. In fact we saw that occur last year, when local government bodies suddenly found that the amount of money they had budgeted for would not go as far as it should have. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when introducing the Grants Commission Bill 1973, stated:  the financial assistance to local governing bodies which will flow from the Commission's recommendations will in no way be a substitute for the revenues normally raised by them by long established methods such as rates and charges for services, nor will it replace assistance normally provided by State Governments to local governing bodies in one way or another. 
We have heard other honourable members quote this section of the Prime Minister's speech, but they failed to go on. The conclusion of that extract states: 
Rather, it will be in the nature of a 'topping-up' process of the financial resources of lesser endowed bodies to enable them, by reasonable revenue raising efforts on their part, to provide a standard of service to their communities that will be comparable with that enjoyed in communities elsewhere. 
The key words are 'by reasonable revenueraising efforts on their part'. The Grants Commission has almost assumed the role of a de facto rate setting body. I have known local government bodies which, in order to pander to the Grants Commission and gain assistance from it, have lifted their rates beyond a level which is necessary. This is a most unfortunate feature of the Grants Commission if it is to adopt a role of a pseudo rate setting organisation. 
I have to hand- no doubt many other honourable members have also received a copy- a letter from region 7, Avon, under the letterhead of the Shire of Northam. I shall read an extract from that letter which covers the area very adequately. It states: 
The present system has many failings- not the least of which is its failure to recognise efficiency and local self help -in fact these attributes appear to be discouraged. 
I believe that that is so. I believe that pressure is applied so heavily to local government bodies which are efficient, which adopt a practice of self help and which are thoughtful in their appreciation of the needs of the people of their electorate, that they feel they must lift their rates beyond a reasonable level. I will not go into detail because I know I am not permitted to divert from the Bill, but in my electorate a number of local government bodies have been caught in this bind. 
The appointment of an additional full time commissioner will be welcomed. It will assist in a speedy assessment of local government bodies in these times when wages, salaries and interest rates seem to be the key factors in their funding. These are the things on which they are standing or falling at the moment. The Grants Commission no doubt this year will hear a different story from the one it heard last year. I have attended many protest meetings organised by ratepayers who are most concerned about the structure of local government. From their point of view they are putting great pressure on their local government bodies. Headlines in Melbourne newspapers recently stated that the shire of Orbost had closed down. The reason for shires being in such dire financial straits is the cost structure of their operations. The Grants Commission can provide nothing but a topping-up process. What it provides cannot be offset against rates. 
The honourable member for Shortland spoke of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell's royal commission. If he had read with some concern and in some detail the findings of the royal commission he would know that they contain a suggestion that something like a poll tax be applied to assist local government. There are many difficulties in establishing a poll tax. The Federal Government assisting the activities of local government through the allocation of funds contributed by the taxpayer can almost be equated with the suggestion that a poll tax be imposed. It has been interesting to listen to the debate. All Parties accept that there should be assistance through the Federal Government, but it is the manner in which it is provided that matters. Local government bodies are unable to plan ahead. They ask: 'Where will we be next year. We know that our interest rates have gone up from 7 per cent to 1016 per cent'. Some of them are paying more than 10&amp; per cent. That is not an increase of 3 per cent; it is an increase of 33  W  per cent. Salaries also have risen by about 37 per cent this year. 
-In researching this Bill I applied myself first of all to the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  I shall pluck out two or three lines which I think the Minister at the table, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  would agree in some way epitomise the feeling of this proposal. The Minister for Services and Property said: 
The Government of the time was opposed, as is the present Government, to constituting special tribunals in the industrial field. However, there were very special circumstances to be dealt with. 
I think that members of this House and the public at large appreciate the special nature of the industry with which we are dealing. Apart from reading the Minister's second reading speech, I feel I should in some way take the House back and put into context the implications of that speech. I wish to go back some time and refer to times of strikes and chaos prior to 1968. There were court cases and appeals. On one occasion  Sir Leslie  Melville presided over a hearing for 84 days to settle a dispute. In 1967 under the now  Sir Leslie  Bury, a form of compromise was achieved. I suggest that in looking at this whole matter we look at what the then honourable Leslie Bury said at that stage, and see how effective the legislation which followed his speech has been when put into practice under present conditions. He said: 
We have tried in this Bill to make a constructive approach to the solution of these. For the future there will be effective machinery in producing sensible solutions where now at least as to pilots and navigators there is none. In the Qantas strike last year the public call was for arbitration. No machinery for arbitration was available; for the future there will be. I believe the Australian public has the conviction that cooperation and discussion should be the keynotes of the relationships between the airlines and their flight crews. I should trust that this conviction will not in future come under strain. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 -Mr Minister, I find no relevance between the second reading speech and that of  Sir Leslie  Bury because to my mind the measures are quite different. How has this situation worked out? During 8 years Qantas Airways Ltd has had two minor stop-work meetings lasting 4 to 6 hours. The domestic airlines have had 3 disputes, but none of them was a major one. The most major dispute was increased to double the length of time that it should have lasted because of the interference by the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I believe, if I do not misquote the Minister for Labor and Immigration, that he called the finding of the tribunal chaired by  Mr Justice  Coldham a decision that was 'idiotic'. That is the extent of the influence of this Minister on industrial relations in the aircraft industry. But the same Minister, in the middle of last year when it was brought to his notice that the Builders Labourers Federation was frightening people out of the High Court, took no action. It seems, as my honourable friend said earlier, that he is prepared at any time to use strong arm tactics against people whom he knows he can put down. He speaks out when there is no reason to speak out. 
Yes, this is the conflict which the Minister has. He has great difficulty in being even-handed. He does not realise that what one does for one group one should do for another. This is the theme of the Government's legislation, but the Minister does not look at the background; he does not look at the success of the Tribunal. The history of the Tribunal shows that it has worked.  Mr Minister,  this is what your portfolio is all about. It is about industrial relations, keeping people at work, keeping them serving the public; doing their jobs and happy to do their jobs. The history of the industry has proved this, but the BLF is another matter. The Minister does not interfere with it, he lets it have its own way and lets it do as it wishes in contempt of the High Court. 
-I wish to pursue briefly the comments made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and to refer also to the reply given by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I feel that there is a possibility of a bureaucracy being built into this type of program if proper consultation with the States does not take place. Tying the provisions of this legislation to section 96 of the 
Constitution will ensure proper consultation. I fear that there may be a possibility of the catalyst making a recommendation to a commissioner, despite what comes from the advisory boards, and then that commissioner carrying on those views with perhaps personal views to the commission, and funding taking place without any proper consideration of the priorities set by the State or indeed by people involved in child care. Within the Bill, I see no provision for specific qualifications for commissioners. 
The Federation of Child Care Association members who provide 80 per cent of child care in Australia at the moment, as I understand it, have not been consulted. The members of these associations are people with experience. Surely they should be playing some part in the assessing of priorities and assessing of funding. Also, the area of training enters into State control. I feel that, if it is the Government's proposal to adopt a program such as this and to go on to television advertising of this program, seeking support for it from the community, one area that has been gravely misjudged and overlooked is the provision of trained personnel. Perhaps if this proposal was to be tied to section 96, State facilities, State training centres and other facilities already existing in the community would be more readily accessible for use under this program. 
-Briefly, in reply, I would refer the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  to the findings of the Priorities Review Staff which indicated quite forcefully that it considered it inadvisable for the Government to honour its commitment to provide $34m. The Priorities Review Staff felt that a figure less than $20m would suffice in this financial year. In fact, the PRS said: 
This means additional momentum to a program which is not consistent with the stated objectives and priorities of the Government is undersirable 
Under these present provisions, New South Wales alone is to receive $22m. Surely the Government must be concerned, as I am, to see that these funds are not wasted, do not go astray and are properly used. 
Yes, they are drawn as they are spent. But the sum of $22m has been granted. I am suggesting to the Minister that, unless careful rein is kept on this program, the bureaucratic system will take over and the basic needs and considerations of the people concerned will be overlooked. We will bury this program in bricks and mortar scattered throughout the country, and the basic needs of the people will not be considered. It is easy to spend money if it is put into bricks and mortar. I am talking about involving the States in training programs of a scale that will meet the needs. 
I rise to speak to the motion for the adjournment of the House to indicate my concern and the Opposition's concern that the Government is setting out to destroy yet another primary industry. The principles that were applied by the Industries Assistance Commission to the brandy and cherry industries have now been applied to the mushroom industry. I am sure that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who was involved in those 2 industries, will share my concern when I say that a lack of understanding has been shown by the IAC for the principles involved in small industries, which have once again been ignored. The Government has decided to follow the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that the industry should do what it best can, without caring to examine the exact consequences of the recommendations made by the IAC. The report brought down on 10 December states: 
The Commission foresees no major impact on the mushroom growing industry as a result of its recommendations. There will probably be a minor expansion of the market for fresh mushrooms for processing as a result of the imposition  of duties on dehydrated mushrooms, but the effects of this will be slight in comparison with the expected continued natural growth of the market for flats for incorporation in a sliced in butter sauce pack. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that despite these comments by the IAC the position is that since the production of this report imports have doubled. The current level of" imports of mushrooms of all forms is running at the level of the current Australian production. This has occurred during the last 2 years. The Australian industry applied to the Temporary Assistance Authority for protection. It was refused this protection. In its case before the Temporary Assistance Authority the industry stated its efficiency, its economic production and the difficulties that it faces following the 25 per cent reduction in tariffs and revaluation measures by this Government. 
What will happen to this industry? The report mentions that about 700 people are employed in the industry, and 400 of those people are in the electorate of Mitchell. The Government is putting 400 people out of work. No consideration has been shown for the individual whatsoever. This academic approach of the IAC has been applied right across the board to many industries. I condemn it. There is no practical assessment of the industry. There is no assessment of what other countries which are producing the same sort of product may do. What about tariff barriers in other countries. What about the provision to prevent export of Australian products? The academic exercise is conducted purely on the Australian scene. The decision is made by the IAC and that is the end of another industry; and in my electorate another 400 people are out of work. Do not worry about it, the Government Will certainly not benefit directly from such a decision because those 400 people and others like them will ensure that this Government Will not be the Government following the next election. Actions of this sort- these off-the-cuff decisions and the buck passing- cannot continue. A decision is too difficult, so the Government kicks the matter to the IAC. The Government refuses to make a decision. It intends to refer the whole wool industry, I believe to the IAC. The matter is too difficult to handle- kick it to the IAC; bury it there; pass the buck. Anything that is too difficult, give it to the IAC. It is a great way of making decisions. 
In the case of the mushroom industry it is particularly interesting to note that there were 2 Commissioners. The second Commissioner, Associate Commissioner Cossar, presented a very strong and compelling case for better protection, strengthened protection, for the mushroom industry. The Government chose to ignore and to override completely the excellent report of  Mr Cossar  in this case. Half the report contains  Mr Cossar's  views. The report states: 

 Mr Cossar expects further deterioration in the current year. The total employment in the production of mushrooms is 700 and approximately 400 of these employees are concentrated in the Baulkham Hills- Windsor area of New South Wales . . .  Mr Cossar  considers that the main threat to the progress of the Australian mushroom growing industry is the greatly increasing imports of canned mushrooms in the brine which have increased from 890 kl in 1970-71 to 2,494 kl in 1973-74 and that the small increase in assistance recommended in the report will do little, if anything, to arrest this rate of increase. The ad valorem equivalent of the specific duty is at present approximately 17 per cent but was slightly higher until the devaluation of the Australian dollar in September 1974. 
I have made constant representations to the Government on this matter. I made representations in June and October last year and in March, April and May this year. I sent telegrams and wrote letters to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam),  the Special Minister of State, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland),  the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean).  None of those Ministers has seen fit to assist a vital Australian industry. I think it is incredible. Imports have increased. Despite the statement in the report, production is falling. The Australian producer is going to the wall.  Mr Lawson  of Lilyvale Mushrooms said today that the cutback by the PMU organisation in his intake represents roughly half of the company's production. They are having to put increased quantities of fresh mushrooms on the market because of this reduction. Over the past 2 to 3 weeks fresh mushrooms have been sold at a loss. 
-My word. We will see glut conditions and the finish of the industry. The Opposition has shown a real understanding of the position, which is quite different from the academic approach of the Minister and the economists in the IAC.  Mr Lawson  also said that canned mushrooms are also produced at 5 per cent below cost. In addition he advised that he had suggested that the mushroom industry be researched. I disagree with him in that regard. It has been researched and researched. What has happened over the last 12 months following the TAA report, following the reference to the IAC and following the procrastination of the Government? Importers have filled warehouses with mushrooms. The figures speak for themselves. 
The figures for imports are running at the same level as those for total Australian production. This indicates that the importers were aware of the situation. They, used this hiatus when the Government refused to look at the industry and make a decision to stock their warehouses. It appears to me that the whole of primary industry faces a very serious future. The mushroom industry is the first industry considered under the present IAC conditions. Other industries will be considered in the same offhanded way. The citrus industry, the vegetable producing industryin fact every industry that has been referred to the IAC- will be considered in this offhanded way. They will be the subject of an academic approach, not a practical approach, and the primary industries of this country will be put to the wall by the Government's inability to make decisions. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Science. Why should not the Government's advertising be subject to an advertising code? Will the Minister draw up such a code in co-operation with the Attorney-General, or is he prepared to make such advertising subject to the Trade Practices Act as this legislation covers all other advertisers? 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  commented on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I suppose that in the context of this Bill his comments were relevant. He stressed the efficiency of such an organisation and the goodwill that it will engender among people when they go along to the post office or wherever it is to fill in their personal insurance claims and other documents. I suggest that the Minister look at the Regional Employment Development scheme, the National Employment and Training scheme or even the defence service homes scheme for socalled efficiency. Let him look at some of the delays and the ineffectiveness of those Government instrumentalities 
The Minister said that the last decade had seen a very effective operation by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation; The scheme under which it operates goes back somewhat further than that. It was commenced in 1945 by the Commonwealth Government. It was established by a Bill dealing with housing loans. A private corporationMortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation of Australia Limited- also commenced operations in 1945. In 1972 a second private insurer, Australian Mortgage Insurance Corporation Limited, also commenced operations. In addition a number of State governments offered indemnities against loss in respect of terminating building and housing societies for loans which exceeded a certain percentage of the value of the home or home unit. Housing loan insurance was introduced by the Commonwealth to assist people to obtain the finance they needed to supplement their own savings to buy or build a home. 
Yes, it was all the good work of a Liberal-Country Party Government. It is now shot to pieces. I will go back through some of the Minister's Press releases. I find them most intriguing and interesting. On 1 9 August 1 974 he made a release to all Press which stated: 
In the 2 years prior to the present Government taking office the amount of finance for home purchase almost trebled. Although at first sight this might appear desirable the fact is that it caused highly dangerous inflation in the home market. 
Will they? The Minister told industry people in my presence that we needed to cut away some of the fat from the industry. The industry is now a walking skeleton. We have cut the fat to the bone. Industry representatives warned the Minister in July last year what would occur. He said: 'But I have to deal with the Treasury. I find the Treasury a problem'. The Treasury is a problem because it fans to recognise the job the Minister is trying to do, but it is unconvincing to the people when the Minister says to the Parliament that the housing industry is fine. It certainly is not fine. I would like to refer by way of example to further Press releases. One dated September 1974 states: 
While it is too early to give details, this will involve a continuous dialogue between the Government and the people, who are the ultimate test of the success of our policies. 
That was said when announcing the reorganisation of one of the organisations we have heard about- the POliCY Formulations Section of his Department. His final words are:   . . and the people, who are the ultimate test of the success of our policies. 
The people have been telling the Government and the Minister for more than 12 months that they cannot buy houses, that there is no way in which they can get hold of houses. Another Press release dated 28 November 1974 states: 
Figures released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed a 3 per cent increase in dwelling approvals and SO per cent increase in the volume of other buildings approved. 
The Minister refers to a 3 per cent increase- a significant increase! Look at what has happened since December. 
The Minister comes into this House time and again talking about approvals. Approvals in the building industry mean nothing. He knows as well as I do that people make arrangements to establish a dwelling, they arrange their borrowing and they try to service that borrowing. When they find they cannot they do not proceed with the approval. Many people wishing to establish a cottage with local government approval make a drawing of their dream home or have an architect draw it. They take the plans along to their local council, where the council employees look at them and stamp them and the fees are paid. The people have their block. They are ready to proceed if they can arrange a loan, which is extremely doubtful, because on the Minister's own figures, 88 per cent of people who apply for home loans earn less than $10,000 a year and under today's conditions are ineligible for a loan unless they come under the very good scheme incorporated in the Bill we are talking about tonight. 
The Minister talks about building approvals. Council stamps on plans do not mean a crumpet in the building industry. The Minister is using false figures. I ask him to talk to the brick manufacturers. At the moment in Sydney there are 150 000 million bricks on grass. Where are they going to? Where is the uplift in the home building industry? Where are the young people building their homes? How can they be building homes? Three brick manufacturers in Sydney have folded up over the last 6 months and the remainder are working at half capacity. They have laid off over 500 people in the last 6 months. Where is the upturn in the industry? Where are the orders coming from? Where are the homes being built? I can show the Minister many hundreds of blocks of serviced land that will not be sold or, if sold, will not be built on until there is a drastic reassessment of the whole of the housing industry by the present Government. A graph of building approvals in New South Wales shows a serious decline over almost 2 years from August 1973. There were peaks in late 1973 and early 1974, running down to a low in March of this year. The sale of bricks in New 
South Wales dropped from a peak of 64.3 million in February 1974 to the March figure of 47.3 million. At the moment there are 150 million bricks on grass. That is 6 months supply under normal conditions. 
You can go around the timber merchants and hear the same story. On 6 November last year the 'Australian' newspaper stated: 
It is said that a man earning $102 per week at the end of the 1 973 March quarter had sufficient finance to qualify for a $15,000 building society loan but that at today's soaring interest rates he would need a wage of $159.30 to obtain similar finance, even if the cost of the home building had not soared. It is now estimated that he will need a loan of $20,000 which, to pay back at 12 per cent over 25 years, he would need to earn $26 1 .30 per week. 
This is the 88 per cent about which I was talking. These are all the people who earn less than $10,000 a year. Let us look at interest rates. In March 1973 the rate was 7VS per cent, in July 8 per cent, and in October 9 per cent. In 1974 in April it was 9%, in June it was 1 1% per cent, and in November it was 1 2 per cent. There has been a drop of one-half of one per cent since then. That will mean nothing. 
Yes. The Minister mentioned a sum of $ 150m. It was a splendid but ineffective gesture. I would point out to the Minister that three-quarters of those funds went into existing homes. Only one-quarter was devoted to new homes. Of course these were homes being built basically by people earning more than $ 10,000 a year. 
Refinancing, yes. That compares with the position 12 months ago when onethird of bank approvals was going into new homes. So we have seen a drop from one-third to one-quarter in the percentage of total investment in housing going into new home building. Some of these additional figures are interesting. Building society loan approvals were 1.6 per cent higher in March this year than they were last year. Savings bank loans, due to the $150m, were 2.7 per cent higher in March this year as compared with last year. The cost of building materials has gone up by 22.5 per cent in 12 months. How are people going to build homes? How can the home building industry be improving? Dwelling approvals were 29.4 per cent lower in the March quarter this year as compared with last year. Dwelling commencements were 26.9 per cent lower this March than last March. 
Dwelling completions were 7. 1 per cent lower in the March quarter this year. How can the Minister come into this House and say that things are improving in the building industry? How can he say that young people are able to buy homeseither Government homes or their own financed homes? It is a mockery of this House and a mockery of the young people of this nation to say that things are getting better when the Minister knows perfectly well that they are getting worse. I suggest that he reads the figures. 
I do not know what the future holds for the young people of this nation under the present administration. The Treasury has been blamed; inflation has been blamed. Committees and organisations have been set up. They are wonderful concepts. I commend the Minister for these ideas because I think that they are valid and they are needed in the building industry. But how is the Minister to cope with the present problem? He was told about it 12 months ago. He said: 'It is yet too soon. I must wait another 3 months.' Twelve months have passed and nothing has happened. I fear for the young people of this nation. How are they going to build homes? We are a nation of home owners. People like to buy their blocks of land and build their homes. I forecast that we will see parcel deals in the future where people will select their houses on their blocks of land. That is the way the industry is moving. People like the estate, they like the plans being offered by the project builder and they accept the total deal. I think that this is an economic outlet for the whole industry. 
I think too that with proper initiatives a responsible government could make inroads into the costs of land- not by becoming involved in the business itself; there is no way that a government can handle sufficient land at sufficiently low price to be able to deal with the current situation and problems we face. A feasible way for a Government to deal with these problems is to prevent local government passing the buck down the line, to prevent State governments passing the buck down the Une, so that the young home buyer has to pay for the road in front of his property, for the kerbing and guttering, for the water pipes, for the electricity and sometimes the telephone cables. This is aU added on to the price and is a major factor in the purchase of land. Perhaps there is an initiative for a responsible government in this area. I am convinced that there is. The community should deal with these problems. The life of these buildings is about 20 to 30 years. The average turnover of home buyers runs on a pattern of 3 to 6 years. So we see in those buildings 3 or 4 families. The cost of those amenities should be spread across the families who live in that dwelling. 
I started to say how concerned I was for the future of young people buying their own properties, buying their own homes, trying to establish a family and trying to establish their dream homes. A lot of thought and heartburn goes into the arrangement of finance, and some ofthe first legal transactions of a person's life are involved in home buying. It is a time of difficulty, a time of trauma, for some people. I consider that the Government has failed to recognise this problem. It has shown complete ignorance of the facts of the industry. It has shown complete ignorance of a sensible way of dealing with the problems of this industry. I expect that the next Press release we will see from the Minister will be that the sales of indian ink have increased, therefore architects are drawing more plans, therefore the building industry is improving. That is what I would expect to see. 
Yes. I was corning to that. My honourable friend interjects that there are 70 000 homes short at this minute. I think it will be a good deal more than that by the end of the year. One tends to think of houses as individual homes. One talks about 100 000 homes. It is a great number of homes. But has the Minister thought of what needs to come first- of the types of services, of the type of land that has to be developed? Has he thought about 25 000 acres of serviced land around the major cities of this nation? I wonder whether the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  even in one of his wildest nightmares, has thought of trying to provide 25 000 acres of serviced land by Christmas next year for the potential home buyer. How is he going to do it? There has been a great lag in this type of development. The development companies and governments have tended to slow down in this area. There has been a complete stoppage for 2 years. When will things start again? No wonder the price of land Will soar. No wonder shortages Will continue. I have indicated that there are 150 million bricks on the grass in Sydney. There are many young people wanting to build their homes- 70 000 of them throughout the country. All that is standing between them and their bricks is this Government. 
I shall not take up much of the time of the House. I wish to state that in the circumstances I made all the investigations that I thought I could make. Both the State member and I were completely misled in these circumstances. I made the apology as I felt I was duty bound to do, and I have nothing further to add to the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the average time taken in each capital city in processing applications for Australian citizenship from first contact to the naturalisation ceremony? 
-The matter we are discussing this evening and to which we are giving our very earnest attention is the defence of this nation. It is not a matter of integration of the defence forces, which the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  seemed to raise as the main argument for this piece of legislation. I do not think that matter is under debate. I think the discussion is about how it is to be done, how it is to be operated and how it is to be effective, so that in times of peace we have vigilance on the part of our defence forces, we have training going on and we have equipment assembled ready for use and people competent to use it, and that in times of war we have great activity and protection for the nation. 
To assess this Bill we have too look at the circumstances under which it was drawn up and the circumstances of our country. The first is that the new organisation needs to be the best possible for peace but should be able to be adapted for war without undue delay. Out of 75 years of its history Australia, unfortunately, has been in combat for something like 26 years and has had forces overseas for 1 1 additional years- a total of 37 years out of 75. Under these circumstances it would hardly seem reasonable that the sole objective of this piece of legislation is to gear our defence forces for times of peace alone so that they will work smoothly in times of peace but when war comes, should it ever come again, there will be a big fiddle to find out what happens next. 
I think we should refer to the Bill and particularly to the clauses which seem to provoke dissent and discussion. I start with clause 8, which provides that the Minister shall have the general control and administration of the defence force. I bring to the attention of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  and of the House that under these circumstances it would appear that the role of the Governor-General is thrown into doubt. Whether or not the Governor-General is to remain the Commander-in-Chief of our defence forces has to be settled. We need to debate the constitutional issue. We need to find out how the chain of command is to operate. How is it to function, who has authority and to whom does he convey it? Who is responsible to that person exercising the command, and who is next in the line of command? There is nothing in the Bill, the second reading speech or the report to indicate how this should happen. Indeed there are no recommendations on the line of command anywhere in reference to these proposed changes. I refer the House to the evidence given to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence by Air Vice-Marshal Hartnell. He raised very succinctly for that Committee the role of the Governor-General in section 68 of the Constitution. He said: 
The Governor-General has a special role in the distribution of Defence authority. Under Section 68 of the Australian Constitution, and separately under Letters Patent, he is vested with command-in-chief of the Defence Force as the Queen's representative. He is not a nominal CommanderinChief. He is actually vested with command. 
These powers were given to the Governor-General himself and not to the Governor-General-in-Council. During the constitutional convention debates in Melbourne in 1898, an amendment was proposed that command-in-chief should only be exercised on the advice of the Executive Council. The amendment was lost. 
Yet in this Bill we have the first inkling, indeed the first reference, of authority, control and administration relating to the Minister. There is no reference to the Governor-General in any way. Under clause 9 the Governor-General may appoint the Chief of the Defence Force Staff. I think this matter has to be ironed out. As a nation we suffer in the defence field because there is no understanding of where supreme authority lies. It would appear from the legislation that it may very well he in the Chief of the Defence Force Staff provided there is action and activity, but in all other fields it is a most nebulous area. Does it rely on the Secretary of the Department of Defence? Has the Secretary supreme say in things like administration? There is a list of what the civilly controlled section of the organisation may be responsible for. It could include such things as strategic policy and the development of the forces. How in the name of goodness can it be responsible for the development of the forces if it does not come under the command of somebody? The list includes material for the 3 Services, defence industry policy, contracts and quality assurance, supply and movements of transport of all services. Suppose in circumstances of an emergency 't was necessary for us to deploy a force on our north-western coast and the civil section of this organisation decided: That is our decision and we will not provide the transport. ' I do not see how there is any rhyme or reason within the proposals of this initial section of the Bill. 
The only sensible way to deal with these issues is to grapple with them to find out where authority bes and who makes the decisions. Is it the Minister? Is it the Chief or is it the Secretary? The Minister obviously has powers. I think that this nation would like to see its representative being truly its representative and, in that role, the elected head of the defence Services. In times of peace when there is no need for great activity or build-up the Minister could convey the will of the nation to the defence Services in that way and not have somebody interposing his will or his ideas. I continue with the list and refer to Navy, Army and Air Force technical services, all Service facilities and accommodation, resources policy, planning and programming, budgeting and financial services, defence manpower, pay, recruitment, conditions of service, the personnel policy, training and education policy, organisation and management services, defence research, development and evaluation, and the Joint Intelligence Organisation. Now, there is a fine list. That is the responsibility of the civil part of the defence forces. One wonders what is left to the Chief of the Defence Force Staff. 
I think I should at this stage refer the House again to another Senate committee report on the Australian Army which stressed at page 86 the fact that there is no single line of authority. The Senate reported: 
At the present time these three streams come together at the ministerial level but it may be questioned whether this is an altogether satisfactory solution. The public service and military components of the Defence machine are closely interwoven but there is no single line of authority. The Departmental Secretary (currently responsible for advising the Minister on 'policy, resources and organisation') cannot issue instructions to the armed forces while the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, or the Chief of Defence Force Staff under the proposed re-organisation of the Defence Department, cannot command the public service component. 
Yet we have in the matter of appointments the Secretary and indeed the Minister having their say as to who should receive promotion above first star rank. I would like to see the Chief of the Defence Force Staff having a say in the promotions in the civil section of that service. Indeed, that seems fair and reasonable. Has this been settled? In the Tange Committee report section j indicates: 
The proposal is to establish a single supply and support organisation within the Department of Defence and to appoint a senior executive to be chosen from persons both within and outside the Australian Public Service to head that organisation. 
Is the Government going to grab people from everywhere? Perhaps some expertise in certain areas is warranted, but has it been written into the legislation. If it is not in it in detail it is there by innuendo. I would like to continue along the line of where authority lies. I have referred to Senate committee reports and the submission by Air Vice-Marshal Hartnell and Senate committee findings. If there is a need to look at the role of the Secretary I raise with the House clause 7 of the Bill which causes me some concern. In pan it reads: 9a. ( 1 ) Subject to section 8, the Secretary and the Chief of Defence Force Staff shall jointly have the administration of the Defence Force except with respect to- 
matters falling within the command of the Defence Force by the Chief of Defence Force Staff . . . 
What is command? Goodness gracious me, if one goes to the  Oxford  dictionary and all over the place one can find it, but it is not in the Bill. What does the Government mean by the word 'command'? What does it mean by the word administration'? Let us have it spelt out. Command, according to the  Oxford  dictionary, means to order with authority. It is distinct from leadership, which is to guide or show the way, with an emphasis on people. It is distinct from management, which is to handle, with an emphasis on resources. In the armed forces, leadership and management are no less important than in industry, but there is the further and particular need to order with authority, that is, to exercise command. Any defence force must have a command structure under which the various levels of authority have the ability to give lawful commands within their sphere of responsibility and to enforce obedience. 
I will quote again from the evidence of Air Vice-Marshal Hartnell. 
In the Australian Defence Force, the command structure operates efficiently outside Canberra. At the highest levels, however, there is no effective command structure. 
I am not saying this matter has been looked at by us as a nation, but what an opportunity to do so. Is the Government going to roll the whole thing over and get it through by 10.30 tonight? Is it saying that we should not refer it to any committee because that is going to waste time? After all, the Tange Committee had 41 hours, I believe, with the Chiefs of Staff. Surely to goodness they ought to be able to organise or re-organise the defences of this nation in a week into something that will carry this nation on for the next 50 years! I would hardly have thought so. Air ViceMarshal Hartnell went on to say: 
At the highest levels, however, there is no effective command structure. The requirement can be simply stated. It is for an orderly system, backed by appropriate legislation at each step, which permits the orderly transformation of parliamentary and Government policy into executive military action. There is, as yet, no such system in Australia. 
The Minister's speech in fact carries this somewhat further because the legislation does not spell it out in any great detail. The former Minister for Defence in introducing the legislation said: 
The Secretary, as Permanent Head/Chief Officer of the Department, Will have legal responsibilities under the Audit Act and Treasury regulations; will be the link with the Government administration at large, and will be the adviser on policy, on organisation and on financial planning and programming. 
He controls it. We are not talking about personalities. We are trying to assess the value of this legislation. In these circumstances the Secretary epitomises to me the Public Service section of the Defence forces. We have to strike a balance so that these men can work side by side. The Tange report talks about two-hatted gentlemen. I find that two-hatted gentlemen often become yes men. They play both sides and they cannot decide where they really belong. Let us decide who has command both in the civil section and in the forces section. I think that in these circumstances the role of the civil servants, epitomised as I said by the role of the Secretary, must be decided on. Are they to have the power of veto? Are they to work alongside Defence personnel? Are they to supplement and to allow the machinery to run smoothly? I do not know. I cannot find anything in the Bill which indicates that the Minister, the Government or the draftsman of this legislation have given it any thought or any detailed consideration. I come back again to the fact that the Minister is the link between society -our community, the people of Australia- and the defence forces. It is up to the Minister. We will hear the Minister. I think that we will be enlightened. I hope that we will be enlightened. I hope that he will refer the matter to a committee for examination. I would be pleased to hear his words of wisdom and experience in regard to command and administration. 
I refer to the American Joint Chiefs of Staff and to their arrangements and responsibilities because it would seem that we could learn from other systems and from what other countries are doing. I understand that there are countries in our area, indeed close friends, which have opted for different systems of command and administration from the one we have selected. An article which I have asks: 
What does a Joint Staff do besides staff the joint? To find out, we must first ascertain what it is that their bosses, the  JCS,  do- or ought to be doing. The Joint Chiefs of Staff are the principal military advisors to the  President,  the National Security Council, and the Secretary of Defense. 
I take the word 'Secretary' to mean the Minister. 
It is frightening. I only hope that we have some sort of national security council or watchdog. The article continues: 
After first informing the Secretary of Defense, a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may make such recommendations to Congress relating to the Department of Defense as he may consider appropriate. 
Subject to the authority and direction ... the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall- 
prepare strategic plans and provide for the strategic direction of the armed forces; 
prepare joint logistic plans and assign logistic responsibilities to the armed forces in accordance with those plans; 
establish unified commands in strategic areas; 
review the major material and personnel requirements of the armed forces in accordance with strategic and logistic plans; 
) formulate policies for the joint training of the armed forces. 
I cannot see anything in our proposed legislation that shows as much foresight and as much thought. Indeed I would press upon the Minister the need for a defence council which would incorporate all the Chiefs of Staff, the Minister and the Secretary so that there would be proper consideration of these matters, so that there would be proper policy and financial control and so that there would be organisation, policy development and proper programming. Let us have in time of peace a defence force where there is not competition, where there is not diversity of purpose but where there is a single goal, one that is aiming for something that can be achieved in time of war- security for this nation. 
-The Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  expressed the difficulty a Minister has in his position as administrator and as the person responsible for the general control of a department. He expressed the difficulty in allocation of responsibilities- I think those were his exact words. He then pointed out the problem of command flowing from the Governor-General. I suggest that in this context it is not the Minister's responsibility but may well be that of the Executive Council or the Cabinet rather than the Minister as to who will command. I do not think the Minister meant to imply that but his words sounded very much as if he were implying that. 
I raise again this matter of command and the difference between command and administration. There is constant reference throughout clause 7 to command. It provides that the Chief of Defence Force Staff shall command the defence force. It mentions 'command by the Chief. Throughout this clause, the word 'command' is used. I think my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  referred to the definition of command used by the Minister last night. He drew attention to the responsibility for effectively using resources and for planning the employment of, or organising, directing, coordinating and, controlling, military forces in the accomplishment of assigned duties. That also includes the responsibility for welfare, morale, discipline and personnel under his control. 

 Dr Millar has been mentioned a number of times in this debate. I refer to him in this instance although I have not done so previously.  Dr Millar,  in his article of 9 July, sets out the responsibilities as he sees them and indeed as we see them, of the civil section. They cover the whole area that the Minister defined last night. They cover things like defence manpower, pay, recruitment, conditions of service, personnel policy, and training and education policy. If they do not fit within the definition of 'command' as the Minister gave it last night, I do not know what does. In fact, we have further evidence which would tend to support the proposition that there is great difficulty in deciding where the distinction lies. The former Minister, when introducing the Bill- and again I refer to it- said: 
The Secretary . . . will be the adviser on policy, on organisation and on financial planning and programming. 
There is great conflict in the Government's mind; I am sure of that. It would seem that if the matter is to be cleared it is not for the Minister to say to us in Opposition: 'Why don't you go along and talk to the Secretary of the Department or the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and find out what they have in mind?' This is the Parliament. Here is where decisions are made. Here we have the right and the responsibility to find out the 
Government's intentions. What are the directives? Again I request the Minister. What are the directives you are going to issue for the operation of the defence forces? I think that we as a Parliament need to know and the people of Australia need to know. 
One other matter is of great concern to me. It relates to the whole Bill but particularly to this clause. It is the Government's power to cause actions on the part of its servants without any regulatory or legislative basis. We were told last night, and indeed it is in the documents, that the reorganisation of the defence forces has been going on for something like 2 years. What was the basis, what was the power that the Government had to carry out those actions? I equate it with things like the regional employment development scheme, the Australian Police and the various interim commissions which were established when the Government had no directive or power from the Parliament to carry out those actions. It is government by stealth. I feel that in defence reorganisation the Government has done the same as it has done in other areas. 
We could easily refuse this Bill, I suppose. That would tend to be irresponsible. But if the Government is going to treat the Parliament and the people of the nation as it has and to opt for government by stealth I think that sort of action deserves reciprocal action. It is time that the Government went back to a democracy and allowed proper consideration of these measures. The only way under this Bill and particularly under clause 7, which we are considering, that we can understand the Government's intention and allay the ever-present fears that are welling up within the defence forces themselves as to how much say the Public Service is going to have over their actions it is for the Minister to tell us what his directives are, how the thing is going to work. What is the translation of the Bill? What is the relationship between civil and military men? I think the Minister owes a great deal to the Parliament and the people of the nation right now during this debate to tell us his intentions. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 111- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 1 12 (Interpretation). 
-My comments also will be brief. I think that this right of investigation allowed to servicemen is a step forward. I think the name 'ombudsman' is a misnomer. I do not consider that an ombudsman is responsible to anybody other than the Parliament, and in that respect I think in it is the wrong term to use in view of the role to be played by the Defence Force Ombudsman. However, I think that the activities of the Ombudsman will be beneficial to many people within the Services. I have one small reservation in relation to clause 5( 1 ) which mentions investigating the matter of administration. Here again we come to the problem of command and administration. Until we have some clearing up of these definitions we are going to be in trouble. If in this case 'administration' is to apply to troops or men in the field and is to refer to matters of discipline or morale I find it most concerning. I trust that this will not be the case, but I sincerely press the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  to give us the reassurance we need in regard to that clause. I commend the legislation in concept although I disagree with the term used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the names of Chilean refugees who entered Australia during the last 12 months. 
-These Bills establish the funding and methods of funding for the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. The function of the Corporation is to oversee the export of apples and pears from Australia. It has a further function that applies within the country- the rationalisation by cooperation between the States in the marketing of apple and pear crops so that a balance can be struck and so that perhaps the Tasmanian crop can be marketed in a regular pattern on the Aus.tralian mainland if the export market is not up to expectations. It could also apply itself to the problems of the times of marketing different varieties of apples, particularly the marketing of the Queensland crop on the southern markets. The Bills supply the funds for the Corporation, and the basis of that funding is incorporated in the Apple and Pear Levy BUI. As expressed in the Bill, the proposals are that the levy shall not exceed $3 for every one-tenth of leviable land or $30 per hectare. The ability to collect those funds is provided for in the Bill. The minimum area to which this Bill will apply is an area of land not less than one-tenth of a hectare or an area on which there are not more than 25 productive trees. 
The second Bill- the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill- contains a remission clause which allows growers, in circumstances prescribed in the Bill, to apply to the Minister in writing for a grant of remission under the section and by reason of circumstance, whether it be by hail, poor season, unmarketable crops or low production per hectare- as in the case perhaps of Queensland or Tasmania- to request the Minister to consider a special case for them. I trust that in the funding of the Corporation and its establishment- because it is a fact- we will not see the growth of a bureacracy. The Corporation has the capacity to collect in this first year and from the funding, if applied at a moderate level, something like $lm. All growers of apples and pears in this country would strongly resist the Corporation if it proved to be a bureaucracy- if it proved to be a body standing over them, making decisions for them in which they had.no say and in which there were no visible results. 
I would like to suggest to those members of the Corporation who have a concern for these hard pressed industries that they be on their mettle that they delve deeply into the possibilities of establishing and holding export markets, that they be concerned for the orderly marketing of the Australian crop within this country and that they do not establish themselves in the eyes of the average apple or pear grower as a bureaucracy. There is much that they can do. I would resist strongly their being over funded in such a way that the staff would build up and that flamboyant schemes would be instigated which would yield Utile result. Part of the record of the marketing of Australian primary industry is such that it is either totally disorderly or organised to such a fine degree and in such great detail that the benefits shown by the application of funds from growers are negligible. I trust that the Apple and Pear Corporation Will show within a very short time a yield far in excess of the levies collected and that those benefits in each and every year Will be positively demonstrable. 
The capacity of growers to pay the levies as outlined if they were to be levied at a maximum capacity could be questioned. The Henderson report certainly indicates that many growers in this area are under great stress. I suggest to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in this regard that he should not throw the levy completely at the industry and at the people involved. Here is an effort by the industry to establish something which it feels can be of benefit to it. It would be most unfortunate indeed if the establishment of that body were to bring about the ruin of the industry. Growers in Queensland find themselves at a disadvantage by coming into this program, but by goodwill and with a sense of unity and co-operation they Will come in. I am told that they will come in, that they will co-operate and endeavour to make the scheme work. The situation in Tasmania must be the despair of every honourable member who represents Tasmanians. The breaking down and the loss of export markets and the change in varietal preference for Tasmanian apples have meant that growers are facing very great difficulties in that State. I trust that the Corporation will consider this particular case in detail and with sympathy. 
There are a number of industries of this type within Australia. Some have schemes that they have produced themselves and which have been adopted. Others have no schemes and in some cases there is great disorder within the market, but not through the fault of the people involved in that industry. In 1975 Australia must have a tremendous number of confused and bewildered people. I must say that I have a number of such people in my electorate. A very important reason for this sad state of affairs is that in the region which I represent efficient industries have been developed which supply vital foods to Australian people. These industries are not controlled by the suspect multi-national corporations. They are owned and operated by dedicated, hardworking Australians who believe that they have products which the Australian people really want. They also believe that by hard work and intelligent investment they should receive just reward for their work. I bring to the notice of the House the particular circumstances of the apple industry and of the citrus industry, which are fighting for their lives and also the problems not only of the mushroom industry, the vegetable industry and the potato industry but also, outside the horticultural field but Still within primary industry, the fishing industry. All of these are small industries. It is up to the Government to show that it does understand them and not to push their needs to one side. If it decides to rationalise or to phase out these industries, it must make sufficient provision and proper plans for the people involved in them. 
-The specific area to which I wish to refer in this estimates debate is the Department of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  his Cabinet and the attached Department perhaps are the very core of government administration. In this area, government policies, attitudes and alternatives are considered and assessed. In fact, one could almost say that the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet is the repository of the pipelines of state which lead to the departments. It is the very centre of Government activity. This is the area to which legislation comes for checking. It is the area too from which the directives proceed to the various Ministers and departments of state. Collected within the Cabinet are the various heads of the great departments of state. 
These members of the Cabinet and, indeed, the Prime Minister himself are members of this Parliament. The Parliament comprises, as I understand it, the Queen, the House of Representatives and the Senate. They possess a legislative authority, an authority that they may delegate to carry out their actions, provided that there are some pre-existing circumstances. However every power, every executive, judicial or legislative act, and the basis for such power and such actions are to be derived from the Constitution. It is not just a law. It is a basic and fundamental law. It has been called an organic fundamental law, established in the past by a process of evolution of law and the nature of our history and the circumstance of our country. 
The Constitution establishes the boundaries of power for the Parliament. The British have not based their Constitution in a written form. "We differ in that we do. We have a written Constitution, which is this fundamental organic law. Our Constitution provides that the Parliament shall have power for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth. Above the members of Parliament and the Cabinet is the Executive which cannot- and this is where it differs from the position of a monarch of old times- take action by decree. I would like to examine some of the actions of our present Government and to compare them with their basis of power and their role as fitting within the context of a constitutional monarchy and the parliamentary democracy that we have. 
Has the Cabinet, has the Prime Minister, the power to decree? Certainly not. That is not the type or the style of government to which we are accustomed, and there is no legal basis for it. But I feel that in many areas this Government has acted by decree. It says that it has a mandate. It decrees. It carries on under those circumstances until the Parliament says yes or no, or says that it agrees with the Government's decree. I think that these are most serious circumstances for the operation of a democracy. This transgression of the traditional democratic process has taken place in many areas. 
The Government decrees the Australian Assistance Plan. I am not going to deal with the value of each of the Government's programs, many of which are good and well intentioned. I do contest the Government's modus operandi. I do contest the way in which the Government has brought these programs into being and the way that the Government has put them by decree, almost as a monarch would, on the people of Australia. What are the decrees? Let us have a look at some of them. Let us look first at the Health Insurance Commission. I can tell you,  Mr Chairman,  that finding the exact circumstances as to the way these programs were implemented has taken hours of work. It has meant chasing back through Government  Gazettes.  There are no Acts, no legislative bases, for many of these programs. It has meant chasing Press reports. Here is the chronology of events with respect to the Health Insurance Commission. On 27 June 1973 an Interim Executive of the Australian Health Insurance Commission was appointed by the then Minister for Social Security. The  chairman  was  Dr Scotton.  That Commission which was a commission but had an Interim Executive carried through and operated for over 12 months until 7 August 1974 when, at the Joint Sitting, it became legal. For a full 12 months we had public servants and a department operating without any legal basis. To me, that is government by decree. Let us look at the Social Welfare Commission. 
-With respect,  Mr Chairman,  I would like to use these examples briefly, as you have directed, but it is essential to the argument that they be used. 
-On 18 February 1973 the proposed establishment of the Social Welfare Commission was announced by the then Minister for Social Security. The chronology of this body runs through to 22 November 1973 when the relevant legislation passed the second and third reading stages without amendment. In the process, the Australian Assistance Plan was established. Another example is the Australia Police. On 20 February 1975 the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  tabled the Carmody report in the House of Representatives. On 5 April 1975, the Adelaide  Advertiser  reported: 
The Australia Police came into force by Executive Decree of the Governor-General in the Executive Council meeting, when the Governor-General approved administrative changes to re-form the Department of Customs and Excise into two Branches- the Australia Police and the Bureau of Customs. 
He re-formed the Department. He did not establish a police force. We move to 22 May 1975 when the Attorney-General announced that he had referred the matter of the most appropriate legislative means of safeguarding individuals' rights and liberties in relation to the Australia Police to the Australian Law Reform Commission. There was not even a legal basis for the Australia Police. 
We have spoken tonight of the Regional Employment Development scheme. I am not questioning the worth of the RED scheme. That is not an issue under debate in this context. I mention also the Purchasing Commission. What has happened to the Purchasing Commission? Is it still going on? 
My word it is, and there is no legal basis for it. 
-That makes it worse. What about the Australian Legal Aid Office? I mention also the national parks and wildlife legislation which has been passed on the basis of some sort of foreign affairs power. To me, that may be on a legal basis. What is the story when we look at a democracy? Recently the Attorney-General speaking at the Constitutional Convention said that the Government is forced to break the law. From the Attorney-General at the Constitutional Convention comes the statement that the Government is forced to break the law. One newspaper reported: 
Without going into details of the digressions,  Mr Enderby  admitted that it ' was not honest, the way we have to go about effecting social change'. 
It is not honest, the Attorney-General said. I invite members of the Committee to turn to Jefferson or to any of the greats of democracy as we know it. Jefferson said that the whole of government consists of being honest. Where is the honesty in government by decree? Government is not a matter of decree; democracy is not a matter of decree. If the Government wants its program the people of Australia will agree provided the legal process is observed and the democratic process is carried out. As Burke said, the moment you abate anything from the full rights of men each to govern himself and suffer any artificial positive limitation upon those rights, from that moment the whole organisation of government becomes a consideration of convenience. This Government is a consideration of convenience and it operates as such. 
-In discussing the estimates for the Department or Urban and Regional Development I would like firstly to consider a few of the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  When referring to the disbandment by the Opposition of the Department of Urban and Regional Development the honourable member failed to recognise that the Opposition has the same concern for problems of urban areas and regions. We choose to do things in a different way. We choose to administer the Department in a different way. When one looks at the contents of Budget Paper No. 9 one sees the vast area of activity covered by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I will read some of the headings: Urban expansion and redevelopment, urban services, transport in urban areas, housing, the urban and regional environment, community and regional services, and the location of Australian Government activities. That huge area is covered by the monolithic Department. It deals with many different facets of human activity and endeavour. 
I fail to see how such a giant organisation can deal effectively with the matters with which it claims it can deal. It is not possible to administer a department of that size, which covers such diverse areas, in an efficient or effective manner. The Opposition feels that some of the objectives and areas dealt with by the Department are important and should be looked at nationally. Under the circumstances it would be far better if the people in the areas involved, the people concerned about their way of life and their future way of life, were closely involved in decision making. The decision making should somehow be connected to electoral representation, preferably at local government or State government level. The objectives of the Department are good but we disagree with the administration and the way of achieving them. I have mentioned the wide extent and rapid growth of the Department. 
I turn now to the areas that come within the Minister's portfolio. He took on the urban transport area first, then housing, then the national heritage- that was another one along the way- and finally Australian Government activities connected with buildings and services. I give full credit to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I consider that in his  modus operandi  he has been most successful. But I would suggest to him in a friendly way that this may not be a good thing. Whether he is the most competent Minister to deal with these areas is a question for the Government. But I feel that overall it is too big and too diverse an area for him to administer really effectively. Recently I read with interest his comments on housing. I think that he may be more perceptive than the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  who does not seem to understand the great difficulties facing people trying to build homes. 
However, I pass to a practical demonstration of regionalism in the style in which I would like to see it applying right across the country. About 12 months ago I raised in this chamber with the Minister the problems of the Parramatta River and the likely flooding of the city of Parramatta. I drew to the Minister's attention the fact that the tributaries of this river were building up quickly because the urban land was being sealed for roadways and houses, increasing the water height in the city of Parramatta. At that time I wrote to the Minister. I raised the matter in the House. I also wrote to the New South Wales Premier and sought the active assistance of the Parramatta Council, as did my friend the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  As things worked out, this is a classic example of regionalism working properly. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development said: 'Yes, that seems fine. I will think about it'. The Premier of New South Wales offered men but not finance. He offered men from the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission and men from the Department of Public Works. Of course local government was seriously affected and wished to become involved. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development then said: 'I would like to appoint the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to conduct the survey and I will give to that area, by way of an area improvement grant, $5,000 for that survey to be carried out'. The survey has been completed. I wish to thank the Minister's staff for letting me have a copy of it to peruse. 
Now comes the important stage of a detailed study of this area. The people who will have to be involved are 3 local government bodies, the State Government and the Federal Government. This is regionalism in its true sense. It is not a matter of forcing artificial areas around local government and saying: 'Ten of you will get together. Those will be the boundaries because they are easy to administer that way. ' We see a particular circumstance for a particular problem. I think that that is excellent and that is the way that the concept of regionalism must work. I am unconvinced about the artificial boundaries. I can see the advantages of administration. I can see also the disadvantages of having a fourth tier of unelected government. I can see many disadvantages, but local governments traditionally have tended to get together and I think that this should be encouraged. It must be on their terms, not on our terms in Canberra. If they have a problem and if it is recognised by them, by the State government and by the national Government, the 3 levels of government should get together to solve the problem. Where is the expertise coming from? Where are the funds coming from? How will we solve that problem? 
I also bring to the Minister's notice the fact that flexibility is what is needed in this area. I think that the example which I have used is a fine one. I think that the Minister's understanding of the need for a multi-regional approach in this case is a fine one, if we can have a team of management from the 3 levels dealing with a detailed survey so that conclusions are arrived at in a sensible, constructive way, using the skills and expertise available. I would like the Minister to comment on the fact that in Budget Paper No. 9 the total amount of area improvement assistance is shown as $ 17.5m but in the Treasurer's Budget Speech it is given as $ 14.5m. 
I will take the Minister's estimate- it has been done before- and we will see how it works out. The last year has been one of great instability for local government. I refer to the comments of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  who said that there is an incapacity to plan. This is a serious shortcoming from which all governments, particularly State and local governments, suffer at the moment. With the current rate of inflation and state of the economy things can change very quickly. Local government has no concept of what it is in for next year. Many local governments within my electorate planned and indeed implemented rate increases from 25 per cent up to 45 per cent- one of them was up to 65 per cent- which encouraged some of them to feel that they would be received better by the Grants Commission if they did so. I will not argue that case here. They have put an impost on the people of the area in order to hold the situation. Assistance through the area improvement program and the Grants Commission is unknown. It is extremely difficult to budget and to be constructive in their approach if they do not know what is coming next year. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties' policy overcomes these problems. We say that there must be an ability to budget. There must be an ability to know what is ahead. A 3-year program gives local government bodies and State governments an ability to see what is before them so that they can plan and so that they know what is coming, so that the ratepayers and taxpayers can make an assessment of their future. The great tragedy of this Government, as I see it, is the psychological instability that it has brought to the community. People will not spend; they will not plan for their future. They will save their money because they are afraid of what is around the corner. That is the tragedy of this Government. 
-I rise to speak briefly in this debate because this is a topic which will have a vast effect on the relationship between governments in Australia when the proposals and policies of the coalition Government are implemented. It seems to me, looking back over 3 years of Labor administration in this area, that its thinking was as confused as the Opposition's spokesman on Treasury matters. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  claimed that the Government's thinking is confused. I think that what the previous Government tried to achieve may have been well intentioned but it bogged down. It went wrong. There was too much control from Canberra. People in State and local government felt that it was no longer their responsibility to look after the areas for which they had been elected. They started to turn off what was happening down here. Then they became critical because they thought that the wish to achieve more for the community was indeed a wish to control more. That may well be so because I think there is an element within the 
Australian Labor Party that would wish to control and would wish to say: 'Let the decisions be made here'. 
The program as the former Government implemented it involved a fourth tier of government that did not come into being. It would have been a fourth tier dispensing with States and with the responsibility of local government. Overriding the lot there was the establishment of a massive bureaucracy in Canberra. This bureaucracy and the demands made from Canberra increased the demands for decisions and for presentation of submissions, on both State and local government bodies. The previous Government was looking for and trying to implement a philosophy rather than a practical thought-through approach. 
The details of our program are not available but the program has been thought through. The capacity for each level of government to truly represent the people and to make decisions which they have been elected to make is the crux. If you try to claim power for ourselves everybody will pull you down. I think that the previous Government tried to claim power for itself. In that regard it completely failed. If it had gone about its program in another way it may have been successful. This Government has cut all those ties and has said: 'We are not going even to look at your approach because we feel it was the wrong approach. We feel it was absolutely centralist and failed to get the involvement and participation of Australians'. The previous Government could well have drawn on the great capacity of individuals in Australia in order to achieve its programs if it had so desired. 
The Opposition says now: 'Our thoughts will unfold over the next few months'. What has it thought through? It knows it has failed in its programs. It knows they will not work. It knows it had almost every State in Australia crying out for better understanding, less control and more assistance. The States realised that the Federal Government was collecting more money in Canberra as a result of inflation but that they were not seeing their right share of the action. One cannot blame them in view of their increasing costs and charges for acting in the way they acted. The Opposition now says that it has not thought through its programs but they will unfold as the months pass. No doubt these thoughts will be reactions to the programs presented by the present Government. That is unfortunate. Instead of raising again the programs rejected by the electorate I suggest that the Opposition start thinking about new and positive programs and provide the Government with the sort of stimulus that is needed to make this Parliament effective on behalf of the citizens of Australia. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  mentioned the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I suggest that the Grants Commission might well be a fine starting place for the consideration of the balance of payments between the States. In the previous 2 financial years, 1974-75 and 1975-76, it is interesting to note the balance of reimbursements by way of borrowings and capital grants to the States. It would seem that the fine balance has not varied over many years. Some States by being particularly aggressive may acquire some slight advantage at different times but generally speaking the balance is maintained. New South Wales generally receives something like 3 1 per cent of the allocation, Victoria 25 per cent, and South Australia 1 3 per cent each, Western Australia 9 per cent and Tasmania something like 7 per cent. These are traditional proportions of a total figure, each State receiving a percentage. I do not think that the problems of collection, who contributes to the national wealth, distances, the difficulties of providing services in remote areas and the cost of providing those services have been taken into consideration in any way in the assessment of these percentages. 
The Grants Commission will look at the programs of all States, examine their Budgets and will bring forward proposals in such a way that the States can be free to make their own decisions instead of having funds provided under every Bill that passes through this House, as we saw in the last 3 years, assigned to a specific purpose. For instance, in the transport field New South Wales could not take funds provided for miles of railway track and use them to purchase carriages. That was not possible. The funds had been designated by the Federal Parliament for track and therefore the State could not use them for another purpose. Great discussion and debate took place. The percentage allocation of funds to the States needs to be assessed on the basis of the population of each State, the wealth produced in each State, the requirements, the public facilities and the interests and demands of the community. The way in which the allocation has been made in the past will not be successful now. 
In the area of local government I felt that the Grants Commission was something of a disaster. Again, whilst the intention to supply funds to local government was good, the Grants Commission became a rate setting body for local government, and councils were falling over themselves trying to crack the formula that would give them money. They lifted their rates by up to 60 per cent to make themselves eligible to receive money from Canberra. 
That did not work. It is not on. The Grants Commission went to these local government bodies and said: 'We are sorry, you did the wrong thing. We really did not mean that you should lift your rates even though we did say you had to attain maximum efficiency and that the level of your rating compared with your rating capacity may be too low'. I feel that in the area of the activities of the States we should content ourselves with assisting the State governments to plan a program so that equality, including equality in a way of life, can be achieved and so that it is possible for individuals living within States to say: 'Our local government has so much money, some collected by way of rates and some given to it by Canberra from a percentage of the national earnings of this country. It will perform or we will vote it out'. The same thing will apply in the State area where State governments, knowing the formula, will be prepared for the process to take place and will eventually achieve for themselves a taxing capacity. They will be able to say: 'We know what is coming, inflation is accounted for. We can plan for the future'. 
This has not happened in the last 3 years. In the last 3 years people have been trying to get on with the job. The job now will be achieved and by the gradual implementation of a co-operative federalism supported by a committee comprising local, State and Federal Government representatives, the difficulties will be overcome. They will be overcome in various ways. Some will be clear cut decisions but I would suggest at this stage that there may be many areas where true thought must be given as to whose responsibility a particular function is. For instance, social security and social welfare programs may best be administered by local government instead of by the Federal Government or a State government; it may well be that programs conducted by State or local government could best be conducted federally. By having a committee of intergovernmental relations these guidelines and the basis of the operation of finance between the States, local government bodies and the Australian Government will be established in such a say that each government area will be able to achieve for its people what it has set out to do without interference from anyone else. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that Medibank does not cover all procedures classified as 'cosmetic devices'? I have noted a report in the  Australian  of 3 March concerning an Anthony Vandermolen, a 4-year old boy suffering from toxacara which has caused the loss of an eye. Is it accurate to say that the existing policy of Medibank does not cover tragic circumstances such as this? 
-I will be delighted to return to the contents of this Bill because I think the contents alone are sufficient to occupy the full time of the House. Matters of trade have been of great importance in the relationship between Australia and Japan. At this stage if I could offer some advice to the  Deputy  Prime Minister (  Mr Anthony)  it would be that he go nowhere seeking lessons on how he should conduct himself. Having been in Japan at the same time as the  Deputy  Prime Minister I found that the response of Government officials, Ministers and businessmen to his commonsense approach to the difficulties of trade between the 2 countries was overwhelming. The basis of past relationships has been related solely to trade and economics. I note that the 2 previous speakers spent the majority of their time on the areas of trade and economic relationships; and rightly so in the present day context. 
The areas where we have the greatest interest with Japan have been mentioned- our great primary products and our mining industry. We have a complementary nature that the 2 countries share by sheer circumstance. This complementary nature will work eventually, and has worked, to the benefit of both. However, the measure before us highlights the shortcomings of the relationships between Australia and Japan and rightly should this be termed the AustraliaJapan Foundation. The key points of the Bill touch the shortcomings that have occurred over the number of years in which we have traded together. The problems of culture and language and the difference in history have not been properly assessed or considered by our 2 nations. There have been some attempts but in no way has there been a concerted effort to look at the difficulties arising from the differences of background, religious understanding, religious belief, cultural practice and, of course, the overriding and extreme difficulty of language and the written word. 
The practice within the Department of Foreign Affairs has previously been that career diplomats, having learned Japanese and having spent some time in that country, will often move elsewhere in the world and that is their last contact with that country in their career. To me that is a tragic waste of expertise. I understand that this is now being remedied and that career diplomats will be posted to Japan perhaps for a period of 6 years, moved away and later transferred into an area where they may have an association with Japan and the Japanese people. The skills and understanding acquired by a stint of service within Japan are hard-acquired attributes that should not be wasted as they have been wasted previously. 
We need to understand the Japanese legal system and what is meant by a contract in Japanese terms. We have heard much talk of contracts, of honouring our word and the written law, but the Japanese concept of a contract and its legal terms is not of our understanding, and the application of legal minds to a correct and true relationship of contracts is of vital importance to our trade. Too often Australian businessmen have found, when signing a contract, that their concept of what is entailed in that contract is binding on them. Under our legal system, this is so. To a Japanese businessman that may not be so. The Japanese businessman tends to look on a contract as a guideline. It is binding. He trusts the person with whom he deals. It is a binding provision but one in which there is room to move. I mention to the House the difficulties at present faced by the sugar industry where variations in contracts are being sought. If they are varied, in our terms they are broken. Perhaps, by goodwill and understanding, contracts can be varied in such a way that at a later date we recoup any advantage that may be given away at this stage. Negotiation cannot be on a hard and fast basis; it must be, I think, on a basis of understanding the complementary and different legal systems. 
Trade requirements and specifications, how ordering takes place, the demands of particular industries, the understanding of consumer demand, the understanding of the requirements of a housewife or family in relation to goods from 
Australia, are of key importance and the Foundation seeks to establish contacts in those areasforeign affairs, language, culture, history, contracts in the legal system, trade requirements and understanding between business. I am sure that the presence in Australia of  Mr Okawara,  the new Japanese Ambassador to Australia, will lend greatly to understanding between the two nations. He is, I understand, an outstanding diplomat. He was formerly posted to Washington. He is considered by Japanese diplomats as one of their most outstanding men. The purposes of the Foundation were referred to in the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he introduced the Bill. He said that the Foundation seeks to develop a structure which would foster a broader and more comprehensive understanding between Japan and Australia. He said: 
This Foundation is the vehicle to bring about those aspirations. Proper understanding between Australia and Japan is of enormous importance to peace and security in the AsianPacific region. In the past the Government parties have acted to bring about a close and constructive understanding with Japan. The Australia- Japan Foundation will be a further significant means of confirming that objective. 
In that speech the Prime Minister linked the Foundation and the setting up of the Foundation with the work done by  Sir John  Crawford and the Crawford committee which was appointed by the previous Prime Minister to examine this matter. The Crawford committee drew out very salient and relevant points in what it felt should be the scope and sphere of operation of the. Foundation. In part it drew attention to the extent and depth of economic relations between Australia and Japan, and to the difficulties that were posed in moving understanding to other areas. The committee felt that there was need to move to other areas and not to confine our interests necessarily to self-interest on either side. The committee suggested that there be appointed in Australia a council of 15 members serving in a personal capacity, drawn from the key elements in Australia, to give a wide basis to the council. The committee also suggested that the council be representative of the community. The committee felt that it was possible perhaps to give the council that would operate the Foundation as much stature as possible in Japanese as well as Australian eyes. The committee felt also that financial support of the Foundation should be encouraged from non-government sources. The committee further felt that it would be most desirable to define at an early stage that there be no conflict or difficulty because of other treaties. The area of interest of this Foundation relates to cultural agreements or trade agreements. The committee felt that there should not be conflict or crossing of purposes. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  referred to the vast number of foundations, committees or councils of this type relating to Australia and Japan. I think the core of this matter is that none of them should be duplicated but that this Foundation should seek to go more widely and more deeply than anything that has previously been undertaken. The proposal that it be something like the Churchill Fellowship is something that I commend. Honourable members will obviously be aware of the fine reputation of the Churchill Fellowship. People from all walks of life benefit from the Churchill Fellowships. Recipients of a Fellowship of necessity make reports on their return and bring back information which is provided to the community at large and not retained for a personal interest or for personal satisfaction. I think the committee suggested that the Foundation act as an advisory body to the Government on matters of cultural importance. It could allow, I would suggest, a way of exchange between government employees, such as parliamentary staff. It could also allow for an exchange between sports coaches, trade union officials, farmers and journalists. There is hardly any area of human activity in which this Foundation could not be active in seeking understanding and goodwill. I refer to areas such as the arts, education, science, economics, law or politics. Some of these areas I have already mentioned. There could be every kind of social and intellectual interchange conducted on the basis of promoting mutual respect and the mutual exchange of knowledge and ideas between Australia and Japan. 
To some extent, that is a summary of what was proposed by the Crawford committee. The Bill, as we see it, completely incorporates those provisions and the advice given to the Government by the Crawford committee. The suggestions made by the committee have been incorporated, without exception, in the Bill. I refer the House to clause 5(2), which states: 
If the Minister so requests, the Foundation shall furnish him with advice concerning any specified matter falling within the scope of the functions of the Foundation. 
Clause 5(1) gives as one of the functions of the Foundation: 
to promote the study by the people of each of those countries of the language, culture and traditions . . . 
Line after line we find incorporated in the Bill the exact proposals of the Crawford committee. Reading the Crawford committee's recommendations, it is not possible to let one's mind to dwell on the vast scope and range of expertise which was applied by that committee to the establishment of the Foundation without in some way being referred back to the concepts and the deep understanding for an initiative- something that is relative and important but something that is practical- that were brought forward by the present Australian Ambassador to Japan,  Mr Shann.  In early days these measures to establish a foundation were termed by some people as grandiloquent gestures. People in high positions in the Department used those terms. Nevertheless,  Mr Shann  's proposition has been incorporated in the legislation from which Australians and Japanese will draw great benefit. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has spoken in this debate. He has shown great interest in the matter. I think his understanding, with that of  Mr Shann,  was probably the key link, but it needed somebody to be the midwife. I am afraid it would have been a prolonged pregnancy if there had not been that understanding. It seems that for reasons of red tape and because of difficulties in relation to interdepartmental considerations this matter was delayed for some time. The delay indicates no lack of interest on the part of the then Government but a lack of capacity in administration which was evident in many fields other than this. I fear that in his interest and personal attribute of attempting to understand and delve into the minds, the culture, the history and the background of the Japanese the former Prime Minister was over-weighed and misled by the activities of other Ministers. We heard one of those Ministers speaking just a short while ago. It would seem to me, after having discussions with the Japanese, that the important thing to do when doing business is to understand what a contract is about, to understand something of the culture and the nature of the Japanese people. That seems to me to be vital. But once having made a decision one should abide by that decision so that one achieves the respect of those people with whom one seeks to negotiate. 
I have said something of the current difficulties of the sugar industry. The salt industry has undergone similar problems. Only by firm action can these problems be resolved. There is no need for an academic approach, as expressed by the former Prime Minister. Neither is there a need for elephantine activity, as was demonstrated by the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy. There is a need to be firm and a need to understand. Fortunately the activities in Japan, of the previous Minister, whilst damaging to some extent, are not irreparable. I think we have now moved to the stage where there is true and proper understanding, where departments and people with expertise within our embassies and on our consular staff can exchange ideas knowing that they will flow to the Minister, that the Minister will perceive the value of those comments and act upon them. There is no way that a nationalism, expressed by way of resources diplomacy, is of any great value to any nation in the world. We have seen the Arab nations express to some extent diplomacy of resources. The fearful circumstances of that soon became obvious to the world. I put it to the House that part of the reason for the previous catastrophe between ourselves and the Japanese people was a denial of resources. I think that if one starts to get into the area of resources diplomacy one will reap the whirlwind. I think that whilst the former Minister did not reap the whirlwind, he was not in that position sufficiently long for the whirlwind to build up. It was a fortunate thing for both countries. 
The support of private enterprise for the proposal to establish the Foundation is something that I would like to stress. I hope that those businesses and enterprises which have an interest in Japan will strongly support the Foundation by benefit of gift or contribution so that they, their employees or future generations can benefit. Since the foundation of our understanding started with the economy and with trade between our nations, it seems an obligation almost that private enterprise and business should be involved in the Foundation. It is a wider thing, a deeper thing, but the benefits will also be wide and deep. I cannot stress too strongly my feeling that business of Australia has in some way a debt to play a part in achieving future understanding and the future security of the relationship between our 2 nations. If business can permit itself to be involved I think the benefits will indeed be great. 
The establishment of the Foundation is probably the forerunner to further acts which will consolidate our relationship with Japan. The former Minister touched on the Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation, the so called former Treaty of Nara. I trust that that Treaty will be developed and signed shortly. It too was delayed by lack of will to press it forward. No one denies that it is a difficult measure, but the lack of will was the reason for its delay. It is an umbrella treaty and there are many areas of complication. The inference for Australia and Japan is far reaching. There is significance in the fact that it expresses an intention. But an intention in these circumstances must be expressed in fact at a later stage, such as the upgrading of the trade agreement between the 2 countries which was last written in 1957. 
As I have said, this measure has been described as a 'grandiloquent gesture', but I think the travailling conflict of the past has dissolved through necessity and that the future for our 2 countries holds a prospect for mutual benefit and understanding. It is by measures such as this and the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation that depth is given to such a relationship. 
-Tonight we are debating the appointment of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has outlined broadly the co-operative nature of this Committee in the past. It was established by a motion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in June 1 974 and agreed to by the Prime Minister (  Mr E. 
Whitlam). It was October before the Committee got under way. I think that the honourable member for Melbourne and I share the honour of being the only 2 original members of that Committee who will be members of the Committee that we are seeking to re-establish. In that capacity both of us are proud of the role that that Committee has played, the co-operative atmosphere that prevailed, the work that has been done and the report we hope to present. In this way the activities of the Committee have been in the best traditions of the House and of House committees. It is unfortunate that other committees have difficulties of party difference. In the early days this Committee had some party difficulties but they left members of the Committee unaffected. 
The Committee has conducted public hearings in all capital cities and in Canberra. A vast volume of evidence has been taken under oath, amounting to something like 250 submissions plus various other documents, publications, booklets and papers. Evidence has been given by a large number of people from all walks of lifeteachers, parents, representatives of colleges of advanced education and universities, doctors and psychologists. What became apparent to us quickly was that learning difficulties do not affect just children or young children; they can affect people all through life. We received evidence that some adults have suffered seriously from a lack of understanding by parents or teachers that they were suffering from some shortcomings and they have gone through life impaired and incapacitated, sometimes in a major way, through not having their particular problem diagnosed at an early stage. 
The terms of reference and scope of the Committee are wide. They place on the Committee a responsibility to inquire into the incidence of specific learning difficulties throughout Australia, to examine measures that are being taken at the present time to overcome these difficulties- the Committee will be reporting on the success of present measures- and to examine the public awareness and knowledge of learning difficulties and the awareness in the medical, health, teaching and social welfare areas. Evidence has been drawn from all these areas and the Committee has confined its activity basically to the terms of reference. But the Committee has also seen the need on occasions to go outside its terms of reference and to look at the socially deprived, Aborigines and migrants to see whether their background and the difficulties they face in a new community or a strange society prevent them from coping with the learning process. No doubt the report, when presented, will cover some of these areas. 
A great deal of interest has been shown in this Committee. There was some concern on the change of government that the Committee might not continue. I am pleased and proud to find that it will be continued because it would have been a shame if it had been disbanded after doing so much work. It will not be long- 25 August at the latest- before the final report is required. Members of the community- special interest groups, educators and medical people- right throughout the country have a vital concern in the nature of the work being undertaken by the Committee. I would like to compliment the Government on the decision to re-establish this Committee, as I compliment the previous Government for instigating it. As I mentioned earlier the wide range of matters that have been investigated basically revolve around the acquisition of literacy and numeracy- the basic skills of survival for the human. It is not possible, for instance, to acquire a driving licence unless one has a certain level of proficiency in reading. One must be able to read to answer questions and to read road signs. Some people find difficulty in coping with that small level of skill. It has been put to the Committee that these people, through being unable to cope with the learning process and because a social stigma is attached to their very simple learning problem, are the types who are encouraged to take into their own hands motor vehicles or other things that are not rightly theirs. 
The survival skills that also spring readily to mind are the capacity to operate a bank account or cheque account and the ability to enter into a hire purchase agreement. Many honourable members may regret having that capacity but the terms and details of a hire purchase agreement must be understood, as must insurance agreements be understood. This has been the basicwork of the Committee. It has looked at matters such as the curricula of schools, colleges and universities. It has examined teaching techniques and the application of the concept into a form that is coded by the human mind and then decoded in an active role on paper or in selfexpression by way of speech. The Committee has looked at remedial teaching and at the capacity for severely handicapped or slightly handicapped children to be taught and encouraged to play a fuller role. It has looked at the difficulties of remedial teachers, the effectiveness of their programs and whether they are starting to understand the complicated nature of a learning difficulty. It seems that learning difficulties vary from child to child and there is no ready answer in any area. Committee members spoke to doctors who also pointed out to us the problems of physical impairment, including matters such as minimal brain dysfunction and neurological causes. Solutions are not easy in those areas. I have already mentioned social impairments that can markedly retard the progress of learning. The assistance given by our advisers on the former Committee was very great. They were very skilled in assisting us. They came from universities, one in Sydney and one in Brisbane. Their great skill and knowledge were applied to the subject that we had in hand, leaving behind the bias of their academic course of training. 
When the report is completed it will be sought by people at all levels who are interested in this area. It will be sought by educators and by people in schools. It will be sought by Departments of Education, by Commonwealth departments, by people employing, by people conducting remedial courses. It will be sought by people who are training in technical colleges on how specific learning difficulties can be assessed, on what exactly is the situation in Australia and what assistance is available. I would like to suggest to the honourable member for Melbourne that it is not just behoven on us to present this report to this House and expect the results to flow solely from this place or this Parliament. I would like to suggest that the results of the inquiry and the findings of the Committee will be looked at, delved into and examined by people right across the nation at all different levels, not just here in this ethereal city of Canberra because if it is confined here I think we have failed in what we have set out to do. I think that we set out to demonstrate that the criterion of teaching must be for each individual to achieve as near to his potential as is his capacity to do so. 
-We are discussing a matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, namely: 
The failure of the Government to stimulate the housing and construction industry. 
I think we should be debating the housing and construction industry but I do not like the initial words: 'The failure of the Government'. All the facts and figures that have been presented today deal with the period up to January- from October to January, July to January. To which Administration do those figures refer? The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  used facts and figures, from organisations that we presented to him over the 2 years of his administration. He refused to take note. He refused to use them. We will use them. The Government will take note and we will act. That is the difference between the outlook of the Government and that of the Opposition. 
The building industry provides something like 8 per cent to 9 per cent of total employment. It provides about 25 per cent if related industries are considered and about a similar proportion if the gross domestic product is considered. The skills of those in this industry have been acquired over many years. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  gave certain facts relating to the industry, but I say to him that it was in the 1960s and the early 1970s- I shall repeat to him his own words- under the administration of the Liberal-Country Party Government that the building industry in Australia was built up to the force it used to be before it was destroyed by the people opposite. Let us have a look at building approvals and what the previous Government did to the building industry. I do not feel that building approvals are an accurate indication of what is happening in the industry and I have said so before in this House, but building approval figures are the ones that the Opposition used when it was administering housing, so let us use those figures. Let us have a look at total Government and private expenditure on dwellings over the last year. Let us look at the expenditure in 1974-75. A total of 41000 dwellings were completed in that year. If the full effects of the previous Government's Budget continued to be felt throughout this year 32 000 dwellings would be completed in 1975-76. But the figure will not finish at that level because there are signs of improvement. There has been a general decline over a long period. 
Let us have a look at related industries which the Opposition did not mention. There has been a 50 per cent decline in the production of bricks in Australia over the last 2 years, the 2 years in which Labor mismanagement of the economy had full reign. Production declined by 50 per cent, which meant 50 per cent fewer homes constructed under the previous Government. Let us have a look in other areas, such as home ownership. In 1966, 71.5 per cent of Australians owned their own homes. By 1971 the figure had declined to 64 per cent. I guarantee that surveys would show that the figure is a lot lower at present. I guarantee that the present figure is way below 64 per cent and approaching 50 per cent. Let us have a look at home ownership and building activity in New South Wales. New South Wales used to have something like 36 per cent of the population of Australia and 35 per cent of housing activity. By September 1975 that proportion of population had been retained but housing activity in New South Wales had dropped from 35 per cent of the Australian total to 23 per cent. That is what the Labor Party did to the building industry in New South Wales. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about the Building Workers Industrial Union and  Mr Clancy. Mr Clancy  said that between November 1973 and November last year 30 000 men were forced out of the industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition knew about it but he did not speak up in November or July of last year. It suited him to wait until this stage before indicating to his supporters what has happened in the building industry and what the Labor Party did to the building industry. Let us have the survey reports and let us find out exactly what the previous Government did. Those surveys will demonstrate it right enough. I do not deny that there are problems in the building industry. The previous Government created them. We are determined to do something about them. With the perception, the understanding and the resources that this Government is prepared to use to gain information- information the very existence of which was denied by the previous Government- we will be and are in tune with what is happening in the building industry. We know that there are problems and we will do something about them. 
Housing in Australia has become a problem. Land and new houses are too expensive. Who brought about that situation? Remember the early days of 1973 when interest rates on housing mortgages were raised. Mortgage rates are far too high. There is a shortage of rental accommodation caused by lack of new construction. What has happened to material costs over the previous 2 years? They rose by about 23 per cent per annum and they were rising in December 1974 at about that rate. In February of this year they are rising at an annual rate of 12 per cent- quite an improvement and that improvement will continue. 
The price of houses boomed in the Labor period. The annual rate of increase in the cost of housing was 30 per cent. What is it today? Something like 12 per cent to 13 per cent. This is a fair indication that things are starting to improve. The costs are coming down to some extent. The completion time of houses has improved by about 50 per cent. But in the boom period of the Labor years housing was a disaster. We told honourable members opposite that it was a disaster. The platitudes and the sunshine talk went on  ad nauseam.  I should like to refer to additional figures that have been cited in regard to the decline of professional activity in the field. What did honourable members opposite do about the decline? The figures show shop building construction down by 70 per cent; factory building down by 47 per cent; offices by 62 per cent and other business premises 25 per cent. In the professional areas of planning and architecture the figures show a decline of 39 per cent in architectural staff, 14 per cent in consulting engineers and 27 per cent in quantity surveyors. The total figures of employment produced by  Mr Clancy  are interesting, but it would seem to me that the figure for January is a most revealing one. 
Let us go back a little bit further to the month of December when there was a massive 1 1 8 per cent increase in unemployment in the building industry. Who was responsible for the administration that brought that about? I quote from a speech of a previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in February 197S. In his wonderful words of wisdom he said: 
The current high rate of loan approvals for housing is in line with the Government's objective of providing a quick acting stimulus to activity and employment in the home building industry. At the same time, the Government is determined to avoid a return to the earlier boom conditions in the home building industry which were neither beneficial to the community nor to the industry. The combined effect of the various measures taken should be to restore activity in the home building industry to a satisfactory level but the Government would, of course, continue to reassess policy with regard to the availability of housing finance in the light of developing circumstances. 
Nothing happened. Things got worse. We now have a homes savings grant scheme. We now have proposals whereby at least people can commence to purchase their own homes. That is something that did not occur under Labor Government administration. Honourable members opposite lent out money to the trading banks but they made it a requirement that that money could be taken up only on second-hand housing. There was no provision for young people or new homes. They refused to recognise the importance of that area. During their period of administration they did not recognise it. I believe that the former Minister at the table, the honourable member for Reid, did mention it on one or two occasions, but he failed to achieve anything in the area of the deposit gap- an important area; an area that assists young people to get their first home. This area has now been covered by the present Government, which is determined to look after the welfare not only of the building industry but of the young home builders and the industrial builders of this nation. 
I was interested in the reference by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  to his deferred mortgage repayment program. I heard it mentioned in private, but I do not think I heard it mentioned in the chamber. Certainly the people in Australia who are building homes never heard of it. They never saw any proposals that this program should come into effect. There was no detailed discussion on it. There was no solid proposal for people to purchase their homes under this scheme. Yet at the same time we had the then Government creating a nation of home renters. It appeared to the community that, instead of encouraging home ownership, the then Government was encouraging the nation to be a nation of home renters. It was putting the cost of housing out of the reach of the average individual and then renting it back to him under some government-based program. 
I think the concept of this program needs to be put in the context of Liberal-National Country Party policy and the proposals that were put by our spokesmen before the election and in fact tied in to the Liberal-National Country Party's policy on housing. The basic policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties is to recognise and carry out a program whereby people in Australia can own their own homes. This is the very keystone of our proposal for home ownership and home building in Australia. We have been assured by and have ascertained for ourselves from the previous program of home savings grants that in this way the cost of housing is reduced over the life span of the occupant and that it provides an absolute security of tenure. 
A person who owns his own home and land is secure. There is no way in which he can be affected by the whims of government through housing commissions, housing corporations or any other mechanism that government may care to set up. In that way the raising of a family and the establishment of lives securely based in a family home comes about. The acquisition of a valuable asset does ensure this security. Not only does it ensure a security whereby people have a psychological outlook that is somewhat different because of that security but also it provides a value security, a financial security, a place that is one's own, an asset that can be called on in times of dire circumstance. Anyone who travels around the nursing homes and the aged people's homes of this country will see in them many people whose only asset that put them in a place where they could be cared for was their family home. The pride of ownership provides a personal incentive for property improvement. I think that one has only to drive the streets to have this become patently obvious. 
Our basic policy objectives seek to ensure that every family in Australia is able to obtain adequate housing within its capacity to pay-and that is the key. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition raised some of the problems in home ownership and the acqusition of suitable accommodation, but I am afraid that the topic that he raised is the aftermath of a Labor Party program. It is the shambles that have been left behind. The problems that we are endeavouring to cope with and that we are successfully coping with are the problems that were created by its program. The encouragement of home ownership across the widest possible range of income groups, concentrating federal assistance in the areas of greatest need, is a policy objective that we seek and will achieve. 
The current situation is a difficult one indeed. Over the last 3 years there has been a dramatic drop in the number of homes completed. We have seen the home completion rate dropping in the private sector at the rate of roughly 20 000 homes a year. Twenty thousand fewer families are able to live in their own homes each year. 
Perhaps, as the honourable member for Lilley has said, a tent, provided it was rented, may be more suitable accommodation. The Australian Housing Corporation was established to overcome this problem. It was a boost not to home ownership but to the provision of housing which people could never own. If the current year were to continue in the way in which it appeared that it would continue from December the difficulties would be extreme. 
The new program replaces a program that was introduced in 1964 to help young married couples acquire their first home. By June 1975 more than 350 000 young couples had been able to take advantage of the home savings grant scheme. There were difficulties and shortcomings in that program. For example, to be eligible to receive its benefits one had to be a resident in Australia for at least 3 years, but that has been changed. Also one had to be married or widowed or divorced with dependent children. I think honourable members in this House will agree that they would like to see single honourable members of the House benefit by this program. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  could take advantage of the new program. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  is another person who could well take advantage of it. Those gentlemen, if I may use them as an example, could start saving over a period of 1 year or 2 years before they marry, or during their term of engagement or betrothal, as the case may be, to help establish the base that would make them eligible to take advantage of the program. 
There is no age limit, so that should those honourable members pass that age of 36 years, which was the age limit under the old program, they would not be restricted. No person in the community would be restricted on an age basis. The means that people who decide to marry and to establish for the first time their own home upon reaching mature years can take advantage of the program. It means that people who have not been able, due to financial circumstances in the earlier part of their life, to take advantage of acquiring their own home will be able to take advantage of the program. Migrants who come to this country from overseas and who bring with them their life savings to invest in the new country in which they will be dwelling, raising their families and contributing so well to our community, will have those life savings considered as part of this program and gain additional finance to establish their home. 
It is not possible in the climate of inflation to have a stable atmosphere for home building, and the recent 6.4 per cent wage indexation increase means that the cost of the average home has now risen by about $1,500. This Government has a 2-fold responsibility. It has a responsibility to present programs such as this, and at the same time it has a responsibility to contain inflation and to control the economic climate so that benefits from programs such as this can be properly achieved by individuals who are eligible to receive them. Under this program, if one saves $1,200 on a six-monthly basis, one can achieve over a year a benefit of $667, and in 2 years one can achieve a benefit of $1,333. In that way it is a grading-in program, so that provided that by 3 1 May this year people have their funds allocated and their savings invested in approved areas they can take part in the program. Approved areas, of course, are the traditional ones, such as the savings banks and fixed deposits with the trading banks, as well as including shares in or deposits with registered building or co-operative housing societies. They also include payments on the land on which the home is to be built, deposits paid on the acquisition of the home, or payments for the construction of the home. 
It is an imaginative program and one which will provide many and far reaching benefits. The middle income earner, in the climate created by the previous Government, could not purchase his own home. The proposition is that in the days of the previous Government anybody earning less than $240 a week could not purchase his own home. That figure was produced by the Department at that time. One just had to line up the figures to see that a person's average weekly earnings had to be more than $200 a week before he could hope to own his home. Under this program there is the possibility of many more people owning their own homes. In essence the program means that people have a purpose in saving and that their savings are not hived away in the hope that one day the person saving will achieve his deposit. People will know where they are going with their savings program and that they can achieve a home of their own. This program will mean that young people, migrantsthe whole community- will receive great benefit from the program provided that they are buying their first home. It means that eventually they will have their home to own. 
-Has the Minister for Transport read of the claims by the Leader of the New South Wales Opposition that he has promised to raise about $60m through the sale of unused freeway land? Is he aware that it is proposed to use the proceeds to fund a 20 per cent cut in New South Wales transport fares? Does the Minister view this election promise seriously? 
-We are dealing with the Roads Acts Amendment Bill which amends 2 Commonwealth Bills. As much as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  may wish to say that these amendments are subverting the pattern of the Jones legislation, as much as he would like to present that train of thought to the Parliament, I would like to throw back to him that the fact is that the people of Australia wish that type of legislation to be changed, and they indicated that at the election in December. The centralist thrust, the control from Canberra, denied in fact the proper decision making capacity to the States. The Leader of the Opposition wishes that capacity to continue. He does not wish to accept a responsibility. 
I felt that in the Leader of the Opposition's speech he was in some way endeavouring to enter into part of the discussion of the New South Wales election without actually having been invited to do so. Perhaps that was only a passing influence that I gathered from the overtones of what he said about the Hume Highway. The fact is that the people of Australia wish the Jones type of legislation to be changed. Honourable members can talk as much as they want about the Jones boy, what the Jones boy did and what the Jones boy controls. The people of the nation said that that was not for them. The people who know local conditions and State conditions wish to take charge of their own responsibilities. 
If we look at cities and if we look at traffic patterns as a whole we realise, I am certain, that traffic congestion wastes our fuel, wastes our engines and wear out our transmissions but last and not least it strains our nerves and cuts into our leisure time. Engineers and economists have been making estimates of the actual cash costs caused by traffic congestion and they are alarming enough. When it comes to the non-cash but nevertheless very real costs imposed by driving fatigue and sacrifice of leisure, all estimates made hitherto have greatly erred on the cautious side. I believe we now have methods for valuing the economic loss they cause. It turns out to be far higher than was previously supposed. Information can be analysed to tell us how much cash the average motorist will sacrifice to save an hour's driving time and some conclusive results have been obtained by  Dr Thomas  of the Stanford Research Institute in California. 
The high valuation placed on saving travelling time again draws attention to the plight of public transport. In order to compete with the private car, public transport must offer savings not only in cash but also in time- that is, taking into account the time required to walk between home or destination and the nearest public transport stopping place. In fact public transport still successfully competes in only the few cases where it has been able to offer such time savings. Without these savings, public transport could not attract traffic back to it, even if the transport were provided free. In fact a recent questionnaire in Chicago showed that about half the journeys would still be made by private car even if public transport not only were provided free but also travellers were paid, in addition, a subsidy of 40c per journey. So indeed it is a great difficulty and there are no black and white answers in this area. 
The motor car is not going to vanish. The need for freight and freight dispersal throughout this country is not going to vanish. Much as former Ministers, the Jones boy included, and the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  may have wished the motor car to go off the face of Australia, that will not happen, it cannot happen and people cannot be paid to make it happen. 
The Bill before us relates to 2 Acts- the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Actand seeks to amend them in 2 major areas. The means by which funds were applied to national roads in the original Act have been changed in that the amount payable to each State for approved national highways has been adjusted so as to take in the total program this year for construction and maintenance. This Bill takes in the total amount in each area. I put to the House that this is significant, but the second major amending feature is even more significant. I believe it will promote efficiency and a flexibility within the scheme that was not previously available. Probably no other feature of this Bill is more important than the flexibility built into it. 
There are other very important features that I will deal with later. But this flexibility will allow an efficiency which the Leader of the Opposition failed to see and failed to understand. He still wants things controlled from Canberra. I am afraid that the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament in New South Wales also wishes to see control remain in Canberra. He does not wish to accept responsibility as a future or embryonic Premier of that State. He would prefer somebody else in Canberra to make decisions for him- perhaps the Jones boy. The flexibility allowed in this legislation will allow States to construct or maintain national highways in such a way that they can apply the funds to the best use. It means that the States can construct or maintain roads so that they operate efficiently. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the Roads Acts Amendment Bill which allows for a variation of previous roads Acts. It proposes that the sums allocated in particular to national roads should be lumped together; that is that the sum of $64m allocated under this Bill should be lumped together with the sums allocated under previous Bills. I am sure that if we could look into the hearts of honourable members opposite we would find that the Bill has the general acceptance of the entire House. This Bill provides flexibility to State governments to ensure a more efficient use of funds allocated for the construction and maintenance of national highways. 
The second portion of the Bill deals with a more local issue, that is the former States grants which were allocated to special areas and special categories for road maintenance and construction. Some of the matters dealt with in the Bill are the construction and maintenance of rural local roads, minor traffic engineering and road safety improvements- the MITERS programconstruction of urban arterial roads and the construction of urban local roads. I believe that these programs were administered by the previous Government basically from Canberra. The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is suggesting that the allocations should be decided by the Federal Government on the basis of the total allocation of funds for roads and that State Ministers should set their own priorities on the funding of special projects in their States. What we have seen in this legislation is something that is new in the federal context and in the LiberalNational Country Party policy on federalism. It gives back to the people who have their greatest capacity and knowledge for decision making their true role, and it will enable State governments to decide whether they will proceed with projects that are important to them or whether they will go on with programs that are important to local government. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to the Urban Transport Advisory Committee report to the Minister for Transport and Highways and the Minister for Planning and Environment in the New South Wales Government. The Committee completed its study in New South Wales and its findings will be the basis of funding in the future. It will be a matter of State governments using their expertise to assess the needs of the people within their States and then saying to Canberra: 'These are the areas that are important. Please fund us on that basis'. There is an additional advantage and an additional attraction in this Bill, and I commend the Minister for being far sighted in respect of this legislation. It is a real innovation. It is something which has come in with the new Government and probably it is the most outstanding example, in legislative form, of the policy of the Government that took office on 13 December. I hear 'Hear, hears ' coming from the House in support of the Minister for the way in which he has used his authority, for the co-operation that he has extended in his dealings with the State Ministers and for his understanding of State problems. I know he has many more such fine proposals which provide that revenue raised in Canberra will be reimbursed to the States in a way that will enable the most work to be done. People get the most value for the dollar that they pay in tax. It is idle to say that some bureaucratic process here in Canberra can make these sorts of decisions and then tie the States to those decisions. 
But I return to the Urban Transport Advisory Committee study in New South Wales. I point out to honourable members that this study is based on New South Wales continuing to receive funds at the traditional level. There has been no consideration by the Committee of the need for additional funds for special capital projects. We have seen various proposals brought to this House in this respect. I believe that in the Parramatta area and in other areas of New South Wales study teams are looking at the possibility of improving the railway programs. I believe that the possibility of extending these programs to Kellyville and to Hoxton Park is being investigated at the moment. But a huge amount of funds will be needed for these high capital projects. This Committee which has been established in New South Wales takes no recognition in its planning of the possibility of such projects corning to fruition. It deals with what is available within the State. It is concerned with the upgrading of transport facilities so that they can be used in a better way. New South Wales is improving its rolling stock. One hundred carriages have been completed, tenders have been let for 50 more, and 100 more have been ordered. 
The Urban Transport Advisory Committee has said in respect of the road situation: This is our program; our order of priorities for capital funds will be such and such. I am sure that the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table, will understand when the States come to him with special projects such as this and will not say that people must use public transport. He will not say that people must use roadways. He knows that the situation is not black and white. He knows that the people on the spot can make a far better assessment of what is most applicable and suitable in the circumstances. 
Before the sitting was suspended we discussed the various details of the Bill. The plans that I outline for State and local government are quite new in that they allow not only flexibility between programs but flexibility within programs. As an example of flexibility between programs, New South Wales has decided that it will take up $450,000 as part of the minor traffic, engineering and road safety improvements program. No other State has opted to take advantage of the MITERS program. It is their right to make this decision. No doubt the problems of the huge urban areas has prompted the New South Wales State Government to say: 'We need funds for these minor traffic improvements'. When I look down the list I see that other States have decided that their needs are in other areas. It is interesting to note, for example, that Victoria feels that the construction and maintenance of rural local roads is something of which that state is in sore need. It has made a free choice. As has been said here this evening, there has not been some intention here in Canberra to press any decision on that state in respect of this matter. 
Political issues were raised in respect of this matter. The National Country Party of Australia was mentioned, I think falsely and inadvertently with a lack of understanding of the intentions of this Government. Victoria has decided that this financial year its important area of road works should be in the construction and maintenance of rural local roads. As I have said, that is its decision. Why would the Opposition deny it the opportunity of making that decision; why would it deny it that chance? The flexibility between programs allows States freedom to decide in what area they will apply for funds. 
The Minister has been farsighted within the programs in that he has said to the States: 'Look, if you cannot complete your construction program and you wish to apply those funds to maintenance we will not say here in Canberra that we will take those funds back if you do not fulfil the program that you have nominated '. The Minister has said to me: 'You can seek to vary the application of those funds'. I think this allows flexibility which, in turn, leads to a greater efficiency of funds that are used on behalf of the taxpayer. I would like to feel- I am sure it is the Government's intention- that local governments can apply for funds for the upgrading of roads which become a problem in their area. Some of these problems have arisen in my own electorate. Problems can arise when a road that has been basically an urban road becomes used more and more because of development, increased investment in and development of industries and by homes being built. The road is used more and more by residents and by industry. When a road is changing in character I would like to think that local governments have the opportunity to apply for funds for an upgrading of that sort of road. It perhaps could be a road that is reaching main road level or a trunk road level. Obviously in cases like that an application for Commonwealth funds is needed. At this stage, local government has to carry the full burden. I know that the Minister will turn his attention to these matters, in view of the enlightened legislation we have before us. 
Being a resident of New South Wales, it is interesting to note that that State is in the process of an election at the moment. It is interesting to see that the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales in not prepared, on behalf of the residents of that State, to get involved in this sort of co-operation with the Federal Government and is not prepared to seek the maximum for his State. It seems to me that he is not anxious to become involved in what we call co-operative federalism. If he were interested, he would be prepared to sit down with his colleagues from other States to discuss problems and be active on behalf of those people whom he claims he wishes to represent. I cannot find any indication that the present Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales has any desire to be active on behalf of the residents of that State.  His  actions deny it. He would say: 'As long as Canberra keeps making the decisions I will be happy with that. I do not want to get down to the bargaining. I do not want to be effective in saying that this will be our share of income tax or this will be the way that we shall apply funds'. The present Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales is not prepared to get involved in those circumstances. I suggest to honourble members that he is not prepared to develop those techniques which indicate the difference between a politician and a statesman. No one could find a better-natured man than the Minister for Transport, who is sitting at the table. I think it is entirely regrettable that people from the States, particularly the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales, cannot see what is being held out to them. I say this with sincerity: The prospects for the States at this stage are very great indeed. I know that so many of them have accepted what is an advantage and a challenge- a challenge to be the true representatives of their people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The House is debating a matter of public importance in terms identical, almost to the letter, to a matter that was debated in this House 3 weeks ago. The Opposition has raised the matter again on this day, I suspect, purely because an election is to be held shortly in New South Wales. It is regrettable that the Opposition has failed to advance any new arguments or any additional facts. It has had 3 weeks to work on a proposal that it tried to hatch up 3 weeks ago, and has produced no more facts, no more figures, no more indication of real concern for people who are unemployed, for people who are trying to build homes, or for the building and construction industry of this nation. Instead the Opposition has homed in on what it considers to be a politically ripe area. I am sure that the people of New South Wales and of the nation will understand that the presentations of facts and figures, so called, on the area improvement program, funds to local government, and all those sorts of arguments have nothing to do with the topic under debate and nothing to do with the Government's programs. The Government's programs will continue to improve and to provide for the people of this nation, particularly the people of New South Wales, a better way of life, a way of life that they themselves can control, a way of life that will not be directed from Canberra, a way of life that will allow them to exercise their freedom and the democratic right that all thinking people value. That democratic right will be demonstrated in the forthcoming election in New South Wales, when the Willis Government will be returned with an outstanding majority. 
But let us go back through some of the facts. Whilst honourable members on the other side of the House are fairly long in cooking up motions to bring before the House, they are very short on historical facts and information related to the very motions that they put forward. Let us go back through history and have a look at the high level of construction in the building industry, the high levels of employment, maintained by a Liberal-National Country Party Government over a long period of time. Too late the people of Australia recognised that they had made a mistake in their decision in 1972. In fact, it took them only 3 years to decide to reverse that decision in the most massive way. The high levels of construction, the high levels of provision for home ownership, the high levels of employment in this nation stand as a record and a tribute to previous Liberal-National Country Party Governments. Let us consider inflation, which stood at 4 per cent and was decreasing in 1974. When Labor went out of office after its brief period of 3 years in government it had managed to lift inflation to 1 8 per cent- something of a record. In the period it was in office the Labor Party managed to double, almost treble, unemployment. It is a crime and a shame that the Party which claims that it acts and speaks for the workers was so dismal in its performance in the very areas where it claimed that it had policies to assist the average individual in the nation. 
Look at interest rates. Anybody considering home ownership and the interest rate levels would have to look at the Labor Party's record when it was in Government. The then Government quickly reversed the situation where the average working person could purchase his own home, could save and plan and put aside a deposit and know that he could cover the interest rates and the repayments on his own home, to where we became a nation of renters, or of people who could not participate in the purchase of their own property or their own home. Then with the increase in these interest rates we saw a growing demand for welfare housing. People could not bridge the deposit gap. They found then, and they find now, that unless they earn over $200 a week they cannot pay off their own home. Interest rates are too high; they are declining. But, goodness gracious me, the honourable member who had the hide to raise this matter in the House today was a supporter of the Labor Government that brought about this very situation. It would seem that the old saw that applies to rural properties applies to government also. It is said in the country that it takes 3 generations for a family to build a property and to lose a property. But it takes a very brief period for that final stage of the loss of a property. What the Labor Party did in its period of office was to destroy the work of generations of saving and application to the job exercised by previous governments. Now honourable members opposite come into the House claiming that the present Government is the cause of all the problems that they themselves created. 
I should like to bring before the House a statement made, I think, by the previous Minister for Housing but two; it may even have been further back than that, because the Minister did not last all that long. But in September 1974, the then Minister for Housing, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
For some time I have been hoping that we could make this change - 
This is in regard to the savings bank regulation changes- which is very important, because its effects are permanent and long term. 
That was before an absolute disaster set into the building industry and the home ownership proposition in this nation. The then Minister said that he was very pleased and very sure that it would have a great effect in the building industry but he said that we had to wait until the inflationary pressures on building resources which had been plaguing the industry for so long began to diminish. That is an incredible statement made by a Minister responsible for the housing industry, an incredible statement for a responsible person to make right at the very time when it was most difficult, and increasingly difficult, for people to purchase their own homes. I notice that the shadow Minister at that time, now the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who is at the table, made a comment in relation to that statement by the then Minister for Housing. He was most caustic in his comment and I think very succinctly and very importantly hit at the situation. He said: 
The housing and economic situation in Australia has reached a crisis. 
Indeed it has. Things are not good today, but they are getting better. The cost of building materials and the cost to the average person of buying a block of land are declining. They are not going ahead with the rate of inflation. 
We have introduced a home loan savings program that the honourable member's Party deigned to oppose.  His  Government introduced some sort of scheme that allowed anybody purchasing a home to involve themselves in. Commendable as the previous Government's program may have been, ours is more commendable. It allows the building industry to move forward; but more importantly it allows young people and young home builders to participate in the purchase of their block of land and to buy their block of land. I am sure that those living in New South Wales will appreciate this to a far greater extent when they realise that they will have a continuing Liberal Government in that State to provide them with the security and a base from which they can continue to plan ahead and eventually own their own homes. Honourable members opposite need to become familiar with the facts. They had long enough in opposition to become aware of the facts. They had long enough in government to become aware of the facts, but we get continuing sunshine talk from them about how good their Government was and how disastrous this Government has been in the short period that we have had the responsibility of government. I am afraid that that sort of attitude is not convincing to the people of Australia and I am sure it will not be bought by the people of New South Wales, who have heard that talk for 3 years. What the people of New South Wales are saying now is: 'We have heard that talk for 3 years. We were fooled twice; we will never be fooled again'. I think that the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales could take a leaf out of the Premier's book and be more responsible in the promises he is making. 
I should like to recount to the House some of the statements by the previous Government. They so resemble the promises being heard today. In February 1975 the then Treasurer, in talking about the building industry and the home building industry, said: 
In early September 1974 the Government amended the Banking (Savings Banks) Regulations to permit a greater proportion of savings banks' funds to be invested in housing and at the same time the savings banks were requested to increase their rate of lending for housing. Following that, the Government legislated in December to provide $150m to savings banks . . . 
Now that was an incredible decision- a supposed stimulus to the home buying capacity and home building capacity of the nation. It was absolute disaster. The figures continued to go down. It was a disaster, and it got worse until December last year. January was bad, but I could see a definite improvement in the figures. I know that the House will be aware that the proposition put by those opposite is a fallacious proposition designed to influence voters in New South Wales, who, I know, will recognise the falsity of the claims made by those opposite. Theirs is a narrow point of view, an unconcerned point of view, an unthinking point of view. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Australian Council of Trade Unions agreed to co-operate with the Government in its attack on inflation? Can it be said that union leaders realise that a responsible national approach will benefit all working Australians and their families? 
asked the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What has been the expenditure to date of the AlburyWodonga nursery, which is to supply trees and plants to the Growth Centre. 
How many persons are employed. 
What will be the cost per plant when in full production. 
What is the expected annual turn-out of plant specimens from the nursery. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the recent decision by the Japanese Government to ratify the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty? If so, has the decision implications for Australia and the Pacific area? WU1 he take this opportunity to applaud the decision? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the annual running cost of the Yarralumla Nursery in Canberra. 
How many staff are employed and what positions do they occupy. 
What is the annual production from the Nursery. 
What is the cost of production for the 3 most popular plants or specimens. 
-The matter under discussion this evening is an amendment to the Homes Savings Grant Act, believe it or not. The amendment covers various areas of the existing program, including the Government's commitment to introduce a new home savings grant scheme, a program that will allow equity and pride in ownership and a possibility for young members of the community to purchase their first home. It seems to me that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has dealt with various areas of the housing industry in Australia today. I trust that under the circumstances some latitude will be allowed to speakers on both sides of the House. The proposition put forward by this amendment is to allow freedom to set aside finance to purchase one's own home in areas that were not formerly applicable. It applies to people living in rural areas. 
For some years it has been my concern that people living on their parents properties or favoured employees living on properties have not been entitled to the advantages of homes savings grants as they apply to city dwellers. It seems to me that under these circumstances there has been some discrimination against country dwellers. Formerly, unless title could be gained to the area of land on which the house was to be constructed there was no possibility that country dwellers could share in the homes savings grant scheme. This amendment will provide a freedom and a justice in the circumstances. 
In addition, the amendment covers purchasers, whether they be young or middle-aged, purchasing their own home. They will now have the opportunity to participate in this program if they are purchasing through State or Commonwealth housing authorities. I put the proposition to the House and to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that when the final scheme comes into practice we will see a program that serves very well people purchasing their first homes; whether they be in the country or the city; whether it be through a Commonwealth or State program; whether they be immigrants or Australian born; whether they be young or middleaged. If it is their first home there will be equity and opportunity. That is what Australia has been looking forward to for 3 years- an opportunity for fairness; an opportunity to participate; an opportunity to involve people in establishing their first family home. I think that the proposition put by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition tonight has been an interesting academic exercise. To some extent I found it stimulating because the scope of his discussion has raised many issues, ones with which I hope I will have the opportunity to deal. But they were away from the concept of the Government-the proposition that the Government puts to the Parliament-that there should be fairness and equity in the opportunity to purchase one's first home. This is the criteria for the establishment of stability. This is the criteria with which we found a family, with which we give the wage earner, the keeper of the family finances, a chance. 
The various areas with which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has dealt encompass many of the programs. A few days ago he made a statement on heavy construction. The nonresidential area and the housing area have been mentioned tonight. I put to the House that this is irrelevant to the Bill but let me in passing refer to these matters as I feel that it will indulge the House and inform the House if I do so. The proposition that the heavy construction industry has problems contains some qualities of a realistic proposition. It would seem that the problems of heavy industry have been blamed on the Government. I put to the House that for 2 years I have received representations from this section of the building and construction industry stating that it has serious problems. Representatives of the earth moving business and the civil enginering business have said that they are in fear for their lives. 
If one were to turn to the non-residential area of the construction industry one would have to look at the various figures and make a comparison from year to year between the States. One would have to take an aggregate figure right across the nation. For instance, if one were to look at the Victorian figures in the nonresidential area one would have to agree with the proposition that over the last 12 months the figures for approvals have indicated that there has been an increase in expectation- not necessarily an intention but a prospect and a confidenceof $20m. In New South Wales there is an increasing confidence in the non-residential area which rose from $27m in February this year to $5 1.2m in the month of April. In Queensland one would have to recognise that there has been an increase in expectation from $63.4m to $89.1m in the 12 months. This indicates a great confidence. It does not indicate a commitment but it indicates that those people who are concerned for the non-residential area are prepared to put their money where their mouths are. 
Let us move now to the proposition put by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and let us look at the housing industry and the housing construction industry in Australia. Let us look at the ca- pacity of young people to construct their own homes, to purchase their own homes and to live within those homes. I refer the House to an article printed in the  Australian Financial Review  on Thursday, 27 May 1976. The article expresses some concern for the future of the building and construction areas in Australia. Let me draw to the attention of the House the key proposition in that article. The article refers to a survey conducted by Cordell Research and it states: 
Commenting on the statistical situation, the Cordell analysis says: 'The predicted low level of projects coming forward to a construction stage in the June quarter directly reflects the fall-off in developer confidence during 1974-75 when planning declined rapidly. 
There was a fall in confidence which would not allow this nation to move forward. I do not wish to go back into history. I wish to indicate the Government's concern for this area. Right throughout the nation with their best endeavours, people are trying to establish their own homes and to stabilise their future. It would seem from figures presented in the non-dwelling area that this may be happening. 
I would like to qualify that statement by saying that within the State of New South Wales, and to some extent within the State of Queensland, there have been problems. Let us deal first of all with Queensland. I am confident that if he has the opportunity to express himself on this matter, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will do so forcefully, but I would like to say that in the dwelling area, if we compare the 12 months from April 1975  *o  April 1976, we see that the  status quo  has just about been maintained. In April 1975, 1870 home units, whether they be cottages or units, were 
Projected for the dwelling area in Queensland, his year we have seen the projection of 1 830- a difference of only 40 units. This has been despite the problems that the Queensland residents have had and despite the difficulties that the State Government has had with the permanent building societies. I put to the House that provided there was a stability and a continuation of responsible government in the State of Queensland this situation would improve, given a stability in Canberra and a dedication to the true objectives of the people of this nation, a dedication on behalf of the Queensland Government and an understanding of the objectives of the people of Queensland. 
There are problems in New South Wales, for instance. If we take the aggregate figures it is terribly difficult to understand the reasons for these problems. If we weigh the problems of New South Wales against those of Victoria or South Australia or even against those of Western Australia we are forced to accept that there are different problems within New South Wales. In the speech of the previous  speaker  in this debate there was no constructive proposition, no indication where selectivity could be applied from this House, from the Commonwealth Government to one particular State. He based his whole argument on the proposition that stands today within the State of New South Wales. That is not a proposition for the Federal Government; it is a proposition of concern; it is a proposition where we must make every endeavour to take some action that will assist that particular State. But one cannot base one's argument on so narrow a basis. It would seem to me that the proposition put forward by this Bill is part of a responsible action on the part of the Federal Government. It would seem that despite the action of the previous Government to solve the problem of welfare housing, that was impossible. It is 20 per cent of the whole area. For goodness sake, how do honourable members opposite expect us to solve the problem with a 20 per cent interest in the area. It is not possible, and they recognise that it is not possible. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition shakes his head. He knows it is impossible. It would seem that, with the stability of the nation, a capacity to buy, good management of the economy- and I know that the  Deputy  Whip agrees with me- if we follow through on this trend that is now showing some evidence of success we shall, through the various programs of the Government, such as the home savings grants scheme with which this Bill deals, we will provide a capacity and opportunity for all Australians to own their own homes. This is the objective of the present Government. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware that contracts to construct 400 family  homes to be built by the New South Wales Government have not been let although tenders closed on 19 July? What is the reason for a 2-month delay in construction by the New South Wales Housing Commission in the Wollongong, Newcastle, Gosford and Sydney areas which have higher unemployment figures than other areas of New South Wales? Are contracts let by the Commission to the New South Wales Housing Commission Building Group influenced by the Building Workers Industrial Union's requirements for sub-contractors' conditions of employment? Will the Minister use his influence with the New South Wales Government to allow construction to proceed without further delay and without restrictive practice? 
-The aim of the Budget is to put value back into the dollar. It is an old phrase and it is one that is real and meaningful to many of us. With value in the dollar much more can be achieved by individuals, by corporate bodies or by companies, and by all sections of the community. I think that if we use it in the context of government activity it can easily be explained in terms of the funds which flow to different areas of government activity. For instance, if a State government were to receive an increase of 20 per cent in its funding from the Federal Government and inflation were running at 16 per cent, it would have a net gain of 4 per cent. If, however, inflation were to run at a level of 12 per cent, then the net gain to the State would be 8 per cent; its actual increase has been doubled by decreasing inflation by a comparatively small amount. If you carry that supposition into the lives of individuals and families, the cost of day to day life must decrease and the net benefits to those families and individuals conversely increased. 
The previous Government tried all sorts of methods of improving things for the economy and for the nation. Tonight Opposition members are speaking and have spoken of selective stimulation. The previous Government tried every other sort of stimulation, so I do not see why supporters of that Government should not talk about selective stimulation. It tried increasing the money supply; it tried printing money; it tried borrowing money; it tried saying that the problem was not there; it tried buying back the farm. I think it tried just about everything imaginable but the results were nothing marked, except double inflation and treble unemployment. It is extremely interesting to hear honourable members opposite offering comments of a very learned nature tonight following the presentation of our first Budget. 
The reduction of inflation must be the primary objective of any government in Australia today. I think that if we were to look at the responsibilities at all levels of government, it must be conceded that an example set in the federal area could well start a recovery by restoring confidence amongst individuals. It would be interesting to follow this exercise into the area of local government and to examine local government funding and see what is happening and what could happen in that area. The Government this year has distributed $140m to local government in Australia via the States. These funds are to be distributed by State Grants Commissions or similar mechanisms within each State. New South Wales is the only State with an established Grants Commission and it is one that will be filling an interesting role, given guidance by the present New South Wales Government. The funds that will flow to New South Wales amount to $51m. This sum is to be divided amongst local government authorities in two parts: Part A is a per capita grant or a loaded per capita grant which comprises about 30 per cent of total funds and part B is to be established on a needs basis. Within New South Wales of the $51m available, $17m would be distributed on a per capita basis, but the New South Wales Government has agreed that there should be some loading of the per capita grants in that councils with a population density per square kilometre of 25 persons or more will receive $3.12 per capita and those councils with fewer than 25 persons per square kilometre will receive approximately $6 per capita. Part B of the program which is to be distributed on a needs basis will be distributed under a formula established by the New South Wales Grants Commission. It will be distributed in regard to needs revenue equalisation. Although the precise formula of this proportion of the allocation has not be finalised, the Hew South Wales Grants Commission has indicated it will take the following factors into account: The characteristics of population, population scatter, geography of the area, non-ratable areas, growth rates and other factors in a general heading which could perhaps be termed the general character of the local government authority. 
The Commission has also indicated that those councils which have shown good management policies will not be penalised in the allocations, and that it will not be accepting submissions from regions now holding regional hearings in the manner of the previous Australian Government and the Australian Grants Commission. The Commission also intends to visit each council in the State every 3 years and it has established an open line of contact with the New 
South Wales Local Government Association. An open invitation has been extended to all councils to make submissions or to inquire at any time as to the details of its program. If we are to become more specific in the application of these funds, and if we were to take 10 councils in the western suburbs of Sydney and look at the average receipt of funds over the past 3 years, we would find that they have gradually increased from a level of $4.9m in 1973-74 to $5.9m in 1974-75 and$6.4min 1975-76. 
These figures are derived by adding those funds that have flowed from the Commonwealth Grants Commission, the area improvement program, the Capital Assistance to Leisure Facilities program and the tourism and recreation programs. If it is possible to calculate that area as 1 6 per cent of the population of New South Wales, it becomes readily apparent that the increase this year, depending on whether the New South Wales Government does decide on a fair formula, could be as high as $8m and could be as low as $7m which, comparing it with last year, could be an average increase for each council of $100,000. This is a practical exercise and one that I feel needs spelling out because talks of federalism, philosophies and policies that may sound somewhat remote can best be judged in the way in which they assist the bodies they are supposed to assist. 
In the calculations that I have made in regard to particular councils it would seem that the situation that has been found by Victorian local authorities will be duplicated within New South Wales. A budget that sets out to achieve the welfare and the best objectives for the individual will be a budget which proves that at a government level the security of those individuals has best been effected. For some time the Australian community has been looking for security and a sense of well-being. I believe that the community is only beginning to feel that confidence. The activity within all walks of life has started to bubble and there has been a relaxation in that part of the community. 
Al Grassby can come and take me on any time he likes. I will wait for him. The well-being of the community is established by a sense of security. A sense of security is reflected in all walks of life. We are seeing that reflected now. We have seen something that is going to lead this nation over the next 3 to 5 years to a stable, advancing, achieving nation. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the public concern about unemployment and the Government's success in preventing a further decline in the work force, will the Government indicate what positive initiatives it intends to take in regard to employment potential and training? Despite the previous Government's complete lack of success with respect to or concern for the young people who are now unemployed, will this Government - 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether the Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement expired on 30 September. Does the Government intend to extend the agreement for a further period? In any considerations of a new agreement will the Government be looking into or considering the favoured position of the Australian National Line as compared with private operators? 
I was most interested in the comments made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I have taken it to be part of the new policy of the Australian Labor Party that some sort of investigatory body should be established within the Commonwealth sphere to investigate transport accidents. It is an interesting concept, but we have seen such interesting concepts have their ramifications in many other areas. The spread of the Commonwealth into the transport area over the 3 years of Labor Government was anathema to those persons who have had regard for planning and for rationality within the sections of the transport industry. 
The Committee is now debating the estimates concerning the transport industry. It is of particular interest to me to note that the expenditure on transport constitutes 20 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product. It is essential to develop and maintain an efficient and economic transport system which meets the requirements of the commercial sector and which serves to assist Australia's economic well-being. In those circumstances imaginative and effective ideas are needed to cater for both the great percentage of the population living in coastal cities and the requirements of the numerous and dispersed inland centres of population. 
The transport industry is one of the most important industries in Australia. It either adds to or detracts from not only our domestic product but also our international product and the wellbeing of our country. The total funding for transport has grown over the last few years. We have seen it grow still further in this Budget. In 1974-75 it was $4 18m and in 1975-76 it was $494m. This year-1976-77-it is to be $5 18m. The grants and assistance to the States and local government- indeed, in relation to national projects- have grown in a manner that is commensurate with the importance that this Government and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  place upon transport. The roads section of the transport allocations in this Budget deals with subjects as widely diverse as national highways and rural roads. The general roads grant has been increased this year from $ 1 36m to $ 1 40m. 
One of the previous speakers- I believe it was the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)-  mentioned urban public transport. There has been a very great and important total growth for this aspect from $45m to $64m this year. I think that is an indication of this Government's contention that urban public transport is one of the most important areas to which the Government could devote its mind. It is interesting to note in respect of the allocations to the States that New South Wales will receive an increase in its assistance from $ 14m to $29m. The assistance given to New South Wales this year has actually doubled. I commend the Minister for providing for that. 
It no longer should be the cry of the Premier of New South Wales or the Minister for Transport in that State that the Federal Government is not concerned about urban public transport. They have no excuses for declining any longer to make important, advantageous improvements to the urban public transport system of the State. Since the change of Government in New South Wales we have seen no plans for improvement of the urban public transport system, whether it be by way of railways, buses or other method of public transport. I would like to pay tribute to the previous Premier of New South Wales for his ability to convince the Federal Government of the importance of public transport. However, public transport is one section and one section only of a very large and important area. These estimates cover such diverse items as shipping, aviation and rail transport. The expenditure on all the areas of importance as assessed by the Government and the Minister has been increased in this year's Budget. 
One subject that I would like to bring to the Government's attention is the importance of the private transport sector. Whether it be in matters of road haulage, private buses, shipping or any other area of private transport, I think that the care and attention which can be devoted to the encouragement of the private sector to do more and to take up some of the leeway and some of the slack which is being demanded by governments at the moment would be an enterprise and an objective that would be applauded by many people within the nation. I would like to point to some of the savings that may be made by such a way of doing things. 
It has come to my notice that the New South Wales Government is placing greater and greater emphasis upon day labour in its construction programs. Should this policy be pursued recklessly, as I fear that it may be, the ultimate benefit to the people of New South Wales- the employment situation, the welfare of many employees within the State- will be greatly damaged by that Government's policy. I think that the capacity for governments to be more effective and to improve their management is illustrated best by the fact that if all the hospitals in New South Wales were to be cleaned by private contractors there would be a saving of $39m. I think that if we were to extend that sort of concept to government contracts, if we had contracts which were firm but which did not show favouritism, contracts which demanded delivery of service and considered the well-being of the people they were meant to serve, contracts that were thoughtfully designed and thoughtfully let, we would see in many sections of the community a growth in the capacity of government to provide those services which the public so strongly demands. 
The honourable member for Newcastle, the previous Minister for Transport, had words to say about the Interstate Commission. I think the Commission was one of the most disastrous episodes of the Labor Government. I know that his intention in regard to transport was sincere but the Bill dealing with the Commission was not drafted in such a way that it was restricted to transport. It covered many areas of commerce and transport between States. It was the sort of proposal that could have controlled completely all travel, commerce and business with Australia. 
The inter-relationship of types of transport is something to which I think the Government needs to turn its mind. Ships dock in ports which basically are controlled by State governments. The States are responsible for the design of those ports, but then, in one way and another, the goods brought into the country find their way to the consumers. On the other end of the operation, our exports may be damaged seriously by the possibility of delays and poor design of the operation involved in getting those exports from farm to ship or from factory to ship. It seems that there is great scope for thoughtful integration of programs associated with the different modes of transport, particularly in the handling of freight. The Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads, if amalgamated as is proposed by the Government, could well be an important factor in design and in advising State governments. They could participate in a sensible way; not in a way which seeks to control the activity of State and local governments but in the provision of information to those authorities about the most economic way of moving freights and providing transport services. 
We are an exporting nation and our capacity to stay alive on world markets may well depend on our capacity within the transport area. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  would well know that it is most important, if we are to stay competitive, that our transport system be efficient, well designed and related to all modes. Transport by rail, road and ship must be readily convertible, one to the other, so that there is maximum benefit for the producer or the consumer. I commend the Government on its Budget. 
-On behalf of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, I present the report of the Committee titled  Learning Difficulties in Children and Adults,  together with the minutes of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-On looking at the Budget in general and broadly at government activity, the departments that we are discussing have probably attracted more attention and more public comment than even the Department of the Treasury. I point out to honourable members that the Government is committed to a style of philosophy different from that of the previous Government. We believe that the people are capable of achieving things for themselves. We do not believe that the benevolence of government can be expressed in the form in which the previous  speaker,  the honourable members for Reid  (Mr Uren),  expressed it. We believe that such action as arranging for people to receive more of their own funds so they can make their own decisions and show initiative and enterprise will make an important contribution to the future of Australia. 
The value of the $ 1 ,050m in tax cuts made this year is significant in areas which are most important. I do not know whether honourable members opposite appreciate the massive tax harvesting that took place under the previous Government. Although many programs were initiated and thought worthy by the previous 
Government, they were not asked for by the community. However, they were accepted by the community because it was thought that this was manna from heaven. However, people quickly realised that it was their money being redistributed by a centralist Government here in Canberra. Tax collections doubled in 2 years. Now, as the inflation rate comes down and people are receiving some of their own funds, we are achieving a stability and a sense of security for families and people who have benefited by some of the previous Government's programs. Indeed, those programs were not all bad. They were not all bad in intention. It was just that we could not afford as a nation to adopt or control that sort of practice in the development of Australia. 
The Henderson report on poverty in Australia pointed out very forcefully the effect of inflation on the average family and its effect on deprived families- families with real poverty. The report showed what inflation does to them and how it erodes their security. But even with the socially and economically important objectives of the Budget, there have been very significant achievements in the 9 months of this Government. I think that if honourable members carefully examine the expenditure of the departments we are now considering, they will see the thrust of the new Government and the concern of the new Government. There is no way to my mind that there is an incapacity, because of particular circumstances, to deliver the goods that the previous Government delivered or that there is a lack of concern or a lack of intent on important matters. There are different priorities and more overriding priorities, priorities that will have far more long term effects upon the community and upon Australia as a whole. 
I would like to point out to the Committee some of the benefits that have been brought forward by the Government in this Budget and particularly within these estimates. Payments to the States for welfare housing are up by 10.4 per cent. In the last Budget of the previous Government there were massive cuts in welfare housing. This year, the cuts have not been made. There has been an increased commitment to the States for welfare housing. Together with this, a homes savings grant scheme has been introduced. It will allow a first-time home buyer to have a better capacity to bridge the deposit gap, something that was denying them the opportunity to own their own home. In addition to this, there has been a modification of the tax deductibility for interest paid in the purchase of one's home. This is a modification that is sensible and thoughtful. The deduction is confined to the first home and for payments made during the first S years of purchase. These 2 programs- the homes savings gram scheme and the tax deductibility of interest payments- joined together will produce and are producing a very significant effect in the Australian community. The homes savings grant scheme commenced payments in January of this year. The Australian Heritage Commission has been established and proclaimed. It is now performing an important function in the areas of the Australian heritage and the Australian estate. Grants for sport and recreation and for assistance to young people have also been increased in this Government's program. They are positive and thoughtful, and they create a benefit to the community. 
I feel that I should touch on the Department of Construction. The Minister provided some interesting figures for the Committee. He showed by his figures that for the first time for 1 8 months the total projected expenditure on buildings other than dwellings has been over $580m. That was for the June quarter. The emphasis on where the money is going and the stimulus provided by this Government are best demonstrated by my reading the figures for the December quarter, the March quarter and the June quarter. For the December quarter last year in the private sector the figure was $ 191.1m. It got better in the March quarter. It was $236.2m. For the June quarter it was $30 1.7m. It is a significant improvement. I know the Committee appreciates the apparent trend. I hope the trend will be maintained. I feel confident that it will be. I know that the Minister and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development are concerned about the area of dwelling and non-dwelling construction in this country. The sewerage program was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I point out to the Committee that the States now have a greater capacity to set their own priorities than they did previously. If they feel that sewerage programs or housing programs are important, with their increase of 15.3 per cent in taxes returned this year, I am sure that if they are thoughtful and sensible they will set their priorities and not do as the Premier of New South Wales is committed to do- talk about control of all sorts of investment in the building and construction area. That is what he is about. 
What is the future for Australia under a coalition government? What is the future in the areas of environment, housing and community development and construction? The importance of the Commonwealth is confined, to my mind, to certain areas. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition spoke about the economic factors. Despite his talk about economic factors, what happened to some of the growth centres established by Liberal-Country Party governments? We did not call them growth centres. We called it a program of decentralisation. What happened to places like Wangaratta and Launceston when those tariff cuts were introduced? All over the country those tariff cuts produced massive and very important changes to the structure of Australian society. Despite the Deputy Leader of the Opposition's comments about his economic knowledge and his economic advice, he could not prevent that from happening. I know the present Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development is more thoughtful and more effective in what he seeks to achieve. 
The background of race and skills of migrant families coming to Australia needs to be known by local and State governments. Federal cooperation in this area will fit in very nicely with our federalism policy. There is the capacity to monitor, to appraise programs that are adopted across the nation, to provide advice and information if sought, but always to seek in our activity to provide some sort of challenge or some sort of stimulus to other levels of government. The challenges for the future are there in these departments, particularly in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. It seems that there is a potential to build an area of concern and real achievement around a total way of life, about the home, about the community and about the environment. That has not been achieved before in this nation. I think the Minister and his Department look forward to this challenge. We should be looking at minimum standards of achievement in the areas of environment, community development and housing. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of allegations that a major fraud involving illegal payments of unemployment benefits extending over 12 months and involving an officer of his Department in Sydney has been uncovered? What action is he taking in respect of this matter. 
-The amendment is an interesting one. I have taken a little time to examine and endeavour to analyse it. The expression in the amendment is peculiar to my mind because the amendment states that this scheme does not recognise that each household in Australia is entitled to adequate and conveniently located accommodation. 'Each household' implies that people already have accommodation. It seems to me that if one were to apply literally the thrust of this amendment one would be playing a great game of musical chairs with households throughout Australia. It is certainly not the intention of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  I would not think, to do such a thing. The intention that he expressed in his speech is not portrayed in this amendment. The words need to be expressed properly before amendments of this type are made to such an important Bill as the Homes Savings Grant Bill. This amendment appears to be an indication of poorly thought out policies or attitudes. Such policies or attitudes are reflected in amendments to other Bills. They tend to waste the time of the chamber. It is an insignificant amendment that implies, if I gather the true meaning from the speech rather than from the wording of the amendment, things that all Australians would accept. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was not prepared to grapple with the real propositions. They are simple. This Government came to power, roughly at this time last year, stating that it would introduce a home savings grant scheme. Consistent with policy, consistent with public statements, we now have this legislation. On a number of occasions there has been an opportunity for this program to be fully debated by both chambers. In all the debates there has been no significant input by the Opposition, and the Government has not been deterred or has not swerved from its stated purpose of bringing forward a home savings grant scheme that is expanded, far more sympathetic and far more realistic than any previous home savings grant scheme in this nation. I refer to the time when this policy was being prepared,, There seems to be some suggestion that the/Government has no housing policy. That is far from the truth. I quote from a paper prepared by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  when in opposition. Referring to the home savings grant, he said: 
Home ownership will be achievable for low middle income earners without discriminatory subsidised interest rates by this grant. 
That was followed in government by a statement by the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood. At this stage I pay tribute to the work he did in the area of the home savings grant scheme. He was an enthusiast for the concept of providing all couples in Australia with a home of their own. One of the things on which he seized when he became Minister was the proposals made during the campaign and the proposals made in Opposition. He gathered together the material. He launched a scheme for discussion. He made a ministerial statement on 31 March 1976. It is very difficult to believe that such a short time has passed since we lost such an important member of this Parliament. I quote his words: 
These twin initiatives of a Liberal-National Country Party Government have been of great assistance to the people of Australia in helping them obtain their own homes. They are initiatives of which this Government is proud. The Labor Party had legislated to abolish the home savings grant scheme completely and after 31 December 1976 persons building or purchasing homes would not be eligible for a grant. We shall legislate for the re-introduction of the home savings grant scheme, enlarged to provide benefits to a greater range of people than ever before and incorporating other improvements which experience has warranted gives the Government great satisfaction. Not only will this announcement fully implement an election commitment; it will also provide clear evidence of our determination to ensure that all Australians shall have a meaningful opportunity, if they choose to avail themselves of it, to own their own homes. 
That statement was clearly and concisely expressed, in the manner in which Ivor Greenwood always expressed himself. There was an election promise. A commitment was given. Then in government that commitment was carried out. 
The proposals in the Bill improve the previous legislation, are more sympathetic and allow Australians to own their own homes. There were limitations to the scheme that is now running down and which this Bill seeks to replace. The limitations on marriage for widowed or divorced people were very serious. The limitations on the value of a home or property were serious, with the rate of inflation racing away. Only 2 years ago the limitation was $22,500. There are very few homes in Australia available at that price. The new scheme seeks to dispense with that limitation. I think it is a thoughtful modification in those areas- the eligibility of marital status and the eligibility on the level of value of the home. I remind the House that some time ago there was an amendment to this Act. That amendment is incorporated in the Bill and will continue. It applies to public servants or people seeking to buy or build their homes through a State or federal system. It applies also to people who are living on properties where the land is not owned. It wm allow them to proceed with the building, as did the amendment that this House passed some months ago. 
To be eligible, the applicant must be an Australian citizen or have permanent resident status. The person must be at least 18 years old. A person who has owned a house previously in Australia is not eligible for the grant because this scheme is perfectly designed to assist those people wishing to own their first home. They must fulfil certain provisions. The savings which will entitle them to assistance from the Commonwealth Government to purchase their home must be in approved institutions or in acceptable forms. Deposits with savings banks- except savings bank cheque accounts- fixed deposits with trading banks, deposits and shares with building societies, deposits with credit unions, money paid towards the purchase of land or the construction of a home are eligible and acceptable forms of savings for a person wishing to be involved in this scheme. 
It is interesting to note that there are changes which allow more than one person to join in an application. This will give an opportunity for a widower and his son, for instance, to join in an application to purchase a new home of their own, provided it is their first home. It will allow a widow and perhaps a daughter or a young couple and a widowed mother to join in making an application for a home savings grant. I think that this is a very sensible, humane and sympathetic interpretation of the needs of the community. In addition, since the scheme was announced on 3 1 March it has been well publicised that those people who had their savings in a required form last year would be given until 3 1 May to make an application and that it would be backdated to 1 January of this year. So a 3-month leeway was given to people once the scheme was announced. 
It is interesting to make a comparison between the new scheme and the former scheme. As I have already mentioned, one of the most outstanding features of the new scheme is the change in the reference to marital status. It does not matter whether a person is married or not. This scheme allows a young engaged couple to start to save for their first home. It allows a widow, a widower and other people who were denied the opportunity to qualify for a grant under the former scheme to apply for a grant. There was an age limit in the former scheme. There is no age limit under this scheme provided that the applicant is saving for a first home. I have spoken to retiring servicemen who were wondering about their eligibility under this scheme and under the defence service home loan scheme. It has been made clear that under this scheme an elderly man, who is single and who prior to his retirement was engaged in a job where he was required to take lodgings and five in other people's homes, will be eligible for a grant if he is purchasing his first home. 
A number of parties may apply for a grant. There is no limit on the value of the home that may be purchased. There is a grading in of the maximum grant over a period of years. If acceptable savings are held for 3 years the maximum grant is $2,000; if they are held for 2 years the maximum grant will be $1,333; and if they are held for one year the maximum grant will be $667. The maximum savings rate has been increased so that instead of there being a requirement for a $600 increase in savings each year there can be a savings of $1,200 each 6 months, and if there is a short-fall in one 6 month period it can be made up in the next 6 months period, or vice versa. 
The scheme will commence on 1 January. Many people have already applied to join the scheme. They have commenced to save. I would suggest to people buying their first home that they should make their applications to become part of this scheme after 1 January. It seems to me to be important that they should take the opportunity to involve themselves in this very fine scheme. There are some difficulties that have to be sorted out by the Minister. I refer, for instance, to the entitlement of a husband and wife who have been saving under the scheme and who become separated. A wife decides that she will enter into the saving program, but then she leaves her husband and the marriage is dissolved. The husband can go ahead and apply for a grant in his own right. If the discretion given to the secretary under this Bill is exercised the wife, at a later time, can say: 'I wish to take advantage of the home savings grant scheme'. She is entitled to do so. I commend the Government for such a thoughtful piece of legislation. 
No one would pretend that this is an easy piece of legislation. But it is thoughtful and sympathetic, and I know that it will be very well adminstered by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development who is at the table and by his Department. I think it is interesting to define the people who are looking for homes and who are most likely to avail themselves of these proposals. Statistics that I have from various organisation seem to indicate that the greatest demand for a home is made by people between 26 years and 30 years of age. It seems that in our community the average Australian seeks to establish a home between the ages of 2 1 years and 35 years. The occupations of home buyers generally tend to be semi-skilled and their general weekly income ranges from about $ 120 to $200 and beyond. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  mentioned that it was difficult for people in this wage and salary structure to build thenown home. This is a difficult area, but the Government is coping with it. I do not know that the previous Government coped with this matter all that well. I have a statement made on 26 July 1975, by  Mr Riordan,  a previous Minister in the former Labor Government.  Mr Riordan,  who was a good Minister, said: 
I know perfectly well that if we keep non-payers in State dwellings we discourage the good payers who demand to know why the wicked should flourish. 
He then stated: 
But it is too simple an answer to throw away the chances of potential good citizens in the next generation through such logic. We have got to put the hard questions to ourselves and come up with at least some half-way reasonable answers. 
The Labor Government never did that. We have not heard any answers today- not even half-way reasonable answers. The former Minister made that statement just one day before the chop was made to the Australian Housing Corporation. I am afraid that that chop was not mentioned in this Parliament by the Opposition. But funds in the welfare housing field were cut from $175m down to $2 5m. The then Minister was pontificating the day before the chop was made to the Australian Housing Corporation. The very next day off went his head. The hypocrisy of honourable members opposite on this subject is really beyond belief. 
It would pay honourable members opposite to look at the statistics of the home building industry and just see what is happening. They are very interesting statistics too. If we compare, for instance, the 5 months period to September of this year with the 5 months period to September last year, we can see that on average throughout the nation there has been a significant improvement each month in the number of homes that have been constructed. To be more specific, the figures in respect of approvals given for construction indicate that 14 200 approvals were given for residential accommodation in September of this year compared with 12 300 approvals for September of last year. It would seem to me that there has been a very significant improvement in the home building industry in Australia. One can only say that the change of Government and the greater confidence that has been created within the community is the sole reason for this. 
If we look at the average trends of the costs and expenses in the home and land package area in respect of Melbourne or Sydney, we can see what the Labor Party did to young couples and young home builders when it was in Government. The average price of land in 1970-71 was $5,070. In 1975-76 it was $13,600. Look what the Labor Party did to the home buyer in a period of 5 years. Average private home building costs rose from $1 1,600 to $24,000, an increase of 15 per cent. The cost of the average home and land package has jumped from $16,700 to $37,600, an increase of 17.6 per cent. All of these increases were achieved in a period of 3 years. I think that the improved figures that we see indicated in the statistics that are coming forward month by month indicate that the Government understands the way in which policies should be applied to the young people and the home builders of the nation. 
It is interesting to note the Labor Party's attitude on home building and the building industry in general. On 19 November last the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made a savage attack on the drop in the building industry. The very next day the  Daily Telegraph  carried the headline about improvements in the building industry. The headline stated: 'Home-land boom'. One day the Leader of the Opposition says: 'Bad news in the building industry'. The next day the statistics and the newspapers proved him completely wrong. I commend to the House the thrust of this legislation. It is an important piece of legislation which was promised, which has been developed, which has been discussed and which now will be taken up by the home builders of Australia from 1 January 1977. Within a few months home builders will have the benefits of the promises which we made in Opposition and which we have delivered in Government. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been referred to recent reports that undesirable pornographic literature using children has been on sale in shops in Sydney and Melbourne? Has this literature been imported from overseas? Has approval been given for the importation of the literature? What steps does the Attorney-General propose to take in relation to the matter? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Within the Government's federalism policy, does the Prime Minister see a willingness on the part of State governments to accept the role of varying personal taxation? What will be a State government's capacity to vary taxation? Will each State be able to increase or decrease personal income tax and to what extent? How would such a capacity influence the Federal Government's economic planning? 
-When the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads was established in 1 964 the purposes for its establishment at that time were perfectly clear. Indeed, as its most recent report shows, the standards and the objectives of that organisation are still relevant. The goals and objectives as seen by the Bureau are firstly, 'a safe and efficient convenient road transportation system to meet the present and changing needs, requirements and preferences of the nation; and secondly, a road transportation system which assists as far as feasible, overall development to achieve better systems of living and working and for trade and commerce'. The emphasis within the report is completely on the need for change. The Bureau of Roads is a farsighted body that has been capable in assessing the road requirements, the future in transportation and the inter-relationship between the various modes connected with road transportation in Australia. 
The Bureau of Roads has presented 2 important reports. The second report presented in 1 975 is a very fine report. In this report, I think for the first time, a federal organisation recognises the importance of local authorities, local government, in the provision of road transport. Indeed, it is this comment that I suggest has assisted Federal governments to throw the emphasis that has been so sorely needed on assistance to local government. The Bureau in its comments stated that local government, because of increasing inflationary costs was in need of assistance, that there was no capacity within local government to meet the quickly increasing prices that it was paying for road construction. I shall quote from . paragraph 1 1.10 on page 227 of that report. It states: 
These projections should be regarded as being extremely conservative especially those for Local Governments. They are mostly based on the historical response of State and Local Governments to cost rises in periods when the rates of inflation were relatively low compared with the two most recent years, . . . 
We all will remember, particularly honourable members on the Government side of the House, the inflationary factors pressed on all sections of the community by the administration of those days. The 1973-74 and 1974-75 road costs increased by some 17 per cent and 30 per cent respectively. Local government has no capacity to assess that sudden surge in costs. It found the pressures of that time were very significant. It gives me a great deal of pride to be a supporter of the present Government in which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and his colleagues understand the requirements of local government. They have been able to assess very accurately, given the assistance of the Bureau, the requirements of local government. The announcements made recently by the Minister for Transport show that the proposed expenditure for urban and local roads in all States has increased very significantly. The proposed expenditure for rural local roads in all States this year will reach an amount of $89. 6m- an increase from $64m in the previous year. Urban local roads will receive a massive increase, from $14m to $25m. The emphasis that the Bureau of Roads has been able to throw on funding for local government and the effects of inflation on local government would lead a person to believe that the importance of the Bureau and the constructive work it has been able to contribute to the nation's assessments of this important area are very significant. 
One is quite distressed to find that the possibility of slowing down this growth in cost has been rejected only today by various sections of the community. Nowhere have increases in costs been more telling than in the transport area. The capacity for unions and employers to pause in regard to increases in cost in the freight area would have been welcomed by the community. However, most unfortunately the proposal has been rejected. I am sure that those people responsible for that decision will pay sorely in future times for their thoughtlessness and lack of concern for the community at large. 
The Government's response to rural and local roads has been but a part of the Government's activity in response to the report of the Bureau of Roads. But what the new body will do in its activities, what will compromise its activities, I think, is the challenge and probably the concern of many people in the nation. Certainly the level of representation from local government has been high because there is no doubt a concern from local government authorities that the continuing sympathy and understanding shown by this Government may be somehow or other filtered. The advice coming to government may not be so accurate or so direct as has been the case previously. However, I refer the House to the guidelines laid down by the Minister for Transport in relation to the new body which will be an amalgamation of the existing Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. The new body's functions will include the roles that are now performed by the Bureau of Roads. The Minister, in his second reading speech, enunciates those roles clearly. He says that the new body's duties will in part be to: 
Undertake evaluations of the Australian road situation as presently done by the Bureau of Roads. These will continue to be done, as in the past, by consultation in the broadest sense with State and local government authorities. It includes conducting investigations and reporting to the Minister on the matter of the need for financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
There followed a series of factors that will be the reference points and guidelines of the new composite body in relation to the roads section. There are five or six guidelines which perfectly carry forward the impetus that this fine body has given to transport in Australia to this date. The Minister has made a firm commitment. 
I should like to put the point of view to the House that the concern expressed by local government is not so much that there has been a change; it appreciates the reasons for this change. What it fears is that perhaps there will be a change of administration or Minister with this body. I would rue the day that happened because the present Minister has shown a sympathy and understanding for the role of local government in transport and in roads that has not been demonstrated before in the last couple of years. All local government representatives to whom I have spoken have said: 'We understand what you are doing. We appreciate the value of your decision, but we fear a return to those days when we were tightly controlled by a Minister who was getting advice which he chose not to make public'. As I have said, there is no fear that the present Minister will be doing that sort of thing because he has a capacity to understand. He will be building the Bureau of Transport Economics- the new body- into a body with a fine reputation. He will be putting his personal seal of aggressiveness, integrity and imagination on that body. It is a very fine challenge for any Minister to undertake. It is a challenge that is understood by all sections of the transport industry, and it one that they fully endorse as they endorse the Minister. His efforts to build this body will demonstrate in practice, I am sure, that there is no need for the disquiet that some have shown. In practice, this disquiet will find no place in the operations of the new body. I suggest that the reputation of any future Minister could be seriously jeopardised if he were so foolish as to make moves to change the measures that the present Minister has introduced. The reputation of that new body will be so high, so clearly understood, so clearly appreciated by those involved in transport, right from local government through to our large, wealthy, exporting industriesthe industries by which this nation exists. 
Perhaps the role and the future challenge are matters that the Minister and the Government are prepared to accept. In submissions made in 1975 to the Bureau of Roads, the New South Wales Government said: 
The inclusion of road matters on the agenda of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the proposed appointment of a Committee of Road Authorities, the moves made for closer co-ordination in the work of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics are all steps in the right direction. 
So there we have from a State government an assessment of the importance of a close relationship between the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics. That would seem to indicate that there is thought in the community, an understanding in the communityand certainly an understanding at the level of the ministry of New South Wales at that time- that there is a need for close co-operation, a close binding together of the objectives of the 2 bureaus. 
The problems of freight were also mentioned in the same submission from the Government of New South Wales. I think its comments in this regard stated very clearly the need to have a cooperation and basic understanding under one heading and one body. The New South Wales Government said in regard to expressways and general movement of freight over roads: 
The movement of freight should be the major consideration when assessing priority of work as regards the construction of freeways. Freeways should not, however, be regarded as an alternative to rail freight nor should they necessarily have priority over the construction of freight lines; it is necessary to adopt a co-ordinated approach to the problem of goods movement when considering freeway proposals in order that limited resources for various transport projects should be put to the best use when looked at in the total transportation requirement. 
Frankly, that is what this proposal is all about. It is about the capacity to assess the various means of transportation of freight; it is about an assessment of the cost basis of moving goods about; and it is about assessing whether rail or road is a substantial improvement on the movement of export goods. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  is writing away. He is no doubt scoring points; as he does in this House when he takes many points of order or asks for the tabling of documents. But the crux of the matter- the amalgamation of these 2 bureausholds for this country a very great objective and a very great goal that the nation should take and seize. The opportunity for those officers involved in the amalgamation should not be seen as one for dispute or competition but one for looking forward to the very drastic requirements and the drastic means that we have to pay our way in the world and continue to be in the forefront of exporting nations. 
As freight charges are regarded as an invisible item in the country's balance of payments it could be expected that there would be some statistical bases for information. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to obtain this information due to the methodology adopted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in the compilation of Australia's balance of payments. Although the problem of freight costs both within Australia and overseas has received a great deal of attention recently, no consolidated data are readily available from either the Department of Overseas Trade or private sources that would allow anybody to answer a request for information on the transport component of the freight of Australia and the cost to a basic commodity. There is no freight input whatsoever; nor is any information available. 
On writing to the Bureau of Transport Economics as it now exists I have found that it has completed reports on 'The transport and handling of Australia's wool production', 'A study of inter-system railway freight rating practices' and 'An assessment of Tasmanian interstate transport problems', but nowhere in that information is there the same sort of information as is available from the Australian Wool Corporation. That body is able to tell in detail the basic costs of production- the basic costs which must be covered in any sales that are written with foreign buyers and which must be recouped by producers. It is a tragedy indeed for the economic affairs of Australia in the transport area that we have not this information. The Wool Corporation has given to me the fact that the cost of the transportation of wool from the farm to foreign port has increased by 120 per cent in the last 2 years. What greater challenge could those people who are interested in the future of the country have? 
I was wondering today whether the comments made in Canberra by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions are those of real concern or whether they seek to disrupt or change the system. If he had real concern he would be aware of this massive increase in cost of our export goods. If this new Bureau- the Bureau of Transport Economics- can be set a challenge it must be the challenge to assess the cost of freight and the reason for the freight rates charged to our great exporters, whether they be of a mining, manufacturing or primary industry base. It would be my prediction that if it were able to assess those costs it would be found that labour costs were an important part of the overall charges. We need as a Federal Government to be able to look at these costs and to assess what is the best way that we can assist as a Federal Government in helping to overcome themwhether it be through movement on road systems or through the infrastructure of pons so that there is rapid transit of goods and ready delivery to wharf side so that there is quick and capable loading onto ships and the productivity of many people throughout Australia goes to earn real benefit for them and is not delayed or sidetracked through a lack of information or a lack of will by a few people who today have indicated their complete lack of concern. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I think that I have successfully pointed out to the House the importance of the combination that has taken place under this legislation. The prospects and the future for an organisation such as the new Bureau of Transport Economics cannot be measured in terms that are readily understood at this time. It would seem to me that the prospects in the area of examination of freight costs, the relationship between road, rail and other means of transport and the prospects for our great exporting industries alone would be sufficient to warrant the establishment of such an organisation. However, if one were to extend the prospects and the brief of this organisation to cover matters of urban transport, then the challenge for this organisation must be one that is readily seen not only by local government but also by State governments and this Federal House. 
The provisions that have been made by the Government are sound and should receive the support of both sides of this Parliament. The concern that some people have expressed about the bringing together of the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads is not warranted. The Minister for Transport, who has brought this about, has a reputation which few people can challenge. He will make this organisation his own and he will adopt a completely different attitude from that of the previous Minister. The reputation that the Minister has with people with whom he deals is such that he will make an organisation which no future Minister or government will dare challenge. The fears that are being expressed by local government authorities and other persons about this change are completely unwarranted. 
-I found it interesting to listen to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the Opposition spokesman in regard to this matter. Despite the comments that he made about the need for widespread public debate it would appear that the Australian Labor Party is making decision after decision pre-empting any national debate in the community and thereby forcing the community into a polarisation in its attitudes to this matter. I feel that this House needs to adopt an individual approach to the matter of nuclear power and the development of nuclear resources within Australia. In that regard it would seem that the members of the Labor Party from November last year have committed themselves step after step irrefutably to a course which would deny the capacity of Australia rationally to debate the problems of nuclear power and the development of nuclear energy, and mining within Australia. 
Australia's energy needs and the total energy situation within Australia cannot be neglected when one comes to consider the importance of nuclear power and the demands that may be made on it. If one looks at Australia's local primary energy consumption by end use one is brought short to the fact that power generation and transport together with industry take up the general total consumption within Australia. This consumption is basically provided by oil and coal and, coming on line now, natural gas. It is interesting that by 1980 we will see a declining supply from total indigenous oil. It would seem that by 1982 we would need a discovery with the equivalent reserves of the Gippsland fields for us to maintain a capacity to be 50 per cent selfsufficient in our needs. Australia will face some sort of energy crisis. In the last few days  President  Carter has drawn to the attention of the American people the needs for energy that will be evident in that country. 
The Ranger inquiry sets out the world 's power demands. It is evident that as we consider the life of various fuel sources commodity by commodity we see that on a world wide basis the life of coal resources is something like 260 years if they are used rationally. The life of oil reserves is expected to be 39 years and of gas, 55 years. These figures of course depend on there being no interference with free market supply. One needs only look at the situation of the inflationary pressures that were put on many countries by the Arab oil embargoes and policies to recognise that there is not a free flow of energy nor is there ready access to the world's energy by all nations on an equitable basis. 
Australia's supplies for the forthcoming years are, for black coal, 400 years; for brown coal, 444 years, for oil only 14 years and for natural gas about 170 years. This country- and the world indeed- has to throw its mind to the matter of whence is coming our source of energy for continuing production and indeed a continuing way of life at a satisfactory human level. If one visits Japan and sees the great dependence on energy in that country the factors of energy demand are very forcibly brought home. Not only are the Japanese almost completely dependent on sources of oil for continuing industrialisation; they are also dependent on oil for the total wellbeing of their community. The oil crisis of 3 years ago created such a situation in Japan that the Japanese community was faced with a position of continuing decline in its industrial development and way of life. Japan needs to ensure a continuous, steady, reliable supply of energy. The implication, I think for Australia and the world, is a concentrated plan of energy conservation. It seems futile to me that in Western Australia 95 per cent of energy needs are met from oil. Hospitals and factories throughout Western Australia burn oil in their furnaces. This applies throughout the major cities of the Eastern States of Australia to a lesser extent. We are  not  conscious of what we are doing with the precious energy that we receive from our own wells and the precious energy that lies beneath the ground. 

 President Carter expressed the matter clearly in the last few days when he said that there is the moral equivalent of war within the United States of America. The  President  is seeking to conserve energy by reducing by 2 per cent the demand for energy that is made each year in that country. He states clearly that the cost of energy will keep going up. He said: 
Six years ago, we paid $3,700m for imported oil. Last year we spent $36,000m-nearly 10 times as much- and this year we may spend $45,000m. 
He went on to say: 
If we wait, then our factories will not be able to keep our people on the job with reduced supplies of fuel. Too few of our utilities will have switched to coal, our most abundant energy source. 
The  President  clearly sets out for that nation something that all nations in the Western world are facing. In this whole scene what is the place of uranium? In the face of growing shortages where does uranium as a fuel fit in to the total capacity of the world and its energy demands? Somewhere down the line in programs like the Japanese Sunshine program and the massive amount of work going on within the United States there lies the attraction of solar energy, energy from tidal sources, energy from geothermal sources and perhaps even from fusion. At best estimate Australia leads the world in many aspects of solar energy production. Research indicates that the capacity to produce a significant amount of energy from these sources is perhaps 20 years away- maybe 25 years away. The capacity to produce significant amounts of energy from geothermal or tidal sources may be 30 years away and from fusion it may be as far as 50 years away. It would seem that in the short term the world is indeed suffering some sort of energy crisis. If this energy crisis continues and at no time is regard given to it by Australia and other nations the future looks bleak. I quote from an interesting article published in the  Australian Financial Review  by the columnist Chanticleer. After visiting America he stated: 
Like Australia, America has vast reserves of coal- some people say 300 years supply on the basis of present usage. Right up to the 1950s coal was the key source of fuel for the country outside motor vehicle usage. 
But in the post war years it was overtaken by clean natural gas which was priced cheaply so that everyone simply squandered it. Now production is declining and Americans realise that this was their most valuable fuel which should have been listed at the highest possible price so that it would be conserved and only used for special purposes. 
He goes on to say that if the proper use had been made of these fuels, there would be more to use at the present time. He concludes by saying that unless the red tape is cut through on at least coal, the forecast for 1985 comes closer to reality. He puts the proposition very clearly. There have been articles such as the CIA report on Australian capacity for oil production, and the energy crisis and many other comments in papers and columns of recent days. 
Nuclear power concerns many people. They are fearful of the repercussions of a nuclear war. They are fearful of the repercussions of the difficulties of nuclear waste disposal. In this regard, the present Government, indeed the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  wrote to  President  Carter recently and requested  President  Carter's active consideration of the matter of nuclear power and the disposal of nuclear waste.  President  Carter replied to the Prime Minister also indicating his concern in this matter. I should like to read to the House one paragraph of the President's letter. It states: 
As you are aware, we are currently making a comprehensive review of U.S. non-proliferation policies. Among other things, we are actively examining ways to provide guaranteed fuel supplies to countries which are willing to accept constraints consistent with our non-proliferation objectives. This will help to reduce proliferation by giving nations an incentive to place their nuclear facilities under international safeguards and not to acquire sensitive nuclear facilities . . . 
The letter goes on in similar vein. There seems to be some basic agreement on and some expression of concern for the future use of nuclear power between the 3 nations producing uranium- Australia, Canada and the United States of America. I think Australia has a very great challenge to take up the guidelines that were presented by the Government to the Ranger inquiry, the guidelines which expressed the Government's concern about the future of uranium and the future of its control. At the same time it indicated the importance of uranium as a fuel source in the world 's overall supply. 
I put it to the Australian people that the use of uranium may be a short term need in the total scene of the world 's energy requirements. It is a step that cannot be taken lightly or easily. It is a step that must be taken with a deep concern for future generations and a future capacity to control the use of that commodity and its byproducts. Therefore the challenge before this nation and the Government of this nation, above all else, is first of all a willingness to conserve energy and a willingness to make sure that those sources of fuel which cause less concern are spread evenly and used to the best advantage. Australia also has an important role to develop new technology in the use of many alternative types of energy. Indeed the Minister has indicated that he is most concerned to see a continuing capacity for Australian scientists and technology to stay in the forefront of world development. 
We have a further responsibility- it is probably the most important of the lot- to be active in world scenes and in world forums ensuring that the future use of this precious, this difficult, this dangerous commodity is such that future generations are safeguarded. Only by being active in world forums can we play this part. Only by being active in world forums will anyone say that Australians are prepared to consider this matter seriously. If we withhold these resources indefinitely we will have no capacity to speak on the world stage. We must ensure that our own commodity is used by those nations which would use it to best advantage. We must ensure that it is used by those nations which will recognise the need for safeguard provisions. We must ensure that always our voice is heard on the world forum. This is one role that Australia can play on an international stage without fear or favour. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has proposed an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Housing Loans Insurance Amendment Bill 1977. The Government cannot accept the amendment because it is trifling, petty and inoperable. The Housing Loans Insurance Amendment Bill proposes to make changes to the role of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation so that the Corporation becomes a competitive and more effective body. The amendment proposed by the Opposition puts it before the House that the Opposition grudgingly supports the Bill and the changes to be made to the Corporation but that if only given the chance the Opposition could have made a series of amendments that would have been truly visionary. 
What is the Opposition suggesting? Firstly, that the Government is reducing present and future capital of the HLIC. Since it began in 1 965 the Corporation has accumulated roughly $ 12.7m in its general reserve. This is about only 0.6 per cent of the face value of all contracts that are covered by the Corporation. The Bill proposes that the Corporation pay income tax, as do its 3 competitors, for the year 1976-77, that the Corporation pay an interim dividend and, finally, that the Corporation pay an initial advance repayment to the Treasury. The tax bill for the Corporation in 1976-77 will be $4.5m. The dividend that it will pay to the Treasury- at this stage it is of an interim nature- will be $300,000 and is likely to be $500,000 for the full financial year. The repayment to the Treasury, which is the establishment cost of the Corporation, is to be $200,000. In all, these payments that are proposed under the Bill total $4.5m and when made will leave $8.2m of capital reserve in the capital account and general reserve of the Corporation. 
I cannot understand or follow the proposition put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Does he propose for instance in his loosely worded amendment that all of the capital be used so that $ 12.7m is paid out? I suggest to the House that then there would be no contingency fund left for the Corporation to cover some of the claims that may be made upon it. The $ 12.7m would build about 630 homes only. Would these 630 homes be constructed by the 34 employees of the Corporation or is the Opposition proposing by its amendment that instead of paying the $4.5m to the Consolidated Revenue Fund, this amount alone should be used in a different capacity? The $4.5m would indeed build 225 homes- not a very significant contribution to the home building industry in Australia. This is not a significant amendment. It is not one that would achieve a great deal for home builders in Australia, nor would it lift the status of the Corporation if implemented in the way the amendment outlines. 
I do not know whether in fact, as the Opposition intends it, the amount to be paid out by the Corporation were used in housing construction, or whatever its proposals are, it could contribute much at all. For instance, in this year's Budget total payments to the States in the housing area alone are something like $349m. Is the Opposition seriously proposing that $4.5m to the States in the welfare housing area is a significant amount of money? Is the Opposition proposing that the Corporation should have no reserves to call on in a time of emergency? Is it proposing, according to the words in the proposed amendment, that the actual cash in hand or surplus gathered by the Corporation at the rate of about $lm a year- over the 12 years the Corporation has put together $ 12.7m, which is roughly $ 1 m a year- be used to assist in the housing industry or does the proposed amendment suggest that because of the Corporation's future capacity it would be able to influence the direction of capital? Is the Opposition seriously putting to the House the proposal that the HLIC should say to those people lending money that they should lend it and be insured by the Corporation only under certain conditions? Does the Opposition want the Corporation to set the limits of capital to each individual, to set the interest rates and the terms of payments? Is this proposal of the Opposition for the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation? 
This would be one of the woolliest amendments that this House has seen. It is so generalised and unspecific that I would suggest that it has been proposed for the purpose of moving an amendment, not to make a constructive contribution to the housing industry and the capacity of people to buy their homes in Australia today. Does the Opposition seek to have the HLIC deal in the market? Does it want the Corporation out in the market place calling the shots and in some way settling completely the financial scene in regard to interest rates and capital in the housing area or is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition confusing this Corporation with the previous corporation that he established? The role of the 2 bodies is completely different. There is no way that this body that we are talking about tonight in relation to this Bill can do what it was proposed the Australian Housing Corporation would do. I really believe that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition thinks the Corporation can control funds and interest rates and can tell lending institutions how much and on what conditions they may lend. It is a most impractical approach. Perhaps the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition seek to set up another organisation, of which we have seen so many, which would fiddle with things, build about itself a huge bureaucracy, go into all walks of life and seek to confuse and to duplicate. 
The HLIC basically has been established for specific purposes. It insures lenders against losses on housing loans. In general, the HLIC insures a contract and covers a lender against the loss of all amounts secured by mortgage. That includes unpaid principal, accrued interest, the cost of repairs and maintenance and selling and legal expenses. The cover also enables a lender to make loans above convential loan on valuation ratios without risk of loss. The Corporation also assists lenders to make loans that fall outside of normal lending limits because of the location, age or type of construction of a house. The Government is intending to extend the capacity of this Corporation in those areas. By these amendments to the legislation it will achieve that. The woolly-headed type of approach that the Opposition has adopted in this instance will contribute nothing to the capacity of the organisation. There is no way in which the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation could do what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition's amendment proposes. The Government intends to press forward. In fact, it intends to increase the capacity, the influence and the efficiency of this Corporation. 
Let us talk about the efficiency of this fine body. It has a staff of something like thirty-four. It is Australia's largest insurer of housing loans. Since commencing business the Corporation has insured 2 1 5 000 loans valued at almost $3,000m. It is a small organisation that has been set up effectively, that has operated efficiently and that has had a great impact upon the housing industry in Australia. The Government is now moving forward to make it competitive in the real sense of the word and to extend the capacity of the organisation. In 1975-76 the HLIC established a record in the value of loans insured. The total of $80 1.1m was over $200m greater than the previous peak, which was achieved in 1972-73. That previous peak was $5 86m. To give some indication of how effective this organisation has been, I point out that it took 7 years to do the first $ 1,000m worth of business; it took  2lA  years to do the second $ 1,000m worth of business; and it took only 17 months to do the third $ 1,000m worth of business. It would seem that the demands upon this organisation and its effectiveness have demonstrated its usefulness in the Australian housing market. 
When looking at the huge turnover of the organisation one must also take into consideration the outlays or losses incurred. In 1975-76 the Corporation outlayed $624,856 in the settlement of claims on only 26 properties. For only 26 properties in the whole year were the mortgages taken over by the HLIC as an alternative to the selling of those properties by the lenders. Some of those loans could result in losses if the properties have later to be sold. Provision has been made for that in the amount of $385,000. The Corporation has a huge turnover; yet its losses are comparatively small. It is a very effective and successful organisation. The HLIC covers mortgages and in that way gives greater confidence to borrowers and the market place. It brings about stability and provides a better capacity for people to purchase. The small staff and the capacity of the organisation have been proved time and time again since the organisation's establishment in 1965. 
The amendments contained in this Bill propose that the HLIC be authorised to insure, first of all, loans made by the Commonwealth or a State or by an authority of the Commonwealth or a State other than a bank. They also extend the capacity of people to borrow for home improvements, which loans are not secured by mortgage. There will be a real capacity for people wishing to extend their homes and to make renovations and improvements, of which there is a great deal going on at the present moment. There will be protection for the lender and protection for the borrower; so that there will be real stability, effectiveness and confidence within the market place. The amendments to the legislation will permit the advance of loans to buy land where the Corporation is satisfied that a borrower intends to construct a dwelling on the land. That is not possible at present. The changes that are to be made in this area will have widespread effects in the housing and construction industry of this country. Loans made by investors that are subject to management by a lender will be approved by the HLIC and loans made against residents' licences in Victoria also will be covered. They are improvements and extensions. 
The Corporation must have a capacity; yet at the same time we have the Opposition seeking to take away all of that capacity and seeking to take away all of those profits and the substantial base upon which an organisation such as this can grow. I think that the Opposition 's amendment is one of the most incredible and most thoughtless amendments that we have seen, because it does not come to grips with what this organisation does and what it will be doing under this proposed legislation. In keeping with the policy statement made by the coalition parties at the last election, the HLIC will be able to underwrite a higher percentage of a mortgage. The amendments to this legislation propose the elimination of the limits on insurable loans. Therefore, people will have the capacity to go out and borrow as much as they need and be protected. Lenders will have confidence in the fact that their security is established and protected by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
At the moment the Corporation may not insure loans in excess of 95 per cent of valuation. Whether lower income borrowers will be able to obtain 100 per cent loans will depend upon the willingness of lenders to make them rather than upon the availability of insurance; but the Corporation will cover 100 per cent of money borrowed on the valuation of a property. These amendments are highly significant. They are sure to have a widespread impact upon the housing industry. They fit in with the Government's general policy in the housing area. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has taken many fine initiatives that have been of benefit to the home buyers of Australia. 
Government supporters-  Hear, hear! 
I can hear support coming from this side of the House, but honourable members opposite are completely silent. They know that they have no answer to the proposition that I have put to the chamber; that is, that the Minister has just put another very fine feather in his cap with these amendments to the legislation covering the HLIC. The homes savings grant scheme, for instance, was a commitment at the last election. It came into operation for the first time in January. The House will remember that it was established by  Senator Ivor  Greenwood soon after this Government came to office. The scheme contained very persuasive and very generous provisions for first home buyers. 
It is restoring home ownership, as my honourable friend has said. The scheme not only restores home ownership but also backs that up with tax deductibility for interest paid in the first 5 years. A double package has been most thoughtfully provided by this Government. The HAVE scheme- the housing allowance voucher experiment scheme- is about to commence. This program will allow government to assess what is happening to renters. The Government will be able to provide, more sympathetically, welfare housing. More importantly the program will allow such housing to go to those people really in need. Henderson, in his report on poverty, has demonstrated that probably only a small fraction of those people in welfare homes have the capacity to pay for such cheap housing. We need to find out exactly what is happening. What does happen to funds paid to renters? The housing allowance voucher experiment will be a thoughtful program that will allow people a freedom in the market, a freedom to go out and rent the place they want and not to be squeezed into some suburb or home which is desided for them by their housing trust or housing commission. This is what dignity is all about and this is what the capacity to make new suburbs really work is all about. The Government recognises this requirement and has done something. It has seen the need for a good program, a large program, albeit an experimental program, which will lead to lasting results in the welfare housing area. 
I think that the Home Builders Account and the general housing agreement will be coming up for discussion in the next few weeks. The Minister has had his first talks with State Ministers. The proposals that I know he is dealing with and the discussions that he is having with State Ministers will also reflect his capacity to bring forward effective programs in housing and welfare for the home builders, the home buyers and the home renters of Australia. 
It seems to me that the proposition put by the Opposition is thoughtless and badly considered. It is one that this side of the House completely rejects. The Opposition would seek to destroy this fine organisation rather than to expand its capacity to help people putting blocks of land together, for people putting extensions on their homes and for people seeking to borrow and to be protected in their future. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  ignored this matter completely in his speech. In fact members of the Opposition have not grasped the problem of home building in Australia. When they do grasp this problem perhaps they will have something to say that will be worth listening to. So far they have said nothing. 
It is always a pleasure to hear the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who has just resumed his seat, speak in the House on the subject of education. He brings a real contribution to the debate and offers worthwhile comments at every stage. However, I must disagree with him to some extent in the remarks he made about the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  He is a young member of the House who I find to be active and concerned. He is a young member of the House who shows his capacity and his contribution in debate. I trust that the honourable member for Fremantle will forgive somebody who has not had the length of service or held the offices that he has held for putting forward in the way that he did a fine argument and some very relevant facts. I felt it was a little ungenerous of the honourable member for Fremantle to detract from what the honourable member for Kingston said in the way that he did. 
The House is debating a number of Bills, three of which increase the supplementation to tertiary education in Australia. The States Grants (Universities Assistance) Amendment Bill amends the States Grants (Universities) Act 1967 and the States Grants (Universities Assistance) Act 1976 to adjust the approved programs of grants paid to State universities for the years 1976 and 1977 respectively. The Bill maintains the real value of the grants approved by the Government in the light of known variations in costs since adjustments were made in the Budget sitting of the Parliament last year. I remind the House that despite many of the comments made by honourable members opposite, it has been the Government's firm commitment to increase the expenditure on education. Despite many adversities in other areas, the Government has reversed the attitude and the previous commitment by the former Labor Government in the education field. 
I remind the House that in 1977 we reversed the Australian Labor Party policy of cut and freeze in education. We reversed it to give a 2 per cent growth in real terms to universities, a 5 per cent increase in real terms to colleges of advanced education, a 7.5 per cent increase in real terms to technical and further education and a 2 per cent increase in real terms to schools. An effort has been made by some honourable members opposite and by some individuals in the community to mislead the people as to what the Federal Government has done. I think that is very unfortunate because it arouses a false expectation based on a fallacious argument. The Government has made a commitment to improve the area of education and is following through that commitment in a very active and constructive way. 
It is of particular interest to me that an increasing emphasis has been placed on technical education. I was the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties when that Committee was in operation. In discussions I had I became very much aware of some of the fine work being done in the technical education field. Some of the problems of technical and further education were brought to notice by the  Chairman  of the Technical and Further Education Commission at a conference held in Canberra recently. I think that people working in technical education see some of the deficiencies of the education system more than people working at other levels of the tertiary education field. The simple life tasks and skills that are sought to be learned by people attending school must be carried forward into their further education programs if they are to be effective in those programs. Indeed you,  Mr Speaker,  drew to the attention of the House the shortcomings of some areas of education. Much work has taken place since then. It is these life skills, a capacity to communicate and a capacity to undertake further education that has been the concern of the  chairman  of the Technical and Further Education Commission. 
It has caused much difficulty at the college here in Canberra to find that before entrants to trade courses could successfully undertake their courses, 40 per cent of them needed remedial education in mathematics. It was also found by the Canberra Technical College that 20 per cent of secretarial entrants needed remedial courses in English. It is a most unfortunate state of affairs that in order to earn a living students must further learn skills that it is assumed are acquired in the primary and secondary schools. An ability to perform the simple life tasks and a capacity to earn a living when completing trade courses or courses of skill at technical colleges must be the prime objective of those institutions. I trust that the Government, over the period of its next term of office- over the next 5 years- will give great attention to the importance of technical and further education and the role which can be played by technical colleges and colleges of further education to provide life skills and, in fact, to provide people with a basic background of competency that must be vocationally based. That is the purpose of the institutions. It should be the objective of the whole system. 
I think that one thing that should be examined by the Government in this area is an assessment of the material used by people in everyday life in order to earn their living or to otherwise exist in society. I refer to things like bank accounts, hire purchase agreements and all those little measures that a family man or an individual must be able to complete successfully to have a satisfying existence in our complicated modern community. I refer not only to bank accounts but also to insurance, the capacity to take part in pleasure, and the capacity to earn a living by being able to drive a motor car. All these things require some level of literacy and numeracy skill that should be provided within the education system. Many of the forms and documents that an individual is required to fill out in our society are far too complicated. I am told that a person needs a reading age of 17 years to be able to comprehend a hire purchase document. A reading age of 20 plus is needed to comprehend a life insurance policy, whatever that may mean. These are relative terms and I do not think they can be really measured in a way that is satisfactory. What is implied is that a very high level of skill and comprehension must be available to a person entering into these agreements. 
The National Roads and Motorists' Association of New South Wales has issued what it calls a 'down to earth insurance policy' that can be understood by the layman. Much work could be done in simplifying these day to day requirements that face members of the public. However, that does not detract from the important emphasis that must be placed by the education system on the skills off numeracy and literacy. The colleges of advanced education which are receiving additional funds under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education Assistance) Amendment Bill are responsible for teacher education.  Dr Elkins  who was an adviser to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties conducted a survey of colleges of advanced education throughout Australia.  His  work indicated that the range of time spent by those colleges teaching teachers the art of reading in an effective way so that they could communicate that art to students varied between 2 hours and 78 hours of compulsory course work. This is a minimal amount and should be investigated by those colleges. I know that many of them are starting to throw emphasis on training their teachers in a way that will be most effective. However, the International Reading Association sets a minimum time of something like 150 hours for teachers to acquire these skills. 
I know that it would suit the House to terminate this debate shortly. It is a wide and interesting topic. The funds that are being allocated to tertiary institutions-technical and further education institutions and universities- should be applied in such a way that those institutions look at what they are accomplishing and at the requirements of the community rather than drift so far from those basic requirements that the institutions are no longer effective. 
-The Minister for Transport will be aware of the  Major Airport  Needs Study for Sydney. I ask him: What are the options on which the MANS committee will make recommendations? When will the Committee be reporting? Over what period of time will it be seeking comments from the public? 
-Does the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development expect the implications of the rise in April approvals for house building to be sustained in the industry generally? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications upon notice, on 2 May 1977: 
1 ) Since the establishment of the Australian Postal Commission how many unofficial post offices (a) have closed and ( b ) have been opened. 
Do these figures represent -a change in the pattern existing prior to the establishment of the Commission. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the proportional levels of unemployment in each of the States as a percentage of the workforce. 
What are the reasons for the level of unemployment in New South Wales and the difference between New South Wales and other States. 
What age groups and skills have been particularly affected. 
Has this pattern varied over the past S years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Construction. Has the Minister's attention been directed to recent reports that industrial stoppages have declined and that working days lost through industrial disputes have fallen by 30 per cent on the 1976 figures? Do those figures also apply to the building and construction industry? If so, can we expect an improvement in that industry's stability, increased investment and confidence, and increased employment opportunities in the building and construction industry? 
-We have been treated to an interesting exercise by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  relating to the incidence of leukaemia and accidents that may occur in uranium mines. The honourable member does the House a disservice by not relating the average incidence of leukaemia in the population of the United States of America. An examination of that would reveal that there is no change in the incidence of leukaemia whether or not atomic tests are being carried out. If the honourable member investigated the accident level in coal mines in Australiahe should well know that- he would find that in the early days of coal mining in this country there were far more accidents than there have been in uranium mines in the United States. Let us have some relevances and some sense in this argument. It seems to me that one can be too easily impressed with emotive arguments that are completely unconnected with the issue before the House today. One can quote out of context all sorts of things relating to cancer and leukaemia but if one tracks down the authenticity of those comments one finds that they are not connected in any way with the problems of uranium and nuclear energy. 
Leaving that to one side, one must admit that there is concern in the community about this matter of nuclear energy, where we are going as a nation and where the world is going in relation to energy sources. Above all it is my opinion that we must conserve transportable fuels. The world's capacity to maintain productivity and a level of economic co-operation is such that transportation and the movement of goods and services internationally and within countries is connected with scarce commodities that are quickly running out. If one refers to the Ranger inquiry one can see that the life of the world's oil reserves is roughly 39 years and that of gas, 55 years. These figures, of course, are dependent on an equal capacity for every nation to gain a supply relative to its needs for those commodities. 
The Australian scene, however is one of concern. There are only about 14 years of known supplies of oil left in this country. If we are to continue to operate economically, if we are to continue to trade and if those countries dependent on trade for their wellbeing are to remain viable, the conservation of transportable fuels must be the number one priority when one looks at the world scene. The concern of the  President  of the United States of America was such that on 18 April he was prompted to announce a national energy policy. The  President  warned of a national catastrophe unless the Administration's energy policy was accepted by the nation. The  President  detailed the specific goals he wanted to achieve by 1985. The goals were: To reduce the annual growth in energy demand to less than two per cent; to reduce America's gasolene consumption by 10 per cent; to reduce by 50 per cent the proportion of oil which is imported into the United States; to establish a United States petroleum reserve of one billion barrels of oil; to increase coal production in the United States; to insulate 90 per cent of homes and new buildings in the United States; and to use solar energy in more than 2.5 million United States homes. That is the concern that the American people have for the value of oil and oil products. 
If one is to do an equation, if one is to evaluate from where the world is to obtain its energy, one is left with the problem of a shortfall in the static supply of energy for the next 20 to 30 years. Under the circumstances the only alternative for industrial development, industrial wellbeing and in fact the progress of industrial nations and with them the progress of developing countries is the development of uranium as a fuel source. Australia has a great responsibility to the rest of the world to see that its progress and development is not hindered by a restriction in energy sources. 
One can look at a country close at hand. Japan is dependent absolutely on the importation of fuel and one can assess very readily what would happen if fuel supplies to that nation were cut off. Japan has only its manpower and technology to sell to the world. It is dependent on its technological capacity and the skills of its people to remain a viable and prospering country. If that country cannot keep the wheels of industry turning, if it fails to continue in the direction in which it started in 1950, Japan will have to make a choice of either acquiring fuel by force or being prepared to adopt a gradual lowering in its standard of living. This is the judgment we must face as a nation: Are we prepared to be party to a decision that will in fact encourage a lowering in the standard of living of developed countries? The moral judgment is not whether to use uranium but whether we dare retain to ourselves the use of uranium and whether we should use it as a vehicle of diplomacy to prevent the development of other countries? 
The energy policy that is now being formulated and presented by the Government is a most comprehensive one. It takes not only the aspects I have canvassed into consideration but it also considers the wider aspects of conservation, the wider aspects of alternative fuel sources and the wider aspects of the wellbeing of the Australian community. The Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  announced that the Government, in co-operation with the States, is considering an offer from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and German private companies to share the cost of a $3m study of the economic and technical feasibility of a plan to convert coal to 10 per cent liquefied petroleum gas, 45 per cent motor spirit and 45 per cent diesel oil. That is a recent initiative by this Government. 
The Government has also decided that as resources flow from the development of uranium additional funds will be allocated to the development of effective solar energy alternatives. This is an area in which our scientists and technologists are to the forefront in world terms. The use of uranium and the additional capacity to develop alternative fuel sources that uranium will give us is something that must be encouraged by this Government and something which all members of this House should applaud. I hear nothing from the Opposition of the Government's commitment to alternative fuel sources, its commitment to develop solar energy and its commitment to develop pollutant free energy sources. 
The Government is also conducting a survey of Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities. The survey has already commenced. State governments, universities and private companies will be approached so that the most effective use of the nation's research resources and the most effective way in which we can proceed to conduct research into alternative fuels can be detailed. In regard to energy conservation, the House will be aware that the Government took an important step in the Budget to raise the price of indigenous crude oil to appropriate levels. It is hoped that by this measure the use of Australian oils will be modified to purposes that are of proper value to the nation. It would seem to me that the practice of wasting oils, as we do in Australia, has to be curtailed. Our program to conserve fuel, together with the sale of uranium, has given us a potential to play a part in the world forum. We could stand on the sideline, so to speak, and not participate. If we do we cannot expect to influence or to control. We cannot expect our voice to be noted if we are to stand back in the world forum. As a participant in the production of energy and as an important production source we can in the world forum present to other nations a responsible attitude in respect of the control and the non-proliferation of uranium for harmful purposes. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  recently spelt out his stand as to what sort of international controls he would view as being necessary for Australia to enter into world markets. Although the Leader of the Opposition did not oppose mining at that time, he put stringent conditions on exports which he said would at the very least include certain features. The Government has in fact exceeded those features and requirements placed on the export of uranium by the Leader of the Opposition. In fact the Leader of the Opposition presented a very faulty proposal comprising five points that Australia should adopt for the control of uranium and nuclear fuels. The Government in its presentation has decided to exceed all those requirements in bi-lateral and multi-lateral agreements which absolutely preclude the possibility, as far as is humanly possible, of the wrongful use of uranium. In fact energy deficient countries are looking to Australia. We possess about 20 per cent of the world 's low cost proven uranium reserves. To become a regular supplier and to assist these countries through this period of transition Australia has the potential to become a net energy exporter in thermal terms equivalent to that exported by Iran. Bearing in mind the world energy situation and Australia's role as an energy rich nation, is it responsible to talk, as the Opposition does, of withholding this capacity from the rest of the world? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  set out the key points in his announcement to the House when he said that Australia should not deny to the world the potential that we have here. Australia has an effective voice in strengthening safeguards and non-proliferation measures and we should use it. We should accelerate moves to prevent the development of the plutonium economy and its proliferation and we should not abandon the world's energy-poor countries, some of which are our major trading partners and near neighbours. We should not deny Australia significant economic possibilities and benefits. 
It has been interesting to watch the Opposition dealing with this matter of uranium. In this Parliament in May 1 975, just over two years ago, the then Prime Minister  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said this: 
Those uranium deposits which do not concern Aboriginal lands and mining of which complies with proper environmental conditions into which public inquiries are about to take place will of course be available for export and in due course for processing within Australia. 
In February of the same year he said: 
In Brussels, London, The Hague, Paris, Rome and Bonn as well as in Moscow, I consistently asserted Australia's wish to develop her own enrichment capabilities so that as much uranium as possible should be exported in an enriched form. 
The Australian Labor Party has changed its view. It has changed its view without participating in a public debate. It has hardened in its point of view from the time when it was saying that there should be a public debate. From the beginning of this year, irrevocably, step by step, the Labor Party has decided to oppose this issue without proper debate. 
-The speeches we have heard from the other side of the House are completely unconvincing. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  who has just resumed his seat seemed to be completely unconcerned about the level of unemployment He talked about extending the Public Service and extending the Australian Government services. It is a tired old approach that the Australian people have experienced. They experienced it for three years and then decided that they were absolutely sick and tired of it because they as individuals received no personal benefit. They were restricted in what they could do. The resulting huge additional take in taxation meant that they as individuals and as families had no capacity to be self-sufficient and had a limited capacity to seek employment. 
If we look at the 12 months that have just passed and look at the Government's record we see that the Government's Budget last year finished the year completely on target. The Government's commitment to reduce the deficit was within one per cent of the target. I am sure that any manager of any household in Australia would recognise that, to achieve a deficit within one per cent of an assessed goal, is a fine achievement and something that few managers could fulfil. But the Government has fulfilled it. The Government made a commitment to reduce inflation. It said that it would like to see inflation at about 10 per cent to 1 1 per cent at the end of the year. We started the year with a level of inflation of 15.4 per cent and finished the year with a level of 10.3 per cent. Figures now coming forward indicate that even within the last couple of months there has been a significant drop in inflation, so apparently we now have one digit inflation, which is something of which the Government and all members on this side of the House are proud. 
If we look at the capacity within the community to go out, to explore, to find new challenges, we see that company profits are up by 23 per cent in 12 months. To many people company profits indicate that a few individuals alone gain the benefit of those profits. That is certainly not so. A small number of indiividuals do not gain the benefits of company profits. They are spread through the community. They mean employment, training and prospects for young people leaving school. Profits mean jobs, and this is one of the objectives of the present Australian Government. Hand in hand with increased profits goes increased overseas investment in Australia. We believe that at this stage overseas interests in Australia are running at the highest level since 1972. This indicates a confidence and a willingness by other people to show their confidence in Australia by putting their money here and by saying: 'We believe that Australia has prospects. We believe that Australia has a future. We believe that the Australian people can see the way ahead and will accept the challenges of new and exciting prospects in all fields'. 
But of course the Government's major thrust during the last two years- again it is evident in the Budget- has been its commitment to controlling inflation. Without the control of inflation there can be no proper management at an individual or family level or at a government level. For instance, increased funds for State and local government go much further if inflation is low. If inflation is running at 16 per cent and if local government receives an increase of 20 per cent in its funding it has a real growth of four per cent, but if inflation is running at 10 per cent it has a 10 per cent real growth. That is what happens when inflation is reduced. The capacity of every individual or government is increased dramatically. That is why this Government places so much emphasis on controlling inflation. This means that the average proportion of a weekly wage that is expended on food and other necessary items is more stable and goes further. A commitment of a certain amount of money a week will provide the necessities and the luxuries with far less strain on the family. This is why the Government is committed to retaining and restraining inflation. 
Linked with the constraint of inflation must of course be the constraint on the demand for increased wages, as people should recognise. The tax scales that have been introduced by the Government this year, to my mind, give rise to much thought. A $3 a week tax cut is equivalent to a $4.60 a week wage rise. Under those circumstances tax cuts are more substantial indeed than wage rises because the individual receives all of that money. Nobody is taking anything out of it. He can use it himself. I repeat that a $3 tax cut is worth a wage rise of $4.60. We should not fail to recognise that for many people in the community decreased taxation means- if one looks at the scales prepared by the Taxation Office- that people with dependants or with a dependent spouse will receive tax cuts of something like 18 per cent or 19 per cent after 1 February. That is highly significant. The people receiving those tax cuts are benefiting far more than if they had received a wage rise of a similar amount. 
Decreasing wage demands have been one of the reasons why there is a greater stability in the Australian community today. People have seen the fallacy of pursuing increasing wage claims and of making increased demands on employers and government. It benefits them little. If there is a general stability it gives scope for planning and scope to look ahead and achieve individual goals and ideals. The Government has achieved its objectives in many ways but one of the significant ways has been by reducing the size of government and the size of the public sector. By extravagant use of taxpayers' funds we saw a massive growth in the Public Service during the period in which our predecessors were in office. This Government has reduced the Public Service by 12,500 in this year and has made a further commitment to reduce it by 3,000 in the coming year. At the same time I am disappointed to find that State governments have actually increased their public services. There seems to be little commitment by State governments to hold the line that is consistent with the national approach. I am afraid that there appears to be a selfish approach. It is not a commitment to the things that we nationally consider to be important. 
I think that the road back for Australia could be much more easy if the State Premiers, instead of crying out for increased government benefits on the one hand and reduced interest rates on the other, which are completely incompatible, reduced the size of their public services. I think that they would be more responsible and more realistic if they were to adopt techniques similar to the ones adopted by the Australian Government. I urge them to take note of what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech and to look at the areas of payroll tax and workers' compensation. These are the very factors that are denying opportunities to people in the work force. An employer must expend something like $260 a week for his employee to take home $140 a week. These benefits are of no immediate gain to the employee but they are costs to the employer. They are long term benefits. I am referring to workers' compensation, payroll tax, long service leave and superannuation. They are fine things but the community must recognise that the employer is up for a far bigger bill than employees take home in their pockets. An extension of these concepts and an unwillingness to deal with them by State governments will only delay the resumption of job opportunities. 
As I have said, the deficit is down by $500m in the Budget that was presented on 16 August. Each reduction of this deficit eases the pressure on monetary policy. The Government this year has successfully encouraged housing loans. It has said to the Reserve Bank that any creditworthy borrowers should not be excluded from receiving home loans. The Government has said that there should not be restraint on the capacity of individuals to establish their family home. This is an indication of the Government's commitments along with programs about which the community knows-programs that have been delivered during the past year to encourage people to own their homes and to establish the security and the base for their children which will provide for the citizens of tomorrow an opportunity for wellbeing and an opportunity to look forward with confidence. 
If we look at the new tax scales we find that an additional 225,000 people will be exempted from paying income tax. It is all right to talk about people at the upper end of the tax scales, the upper income earners, but let us look at the lower end. Let us look at the real benefits that will be received by pensioners and people in receipt of a pension plus small superannuation payments. This is where the tax scales will have the most benefit. What Federal member opposite has not had pensioners coming to him complaining about the Hayden Budget and saying: 'Now you are taxing pensioners'? How many pensioners have they had come in? I am sure that they have had hundreds. I know that members on this side of the House have had such complaints. The Government has moved to resolve this problem. 
Another real advantage of the new tax scales is that anyone in the community with the capacity to do so can go out and earn more money without being taxed so heavily. Overtime will become attractive because it will not be taxed at a penalty rate. The same applies to the earnings of people with second jobs. People will be able to take up their opportunities as they find them. In real terms people will get back a total of $ 1,371m in their tax and after February next year the amount will be $l,857m. The people of the electorate of Mitchell alone will be better off in this 12 months by $20m to $30m as a result of the tax scales. Last year they were $ 10m better off. This indicates the commitment of the Government to give people the chance to spend their own money and to make their own decisions. 
In the area of government programs education has been mentioned as being an area in which there have been government cuts. The argument can be presented that there has been no increase in expenditure for education. But no increase in real terms means in fact that the Government could honestly claim there has been an increase in expenditure on education equivalent to the rate of inflation. It is not possible at this time of the year to put a figure on that amount because we do not know what the cost will be. But by the end of 1977-78 taxpayers and the education community will see that the Government, as it did last year, has honoured its word and will retain a capacity for a real stability in education. There will not be cuts and members of the Opposition know that. 
An amount of Sim has been dedicated to the sporting bodies of Australia. I know that there are honourable members opposite who must be interested in this matter. Sporting bodies, whether they are national or State bodies, will now benefit from a sports policy that will encourage Australian athletes and competitors in all sports to compete again in world events in such a way that we can look forward, I hope, to greater prospects of success at the next Olympic Games and in other international competition. 
An area dear to my heart is the handicapped people's area. Handicapped persons are to receive increased benefits of 37 per cent this year. I have not heard any member from the other side of the House decry this increase. This is one of the things they have chosen to overlook. I bring to their attention the Government's concern for people who have difficulties and who face difficulties. I am sure that handicapped people throughout Australia will be most appreciative of this additional benefit. 
Assistance to State governments has been increased by 14 per cent. This increase is more than the rate of inflation which stands at roughly 9.4 per cent. The States will receive an additional 14 per cent to spend as they wish. The State Premiers can say what they wish, but until they accept responsibility, until they stop saying that the Federal Government is keeping them poor, until they say that they will increase the margin of tax they want so that they can carry out their own projects, I am afraid that their cries of poor mouth will be unconvincing. The people of Australia know that the States are being funded at a reasonable level. The States have some small prospects for raising revenue in their own areas. This Government has given them the opportunity to carry out programs that are important to them but not one State government has taken up this opportunity. In fact, the premiers of the Labor States have said: 'We will never take it up'. What an irresponsible attitude. 
There is to be an increase of 18 per cent to 19 per cent in funds allocated to local government to use as it wishes this year. These funds are not tied. As a result local government will have an important opportunity to reduce rates and to carry out works programs. Local government knows that the Government is fair dinkum in this area. It recognises that the Federal Government will support it in respect of tax sharing. It knows that it will get additional funds that will benefit the ratepayers. The total community in fact is starting to support in a significant way local authorities throughout Australia. It is interesting to note that there are peculiar and difficult problems in respect of job prospects in the Sydney area. The Australian people do not benefit from the fact that at the moment about 20,000 people are out of work because of industrial stoppages. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon),  who was the last  speaker  on this debate, knows that this is true. 
Despite the problems of the building industry there are irresponsible individuals whom we all deplore, who would hold the industry to ransom, who would prevent people from working, who would stop people with families from earning a weekly wage because they wish to establish their position of power. It is deplorable that work on huge projects right across the nation in every capital city is not proceeding. Only last week in Victoria the Builders' Labourers Federation rejected an incredibly generous offer made by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and said that its members would stay on strike. A similar situation has applied in New South Wales where the State Government has not taken the matter up. I would have thought that the responsible Ministers there would have seen the building industry as providing an opportunity for jobs. But they have not taken up this opportunity. 
Job opportunities in the western suburbs of Sydney have not been good due to poor planning over many years. The planners must take responsibility here. I am sure that honourable members would agree that provision has not been made for jobs in the planning that has taken place in respect of new suburbs in the western area of Sydney. Encouragement has not been given to industry to establish itself out where the people are living. It is unfortunate that over the l ast week or two the Premier of New South Wales, instead of encouraging industry into the western suburbs has suggested that it go to the Campelltown area. We know that Campbelltown is a growth centre but the greatest amount of unemployment in Sydney is in the western suburbs. This is the place where people want and should get jobs but they are being denied jobs because of the policies of the State Government. I think it is incredible that factories should be forced into the Campbelltown area when the prospects of a stable dedicated work force are there for the taking in the western suburbs. People who want to work- and young people in particular- are being prevented from doing so by some strange and unfortunate policies. 
The difficulties of the last four years have caused a pause in the progress and the security of Australia. Now there is strong evidence that the Government's policies are successful and Phillip Schrapnel and W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd recently indicated their confidence. We are moving ahead to an exciting and challenging future. Our huge resources of minerals and energy appear to have prospects that no country in the world possesses. For our young people the challenge will be unlimited and must be seized upon by them to achieve progress, security and wellbeing. The scope of our capacity to move forward can be limited only by Australians themselves. The role of organisations that are supposed to protect employers-to support them and improve their, livelihood and work conditions- is under question. The two roles of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are also in question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It has been illuminating to listen to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He spoke about economic nonsense. He was the man whom the Labor Party rejected as its Treasurer. It has not taken him back. It rejected him and it has consistently failed to listen to him. He now speaks from the back benches. Everybody in this House respects his integrity and quiet manner except members of his own party. The payments of various descriptions which have been made to the States have continued since the beginning of federation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. 
-Since the Second World War there has been an increasing allocation of funds from the Federal Government for things such as economic and social development to State and local government In 1976-77 financial assistance grants were replaced by an arrangement under which State governments are entitled to a specified share of Commonwealth net personal income tax collections. If we look at the assistance being provided to the States in the table on page 8 of the Treasury document 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities ' we find that the allocation of general purpose funds to States, large State authorities and smaller State authorities has increased by 17.8 per cent. With inflation at the moment at 9.2 per cent or 9.3 per cent that is a considerable growth in real terms. 
The larger authorities which comprise semigovernmental authorities such as water, sewerage and drainage boards and boards of works are receiving an increased loan capacity of 21.3 per cent this year. The borrowing capacity of tocal government authorities has increased by 34.4 per cent Opposition members have moved an amendment which indicates that there has been a reduction in real terms in payments to the States and local government under the terms of the agreement of the legislation we are debating tonight. This is certainly not so. The figures indicate an increase of 17 per cent in loan capacity for State governments, 21.3 per cent for semigovernmental authorities and 34.4 per cent for local government. The Opposition's first point does not stand. The House does not recognise it. 
If funds were reduced in the previous year it is interesting to note that the New South Wales Government almost finished the financial year with a surplus of $45m. It finished the year with a small surplus of $200,000. One wonders what happened to that $45m. 
It was tucked away. It was saved for a rainy day or perhaps an early election. I think that next year we will see an exaggerated works program sponsored by the New South Wales Government with these additional funds from the Federal Government. The increased borrowing capacity of the States has been enunciated by previous speakers. I endorse their comments. Honourable members on this side of the House understand how to read Budget papers. They recognise the increased capacity of State governments. Opposition members say that this proposal has forced the States to reduce the services they provide. How could it? During the last 12 months the States have increased their public servants by 20,000. 
The States have increased, as the honourable member for Braddon says, by four per cent their capacity to give service by way of the staff they employ. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in his amendment, claims to represent the views of the Opposition and understand these matters. Why do honourable members opposite not assess what local governments and State governments are doing? Why do they not look at their accounts, and look at what they are really achieving and at what they are delivering? How can it be that with an increased staff of 20,000 public servants services are decreasing? One would perhaps tend to think that the New South Wales Government might be decreasing its services when one looks at the public transport system in that State. It has a massive deficit of $300m. This is after the Labor Party went to the people claiming, in fact, that one of its priorities as a government would be to improve the public transport services in that State. It has not done so. The dangerous conditions, with derailments still apply. 
We have further statements that the Bill will lead to increased unemployment. This Bill is not related to matters of unemployment. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports, mentioned some programs. I take it he was referring to programs something like the RED scheme. He must recognise the huge expense involved in that program by paying full salaries and making all those arrangements. In fact the honourable member's own Party eventually rejected that program. It was an incredibly imaginative program but an incredibly incompetent one. It did not achieve the objectives. The Labor Party rejected it and all Australians rejected it. They recognised the concept; they rejected the practice. What we need is not greater assistance in the form of loan moneys to State governments but an expanding opportunity and a control of wages, an expanding opportunity for business such as this Government has been able to provide, and also a restriction of the continual wage demands with which we have been pressed in the last few years. 
State governments have consistently expressed the view that over a long period the arrangements which they previously worked under were unsatisfactory. In fact in 1970, the sue States unanimously proposed that they be given direct access to income tax broadly along the lines of the scheme that operated then in Canada. In 1975 they proposed again unanimously that the general revenue grants arrangements should be based on the principle that the States should be compensated for their lack of access to income tax. This principle has been recognised by the present Government. In fact as part of its federalism program it has given and will continue to give the States the opportunity to take up taxation on behalf of their people. 
What is happening at the moment? Through the State Premiers there is a de facto taxing power given to the States. They have a share of taxation which they set. They have a share of 33.6 per cent. By common agreement the Premiers of Australia have agreed to tax the people of their States at that level on their personal income tax. What they need to do, of course, is to admit it and come out and say: 'Yes, we have agreed to a tax level of 33.6 per cent on the people of our States, and we will take up the capacity to extend the level at which we will tax or reduce the level at which we will tax'. It would seem to be sensible that from now on this Government ought to show on tax forms and literature the levels of tax which the Premiers of each State have agreed to accept and to allow the people of Australia to see the increased capacity of State governments to carry out works programs if they wished to take them up. This increased capacity could be reflected in works programs if the people of particular States understood such proposals. One has only to look at the record of all States to see their increased capacity in education and transport, the additional loans they will receive this year, the capacity of local government and the road programs that have been announced. The recommendations should be brought forward strongly to indicate to the Australian people that tax sharing capacity under federalism is something that is beneficial and that will allow a regionalisation of Federal Government policies. It is a possibility that State governments can apply more specifically, economic programs that it is not possible to apply from Canberra, except if one adopts the socialist control of every aspect of human life, of State governments and of local government 
-The legislation that we are considering broadly falls into three categories. The first main section of the Bill deals with the national highways program. Under this program the Minister for Transport declares roads that are national highways or national commerce roads. These roads are roads, as defined in the Bill, that link two or more State capital cities, or a State capital city and Canberra, a State capital city and Darwin, or Brisbane and Cairns or Hobart and Burnie. These national highways are designated to be of national significance- and indeed they are. 
The legislation provides for the allocation of funds for the construction and maintenance of these highways. The Minister specifies standards for roads classified as national highways and he may obtain information from the States as necessary regarding the use or likely use of such roads. Therefore, not only do we in fact have a national priority but also the wishes of the State governments are considered. The Minister determined the works to be carried out and the order of those works. He also determines other administrative arrangements regarding the submission of national highways programs that come from the States for approval. He approves the programs for projects and under this legislation he may approve a multi-stage proposal. Therefore instead, as has been the case, of a mad rush at the end of a financial year to complete programs with the result that often funds are wasted the Minister is capable of extending beyond one year works that were proposed to be carried out in that year. This will give State governments and local authorities- the Bill will apply to all levels of government- a capacity to allow for wet weather, stoppages or shortages-in short, anything that interferes with their works program. 
The flexibility of this legislation is one of its most outstanding features. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  must be commended on being so understanding and co-operative with works authorities responsible for road maintenance and construction. Of course, the Minister has the capacity to revoke or modify notifications and approvals for national highways, should he feel that necessary. 
The next section contained in this Bill is the section dealing broadly with arterial roads. Arterial roads are basically highways and main roads that fall within the State jurisdiction and are the responsibility of State governments. Under this legislation State governments will submit proposals to the Federal government. When the proposals are approved the State sets its own priorities in respect of the expenditure of funds. The approach that has been adopted by the present Government in this respect is quite different for that adopted by the previous Government. The House may remember that, in 1976, proposals were introduced by the present Minister which allowed for flexibility and for a priority setting technique to be adopted by State authorities in respect of road construction and maintenance. State authorities need not only flexibility but a capacity to vary the allocation of funds to different categories of roads within their own system and also to allocate funds as between maintenance and construction according to what they think is the more important for their people. 
State governments are required by this legislation to spend part of their funds in the construction and maintenance of State highways or main roads. An important factor in the legislation as it is now framed is that the Commonwealth cooperates not only with the planning pan of the program but also in the contribution towards the funding of the program. The third section of road categories outlined in this legislation is local roads. These are urban and rural roads which are looked after and maintained solely by local authorities. Local government thoughout Australia has a very great responsibility for a very considerable mileage of roads in the country. In fact it has been put by the Local Government Association of Australia that local government is responsible for about 83.S per cent of the nation's roads. Whether this is an accurate figure or not, the House will agree that the capacity of local roads to handle local commerce and traffic is a vital part of the nation's day to day life. The local roads program is produced for the Commonwealth by the State authorities. State governments, together with local government, set the pattern of expenditure for local roads. These priorities are given to the Federal Government and approved by the Federal Ministers as presented by State authorities. 
All States in Australia have a very different approach to the funding of road programs for local government. Some States, such as my State of New South Wales, provide no funds whatsoever to assist local government with its roads program. Other States adopt techniques to assist local government in its roads programs. I would encourage my State to take a more positive attitude to the significant and increasingly important role that local government is playing in the community. It is claimed by State governments that it is not possible under existing legislation for them to provide funds for local government. A simple stroke of the pen is all that would be required to change that legislation and I think it should be done. However, it is difficult under our system to ascertain exactly the amount of funds that are applied by State governments to local government. This year there have been changes in a number of States. The House will be aware of the changes made by the South Australian Government. Local authorities in that State this year are receiving no additional funds for their local roads. However, the contribution to local authorities from the Federal Government has increased by something like 80 per cent. It would seem that there has been a fiddle of the books if the South Australian Government can get away with a proposition under which it is withdrawing it support to local government. 
-One of the most likely propositions that needs to be considered by the Government and by this Parliament is whether there should be a change in the structure, such as that suggested by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  of the way in which funding may take place to local government. People in local communities need to know where the resources are corning from. They need to assess the priorities placed on the local amenity by the various levels of government. It is not possible, under the present system in many States of Australia where funds are provided by State governments, for anybody to know what funds are being provided and from where they are coming. As I have indicated, in South Australia, despite an 80 per cent increase in funds to urban and local roads, it is not possible for the people there to know that there has been any increase. 
All honourable members and all representatives of the community need to be aware of the definition of roads in this legislation. Included in that definition is a road sign, traffic control equipment, street lighting equipment, a vehicular ferry, a bridge or tunnel, including a bridge or tunnel for the use of pedestrians, a path for the use of persons riding bicycles, a ramp provided to facilitate the launching of boats, and vehicular access from a road to a boat ramp. Honourable members are often told that we deny funds to many areas of State and local government because of definitions in legislation. This certainly is not so in this case. The definitions are broad. In fact if State government wished they could build boat ramps. The Redlands Municipal Council in Brisbane, for instance, has been denied funds and has been told that it cannot get funds. If the State Government were to set a priority for that area it would receive funds. There is no doubt that State governments have a great capacity to do far more than they admit. 
The main changes to this legislation are set out in the memorandum attached to the Bill. The main administrative change has been the establishment of planning committees, if approved by the Federal and State Ministers, as an alternative to existing procedures for the approval of programs which is carried out by correspondence between Ministers. The establishment of planning committees will allow greater understanding at both levels. 
A new category of roads called national commerce roads is included in this legislation. That is a very apt description of roads to which Commonwealth funds will apply. I would press on the Minister for Transport the need for examination of export capacity not only within country areas but in urban areas so that there can be a steady, uninterrupted and efficient flow of export goods through country areas to city areas and into ports and vessels for shipping overseas. One of the huge costs that our exporters incur relates to the problems of moving goods around the cities, in and out of warehouses, on and off vehicles and on and off vessels. This category of national commerce road is a very interesting one to consider in view of the great manufacturing and primary producing industries in this country. 
Omitted from this legislation .are special provisions in the Roads Grants Act relating to the submission of programs for urban arterial roads to the Minister. The Minister does not require in detail the facts that were required by the previous Minister in the previous Government. Included in this Bill is a clause allowing the Minister to seek some information if he feels it is warranted. In view of the circumstances related to the allocation of funds to local government in South Australia, I think that the Minister would be perfectly in order in requesting exact information as to what has happened to funds. Indeed, he might even consider extending that view to some other States. 
What the State governments want from the Commonwealth is broadly outlined in the Bureau of Roads report for 1975. That report contained propositions put by States to the Federal Government of that day. I will read only one of those propositions. It is set out on page 41 under paragraph 3.47. The report states: 
Benefits that can be obtained from close co-operation between all the existing Road Authorities in joint Commonwealth-State efforts should be directed towards achieving solutions; resources should not be dissipated in non-productive studies nor should any attempt be made to duplicate efforts already made by the States. 
That proposition put forward by the States of Australia and contained in the Bureau of Roads report has been carried out by this Government. All the propositions contained in that section, the demands and requests to the previous Government by State governments, have been followed and paid close attention to by this Government. The Government and it supporters can be proud of the change that has taken place in the relationship between various levels of government but particularly between Federal and State governments. 
In relation to local government the Bureau of Roads report at section 3.48 identified one issue of major concern to local government authorities as 'the effects of inflation on their road functions and their inability to combat this problem as it occurs because they derive funds from their own taxing source only annually'. The Government has overcome substantially that problem too. Part of the huge cost placed on local government during the time of the previous Administration was the effect of inflation. This matter is also part of the good management program of this Government; it has been successful in reducing inflation. It has complied with the wishes of local authorities who have responded. The Bureau of Roads also stated in its report that another issue of major concern to local government authorities was 'insufficient recognition that they are directly part of the road industry and are responsible for the greatest length of the road systems'. That has been recognised by the present Government which over the last two years has increased dramatically the funding to local authorities for their road programs. Local government recognises that it is a third partner in the process of providing transport facilities in Australia. This Government was the first government to adopt such a clear-minded approach to recognising the role of local government. 
The Bureau of Roads also stated in 1975 that a third issue of major concern to local government authorities was, 'given the magnitude of their road responsibilities and the many other calls on their own revenue, the inadequacy of financial assistance that they receive from the other levels of government'. Again this Government has moved to increase dramatically assistance to local government. One could compare this performance with that of the previous Minister. The  Financial Review  in a report of Monday 8 September 1975 stated: 
Indeed, as  Mr Jones  himself has conceded on previous occasions, transport problems in our major cities have almost reached the confrontation stage. 
The previous Minister did nothing about them. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns Lebanon. What services are being provided by the Australian Embassy in Beirut? Are they the full functions of an embassy? Does the Minister consider that the Embassy staff will be safe from future disruptions to peace in Lebanon? What is the Government's assessment of the current political and military situation in Lebanon? What humanitarian assistance has the Government made available to Lebanon? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Acting Speaker. 
-The House is debating the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1977. The purpose of this Bill is to obtain the approval of Parliament for the payment to States of advances amounting to $390m in 1977-78 and also of advances equivalent to one-half of that amount during the first six months of the year 1978-79. It also authorises the Treasurer to borrow moneys for the purpose of making these advances. This Bill moves into the area of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement and the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States for the provision of welfare housing and assistance to the States in the housing area. The Commonwealth Government, in the year that expires in June 1978, will have provided $l,734m to the States for home loans for low to moderate income earners. More than 300,000 houses have been constructed for rental or sale since the Agreement was first introduced in 1 945. Concessional home loans for financing the purchase of private homes were introduced in 1956. More than 150,000 families have received these loans. In total, about $4 billion has been provided to the States under the Agreement for which the Bill provides funds. One must assess in this context the total ambit of the Housing Agreement. I draw the attention of the House to an editorial which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 15 February this year. The editorial states: 
Federal Housing Minister Kevin Newman has picked an unpopular but necessary argument with the States in his attempts to reform the Federal-State housing agreement. 
It goes on to say: 

 Mr Newman claims that welfare housing benefits are being misused and the whole system exploited. The only thing the Minister is guilty of is understatement. 
The traditional form of welfare housing in Australia is that the Federal Government channels money to the States, which then use housing commissions as construction and allocation agencies. 
The problem is that once a person gains a housing commission unit he is literally set for life. The rent remains static while the family's income naturally rises over the years. 
It is interesting to note that the article goes on to state: 
Of the 183,000 housing commission tenants in Australia only 5 1,000 would be classified as poor. 
The Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty pointed this up very clearly in its inquiry as to who should be entitled to benefits under the Housing Agreement-benefits that give assistance to families of poor circumstances. The simple and eminently reasonable proposition being put by the Fraser Government is that those housing commission tenants who can afford to pay market rentals should do so. Those still on low incomes should be subsidised and the net effect should be to protect the real poor in housing commission units while making more money available to commissions to increase the housing stock for others in need. 
I refer the House also to a Press release that I saw in the  Australian  on 14 February this year in which it was stated that families earning up to $500 a week are paying only as little as $25 a week for rental under this Agreement. The negotiations that are taking place at the moment to redraw the Housing Agreement are of particular interest to those who seek to provide shelter or accommodation for their families. Under the guidelines that have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States under the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement, it is proposed that the States will receive funds at a basic interest rate of 4Vi per cent per annum but they will loan to agencies at an escalating interest rate, commencing at 5 per cent in the first year but increasing by half a per cent in each subsequent year until a rate equivalent to the long term bond rate is reached. This is where funds are provided for the home ownership assistance scheme and are normally provided to the public through the terminating building societies. The States, under this proposal, can decide which individual borrowers they will choose and they have an ability to adopt a number of flexible lending practices such as interest escalation, deferred repayments or income geared or second mortgage loans. 
The Agreement provides a great flexibility and opportunity for State governments to provide services at a level at which the community is most in need. It is interesting to note in fact that as years have gone by under this Agreement the percentage of average weekly earnings that have been set aside for the payment of interest or repayments under the terminating funds or the home ownership assistance program have declined quite significantly. In 1936 the average loan was $5,300. The repayment per week on the loan which was over 31 years was $6.71 a week. This comprised about 19 per cent of the average weekly earnings when the loan was made but today it is only 3.6 per cent of the average weekly earnings. In loans made in 1976, the average was $18,000. The average repayment was $24 a week, which is about 14 per cent of average weekly earnings. The House will see that those people who received loans in early years and have spent some time repaying these commitments are now paying at a very low rate compared with the rest of the community. Many of these families and individuals benefit greatly by the very generous arrangements that were adopted in earlier years. 
In addition, the concessions for home ownership have increased by the introduction of the housing loan interest tax deductibility for new home builders, the new Homes Savings Grants Scheme- both of which were introduced since the present agreement commenced. But a very significant factor in the proposed Agreement will be the ability of States to accrue funds that they receive from houses which are purchased. Any surplus which the States gather will be put into a home purchase assistance account and, subsequently, re-lent to home seekers. On calculations, this indicates that the States will have a much greater capacity to provide on-going assistancevery substantial assistance- to those seeking to purchase their own homes but whose means are limited. To be eligible for a terminating building society loan, the Government proposes to remove the present means test which was set at 95 per cent of average weekly earnings. This was an arbitrary test and in fact families that were only slightly outside the 95 per cent suffered by not being able to receive a loan. The Government will be encouraged to have regard to family incomes, the size of houses and the assets of the intending borrowers, thus ensuring that assistance is directed properly to those most in need. 
I turn now to the sale of dwellings. The restrictions that were formerly placed on the housing commissions and the housing trusts for the sale of their housing stock will be removed but, under the conditions of the Agreement, they will be allowed to sell for cash at market or replacement price. This will again allow funds to be returned to the Home Purchase Assistance Fund and it will allow stocks to be replaced very simply by the housing commissions and trusts. This mechanism should ensure that waiting lists are not unnecessarily extended and that market prices will permit the States to repurchase existing dwellings in established neighbourhoods, perhaps next door to a house which has been sold, so that the diversity of housing stocks and their siting within particular cities, whether in the fringe areas or the inner city areas, will be maintained. 
In the rental housing area the Government has moved to strike an agreement which is both equitable and fair. Each State will be free to decide which agencies can participate in a rental program. Under the present program the housing commissions or trusts are the major agents. The changes will make it possible for the States to allocate funds to voluntary or charitable housing groups or to local government where those agencies are better able to assist in providing housing services. This is a most flexible and thoughtful approach to the new Housing Agreement. The Bill which we are debating is providing funds for part of this program. Indeed, after June 1978 the first six months of the new program will be covered by this Bill. 
Eligibility to obtain rental housing has been based on a means test of 85 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is proposed that this specific test will be removed to allow some of the existing anomalies I have mentioned to be done away with. However, rental rebates will be paid to those tenants who are on lower income. Many of these tenants are reliant upon Commonwealth social security and welfare payments and, indeed, are in need of assistance in providing a home for their families. In some circumstances, however, as I have mentioned already, long term tenants are paying very low rents for dwellings located in inner suburbs yet their family circumstances and income might have changed dramatically. Therefore, it is the intention of the Government that those people who fall outside the guidelines will pay full market rental. The States will be encouraged to charge full market rental for accommodation and the rental rebates will be given to those individuals who are most in need. 
The new Housing Agreement will be a giant step forward for the Government and for those people seeking to provide their families with accommodation. The  Australian Financial Review  has clearly set out some of the benefits which will flow from such a scheme. But the Federal Government spends more than $900m a year on housing and spending of this magnitude should constantly be evaluated to ensure that the taxpayers' money is being allocated in a fair and efficient way but in such a way that it flows to those people genuinely in need. This is the objective of the proposed Agreement. It is interesting to note that when the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  first announced some of the details which he wished to discuss with State Premiers the Labor States were most reluctant to join in with what should be an objective for all political parties, that is, the provision of housing for those people genuinely in need rather than a continuance of support for some individuals who should not be receiving the very great benefits which are obvious under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. 
The various programs which the Government has introduced will support the initiatives being taken in home purchase and ownership and the rental of housing accommodation. To set the whole housing industry in context in relation to this Bill and the assistance that will be applied to individuals, one needs to refer to the Government's economic policy for the building industry. Inflation is still seen by the Government as the key element in budgetary strategy. The strongly expressed view of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is that real wages are still too high- I think that most honourable members on this side of the House would agree with this- in relation to productivity gains made during the past year. The Government believes that this can best be rectified by the normal processes of conciliation and arbitration so that wage restraint will be followed up and a necessary backup is felt to limit and control money supply. This is because without an accommodating increase in the money supply wage increases will be very difficult to finance. 
If a wage restraint policy is successful in reducing real wages, with some growth in overseas demand for exports the balance of payments can be expected to improve. Indeed, it is improving. This would remove any downward pressure from the exchange rate and would also assist with movements in interest rates and other factors related to the building industry. The matter of interest rates is one that is being watched by many individuals. The strategy for lowering interest rates must be linked with the lowering of inflation. If inflation is brought under control as economic circumstances permit, so interest rates will fall. Even a modest reduction of interest rates would provide some stimulus and assistance for the housing industry. I am very anxious to see that the Government pursues its stated objective, which has been expressed on a number of occasions, of decreasing interest rates so that those people seeking to purchase homes can do so with ease and with benefit to them and to their families. 
Over the past 12 months the housing industry has performed above what was expected this time last year. Approximately 140,700 homes were commenced and 144,400 homes were completed. The forecast last year was that 148,000 homes was the desirable level of construction but the feasible level was set at 138,000 homes. The actual construction was 144,000 homes. This was about 104 per cent of the feasible goal set by the Housing Industry Indicative Planning Council last year. The actual completions represented 106 per cent of the recommended goal and 1 10 per cent of the forecast. So in fact this Government has delivered more than it set out to deliver and more than was recommended by the Indicative Planning Council. I think this is an indication of the Government's concern for the building industry- its concern for people wishing to purchase their own homes. 
It is interesting to note that on 4 August statements appeared in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  to the effect that building projects worth a total of $966m were completed in the Sydney and South Coast areas in the 1976-77 financial year. This represents in terms of value an increase of 61 per cent over the previous year. How is that for performance? All new buildings, homes, and flats, as well as alterations and additions to existing homes, are included in those figures. The number of jobs completed was 30,248, an increase of 34 per cent on the 1975-76 total. The  President  of the Sydney Water Board,  Mr Walder  said that the figures did not show all the money spent on construction. There was an increase of 34 per cent in actual jobs completed and an overall increase of 61 per cent m the Sydney area. Those are official Water Board figures. Within the Parramatta region, Parramatta experienced the biggest building boom of any local government area in Sydney, except Blacktown and Campbelltown. Those areas which are showing the stress of increased population are responding very well to the policies which are being put forward by this Government. It is interesting to notice that today in a further release from the Commonwealth statistician there is an indication of increased lending by building societies. 
-The committee is debating an interesting group of portfolios covering the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. Those three portfolios more than any others in the Fraser Ministry relate to the activities of business and business affairs. This Government has a concern for and supports business, large or small, and seeks to bring fairness to the business world. By means of fairness and encouragement to business alone can jobs be created and, through profits, additional investment, which creates demand for goods and services, can become obvious throughout Australia. 
It is often thought by our opponents that we on ' the Government side have no concern for the average individual who earns a wage or a salary. That is not true. Through the encouragement of private enterprise and the business world, in a sense of fairness, there can be an increased capacity for all Australians. I think our opponents found out that too much emphasis on the public sector was extremely damaging to the well being of all Australians. 
There is a great similarity between small business and primary industry. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  mentioned some of the difficulties that face primary industry in Australia today. The difficulties that he enunciated, the difficulties of making one's way and finding markets and a living in a way that profits are sufficient to sustain the operators of those businesses, are things that most small businessmen would feel applied to them. I think the recent statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  indicates that small business, in manufacturing, wholesale and retail trades, encompasses about 200,000 enterprises employing more than one million people. About 165,000 firms employing about 600,000 people are engaged in the retail and wholesale trade and a further 150,000 enterprises in the building, transport, finance and other tertiary areas, make up the total of small businesses. Overall, excluding primary industry, some 350,000 enterprises are small businesses. They comprise over 90 per cent of the total of all business and employ about 30 per cent, about 2 million people, of the total work force. Small businesses, self employed people, sole traders and small private firms, contribute about 25 per cent of the gross domestic product. 
The need for access to finance, the need to have the capacity to borrow, the need to be able to develop and expand and to use the skills contained in an industry, are things that are vital to both small business and to primary industry. Access to advice, the need to get sound advice from people experienced in a particular field of operation in small business, is something that many entrepreneurs seek. It is not always possible in a fairly narrow field of operation to be confident that one has all the facts in one's possession. Therefore the establishment of small business bureaus in some States of Australia has been advantageous to the small businessman. However, I question the practice of staffing these bureaus and advice giving bodies with young accountant type skills. It would seem to me that there are many competent retired senior businessmen with all the capacity of experience and knowledge behind them who would be more fitted to provide information for small business and guidance to those commencing businesses. 
The diversity of management skills and the diversity of ability within small business gives the basis of all business in Australia a great depth of imagination and a great depth- all types of thoughtfulness and imagination. The inventiveness of individuals that one can draw on from that field must be the well from which the nation can draw its future thrust and the ability to make new decisions as new problems arise. The difficulty of the business world, particularly the small business world and the primary producer, is that people in it are price-takers. They have little capacity to influence the prices they receive for their goods. Therefore their cost of production probably is the real factor that limits their operations and their activities. The ability to borrow and the ability to expand and become a big business instead of remaining a small business depends on the skill of the operator, often the dedication of that operators family and the ability to borrow money at the right terms to progress, to expand and to be successful. 
It is interesting to note the former Government's approach to small business. One's attention is drawn to numerous Press reports during 1975 in respect of the total number of companies in the various States that wound up during the Labor Government's term of office, as well as the number of companies that failed, the number of people who lost their jobs and the number of skills that were lost. One 's attention is also drawn to matters such as the increase to 18c of the standard cost of a postage stamp. All of these decisions seriously affected the small businessman. But our opponents who sit opposite seem completely unaware of the serious effects that resulted from what appeared to be rather minor decisions. Professor Geoffrey Meredith, who is Professor of Accounting and Financial Management at the University of New England, said: 
During the past 1 8 months - 
That is, during the period of the Labor Administration - . . . small businesses in Australia have progressively found difficulty in meeting financial commitments and maintaining profitability. Over the previous decade- within inflation at a fairly steady 3 per cent- 4 per cent a year and growth conditions in the Australian economy- small businesses could survive and even prosper while only earning what would be regarded as a marginal return on investment. 
That indicates the soundness of the present Government's thrust in attempting to bring down the cost of wages and inflation. A businessman paying wages at the average rate of $180 a week net to an employee finds that his bill is $260 if one is to take into account all the factors, including payroll tax, superannuation, long service leave and holiday pay loadings, which are of eventual benefit to the employee but which cost the employer a great deal of money. Neither of the people who are involved in the contract of providing employment or gaining employment really benefit by some of these massive governmental imposed charges. Inflation trebled, taxes doubled and unemployment trebled during the days of the Labor Administration. Notwithstanding this, tonight we heard repeated the same policies that brought about those conditions within Australia. I am reminded of  Dr Johnson's  famous observation that a second marriage is a triumph of hope over experience. It seems to me that the Labor Party wishes in fact to pursue hope without learning from experience. I think it is time that members of the Labor Party stated in this House that they have an understanding of the experience that they have gained. 
The Government has moved to assist small business by a readjustment of Division 7 of the tax scale. But this is not enough at this stage. The 40 per cent investment allowance was of assistance to small business. The trading stock valuation and directive to the Reserve and Development Banks about which we were informed last week are very significant advances designed to assist the small entrepreneur of Australia. I remind the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is at the table that the three departments which are responsible for general policy in this area should take note particularly of the small business field, investigate further changes to Division 7, look at self-employed persons' superannuation and also look at the possibility of creating for sole traders the capacity to be taxed as a corporation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-I  call the honourable member for Denison. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I have called the honourable member for Denison. 
-We are debating the estimates for the Department of Transport for 1977-78. The areas covered by the Transport portfolio are wide and diverse, and in fact affect 20 per cent of the gross national economy. The portfolio encompasses aviation, shipping, the roads programs, and development and research into transport throughout Australia. The Minister who was responsible for this portfolio on the Government coming to office decided that the Government should proceed along lines different from those taken by the previous Government. Previously we had seen the Australian Labor Party pursuing lines of great fascination and great difficulty in the transport areas. I particularly recall to the Committee the InterState Commission that was proposed by the previous Minister. It was a far-reaching and incredible piece of legislation that went far beyond the transport portfolio into every walk of Austraiian life. Not only would it have been used to control transport across State borders, it would also have had the effect of controlling the relationship between business and commerce right across the nation. It was one of the most centralistic pieces of legislation this Parliament has witnessed. Honourable members who were present at that time will remember that the then Opposition refused to accept the proposals that were brought forward by the Labor Party. 
The current Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  changed the approach. Working in the spirit of true co-operative federalism, he has given a freedom to people in all avenues of transport to have a greater say and to set thenown priorities in the development of a national transport policy. If one looks, for instance, at the roads proposals that have been dealt with in this House in the last week or two, one will be aware that an impetus, a life and a will are being expressed by this Government to improve the road transport situation across the nation- not only in the area of roads but also in the development of types of machinery and equipment, and a uniformity of weight carrying capacity, for instance, for highways and axle loads for transport where trucking is used. These are the important things, not the control of binding down of industry and commerce or the binding down to a uniform transport system in Australia. In some areas where there is need for uniformity the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has pursued programs such as the national highways program. That program lies fully within the responsibility of this Government and it is encouraging to see the way in which State governments have responded to the improvement in national highways and national programs of that type. 
The other area where the Government has had difficulty during its term of office is the railway arrangements made by the previous Government. It is futile to say that the South Australian Government received anything but the most generous treatment when the decision was made to purchase the railway system from the South Austraiian Government. It has been a constant thorn in the side of administrators and governments since that decision was made. The employment of staff and the introduction of a sensible rail transport system in the State of South Australia have been made almost impossible by the fact that the South Australian Government continues to run that railway system. I am sure that my good friend the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  will be aware of the difficulties in the State of Tasmania with the agreement made with the Government of Tasmania under which that Government has control of so many factors which by law should lie in this Parliament. I do not agree with the decision that was made by the Labor Government to buy these State railway systems. I think it has been demonstrated that it was not a good decision. 
If one looks into other areas of this Government's activities, such as the airlines and airline policies within Australia, one will see a change, m which some sort of adventure or imagination is being applied to those policies. It is not good that air travel in Australia is so expensive and the matter of international travel versus internal travel is receiving the closest attention. The Government's committee of inquiry into international fares and the operation of international companies within this nation will bear fruit that will be of benefit to all travellers. The registration of travel agents is outside the ambit of the transport portfolio, but it bears strongly on what may happen in the area of international travel and the benefits that will flow to Austraiian citizens travelling overseas. I know that this legislation was introduced first by the previous 
Government. With the collapse of various travel agencies, we now have seen the reason for bringing forward these proposals. I refer particularly to the agency operated by the Australian Union of Students and the great hardships that were caused to many individual students who were caught overseas and who could not make proper or effective travel arrangements through that agency. It is unfortunate that that agency has fallen into great disrepute. I trust that the Government will move to overcome those problems by introducing a true student fare that will be available to high school and tertiary students throughout Australia from a number of agencies instead of just from the monopoly that operated previously. 
When one looks at the future needs of this nation in the field of transport, there are a number of areas that spring to mind. The need, with the changing emphasis in defence policy, to have an understanding of the transport system throughout Australia and the need to know in detail the weight carrying capacity of various railway lines and roads, the capacity of various sea ports and airports and the fuel facilities that would be needed in times of emergency appeal to me as being a reasonable function of the Department of Transport, in co-operation with the Department of Defence, with the Federal Government providing additional support for State and local authorities to fulfil something of an internal defence arrangement. Other areas of innovation are of great interest to me. I see a policy of innovation, such as we see with the Schools Commission, being applied to State governments, perhaps amalgamating the research and development programs administered from here, as well as new programs, so that in particular instances State governments might take up innovations such as automatic ticket collecting as a trial program that could be examined and evaluated around Australia to see where that sort of system would be of advantage. 
Finally, I think that no area is more important than the capacity of this nation to continue to export economically. It is important that there be a rationalisation of the export of manufactured and primary produce in such a way that there is a minimum of delay and cost to exporters through the transport system. The expenses in this area have risen dramatically over the last three to four years. It is of great concern to me that exporters, on whom we depend to pay our way in the world by trade, have difficulties and are meeting increasing costs - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable gentlemen's time has expired. 
It was interesting to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  making a totally negative speech in this place. This was not the first occasion on which he has taken the opportunity of expressing negativism in this chamber. It would seem to me that the services and the wellbeing of Australia would be better served by a leader of the Opposition who offered some positives to the nation. The Leader of the Opposition should check through the list that he has just read out and answer whether his charges have been made by him honestly. He quoted from the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser):  'We will reduce the tax burden. We will put an end to Labor's tax rip-off". In the first year of this Government's office $990m was reduced from the tax take by the Australian Government. In the second year of this Government's office $962m was reduced. In the year to come $ 1,300m will be not taken from the Australian taxpayer. This is a fulfilment of the promise that we would reduce the tax burden. 
The next promise to which the Leader of the Opposition referred was that where an estate or part of it passed between a husband or wife estate duty would be changed to give an increased tax exemption. This has been done by the Government. The next promise referred to was: We will remove the injustices of Labor's tax scale'. By the sheer fact of inflation the Labor Party succeeded in raising the tax take from the Australian people from $10,00Om to $24,000m in just two years. It doubled the tax take by inflation in two years. This Government has in fact reduced the tax take and has a commitment to continue reducing the tax take. The Government, on coming to office, said that it would change quarterly tax collection of company tax and would suspend it for the period of the present crisis. That has been done. 
Let us look at what the Government has done in the housing area. The promise was a brief one: We shall introduce a new and improved home savings grant to assist first home buyers bridge the deposit gap'. That program has been introduced, together with many other programs and many other directives which have been of great assistance to the young people of this country in acquiring their first home. We have completely rewritten the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement so that it will bring an equity into the program. That was an initiative that the previous Government did not contemplate. Let us look at foreign affairs. I am sure that those people who have a remembrance of or an attachment to Europe will remember the Labor Party's policy on the Baltic states. We reversed recognition of the Soviet occupation of the Baltic states within a few weeks of coming to office. That was one foreign affairs achievement on which the Leader of the Opposition failed to comment. 
The real value of pensions will be preserved'. I do not know what could be fairer to the pensioners of this nation than to link pensions to the increase in the cost of living. It seems to me that the commitment to legislation of an on-going program for equity for the pensioners of this nation is recognised by the pensioners who have benefited from the Government's thoughtfulness and the justice in its program. The commitment was that these benefits would be protected against inflation. They have been protected against inflation. The Government made a further commitment to instruct the Industries Assistance Commission to take note of the Government's policy. Those actions have been followed and have recently been enshrined in legislation to make sure that the Industries Assistance Commission follows the instructions. 
The commitment on employment and industrial relations was that office bearers of all trade unions and all employer organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act would be elected under Electoral Office supervision by secret ballot. That promise has not been quite fulfilled, but a fairness in election for all unions has been introduced by this Government so that those people who make up the silent majority have an opportunity now of having a voice in the affairs of trade unions. It is a great shame that within the last weeks and months a number of trade unions have not been acting on the directions of their members. The strike in Victoria is a current example. That strike was badly handled by the shop stewards. It should not have taken place. 'We will work positively in co-operation with trade unions'. I am sure that if members on the other side examined the record of this Government they would see an active participation and an active endeavour to understand and co-operate with the union movement in Australia. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has been most patient, most discerning and most co-operative with unions, particularly in the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
The reserve price of 250c per kilo for wool during the 1976-77 season was achieved by this Government. 'We will ease eligibility provisions for unemployment assistance to farmers'. That has been done by this Government. Within the area of federalism and funding to State governments there has been a share in the income tax, a proper capacity to share in the tax take of this nation and an ability to share on an equitable basis so that no longer are Premiers Conferences rounds of squabbling and rounds of recrimination, one government against the other. The federalism policy has provided a sound basis of financial independence and responsibility for State and local governments. An independent Council for Inter-government Relations, designed to resolve problems between the levels of government, has been established, is active, is following out the directions and is starting to provide a real sense of co-operation and working spirit between the levels of government. 
If the Leader of the Opposition had wished he could have taken up the Governor-General's Speech which was given on 17 February 1976 and which outlined the Government's program in detail. It gave in detail some of the Government's commitments during the election campaign. The Governor-General, in making the Speech on behalf of the Government, said: 
The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
He said that there would be no more interference on a personal basis but that there would be a capacity for voluntary agencies and people to take up benefits and to assist themselves. The family allowance benefit is an outstanding example of this program. It was introduced in the early days of this Government, within the first few months. It has been applauded by all families throughout 
Australia. The Governor-General also referred to 'the freedom of Australians to choosewithout exploitation- the kinds of goods, services and styles of life they want, and to minimise direction by Government and the unnecessary redirection of resources through the government's bureaucracy'. Let us look back to the days of the Labor Government when we saw a redirection of every resource and a willingness of the Government to involve itself in every activity of an individual's way of life, whether it was a corporate individual or a family. The GovernorGeneral also referred to 'the growth of the Federal bureaucracy'. The massive development in government control could have been matched only by a massive growth in the bureaucracy. This Government has moved to remove that growth, to allay that growth and to allow some of the taxpayers funds to flow back to people in such a way that they may take advantage of their own decisions. 
One should ask the Leader of the Opposition: What does the Labor Party stand for?' One must look, I would take it, at some of the decisions of the Perth Conference in May of this year. It decided on a ban on uranium, a repudiation of contracts, endorsement of a centrally planned economy with strong government intervention at all levels and endorsement of considerably increased taxation to pay for social objectives. That must be the result of the decisions in Perth. If the benefits are to be increased, taxation must be increased. This Government has moved away from increased taxation. It believes that individuals are the best judges of their needs. It has moved to support the individual, without increasing taxation. The Labor Party today is committed to the abandonment of full income tax indexation. It endorses the policy that trade union actions should not be limited to industrial matters. This is part of the Labor Party's industrial relations policy. If one were to read all of the Labor Party's decisions in detail one would surely see that the Labor Party wishes to move back, lt has learnt nothing from its period in office, and it has forgotten nothing from its period in office. 
I am sure honourable members will be eager to see what has happened to this Government's commitment to bring down inflation, which was its prime objective when it came into office. Its aim was to reduce the increasing financial commitment of people purchasing goods, businesses seeking further investment or pensioners seeking to maintain their lifestyle and way of life. 
The House will be aware that only in the last few days the consumer price index has indicated that the inflation rate in this country is less than 10 per cent. The House will be aware that today the investment that is foreseen by businessmen as a direct outcome of this Government's policy will show a sharp rise in the second half of 1977. Businesses overall expect an 18 per cent rise in spending on items such as plant, equipment and buildings. This will provide jobs and increase employment. This indicates confidence in the direction that the Government is taking. After adjusting for seasonal factors, the expected increase in investment for all industries is 14 per cent. This compares with an actual rise of 6 per cent in the first half of 1977, the level predicted for that period. For the mining industry, the expected rise is 66 per cent after seasonal adjustment and for manufacturing the expected rise is 33 per cent. So much for the Leader of the Opposition's comments on the way in which this Government has failed to fulfil its promises. 
If this country pauses to assess the direction in which the Government intends to go, it will see that the need for further investment, new job opportunities, new technologies, further development of our industries and an improvement in the way of life of all Australians is right with us. This need can be fulfilled provided there is a continuance of safe, sound and stable government. The Labor Party has not promised safe, sound and stable government. Instead, it wants more of what went before. The Liberal Party is a party of progress that has taken hard times and brought together the difficult factors of the mess that was left behind by the previous Administration. It has done so with confidence and with firmness. It has made decisions that no governments like making- decisions that have hurt some people but decisions that have now proved beneficial and which have proved that this country now has the opportunity of taking up a future that is full of possibilities and chances for the creative talents of Australians at all levels. It is a future that is full of opportunities for the young, the elderly and the middleagedopportunities that did not exist under the previous Government. If we can move ahead with confidence in such a way that industrial unrest and the disruption created by a few people within the work force can be overcome, the average Australian working man will benefit by the confidence and the sense of security which this Government has brought to him. Should the opportunity arise, he will seize it. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of Press comment, can the Prime Minister say whether it is the Government's intention to withdraw the industrial legislation which was passed through Parliament last week? 
-It is interesting to listen to an honourable member who has returned to this House and to hear what he has been able to learn whilst outside the House and perhaps viewing things differently. I am afraid that I have heard from the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  the same things I heard two years ago and the same sorts of things that put the Labor Government out of office. The present Government was returned because of its policies and because of the failure of the Australian Labor Party to grasp realism. I think that the endorsement of the administration of this Government over the last two years has proved that. The Australian people have said: ' We wish to see a continuation of your intentions. What you have shown us in two years is the sort of thing that we can closely associate with'. At the same time I believe that the Australian people have put out a challenge to the present Government. The propositions put forward in the Governor-General's Speech spell out areas of success and areas of concern for future government decision making. It would seem that alongside the successes there are also areas where the Government must be cautious, where it needs to be imaginative and where it needs to accept challenge. 
The success of this Government in the next three years will depend on its realising the objectives set out in the Governor-General 's Speech. I think that success in the areas of inflation, of general recovery and of dealing sympathetically with some of the problems of unemployment, but at the same time having regard for social welfare and the aspirations of individuals who cannot help themselves, has been recognised by the electorate. A vital area that must be investigated and encouraged by the Government is the entrepreneurial spirit of all individuals. The real spirit and progress of our nation, the drive which needs to be tapped and encouraged in this nation, can be found in the rural industries and in small and medium businesses. These people need encouragement and all Australians will benefit from it. In the rural industries and in small and medium businesses the greatest employment is offered to Australians and the greatest investment is made by Australians. The areas in which there can be development, progress and specialisation within our nation are most obvious. Small and medium businesses and small and medium rural industries often are the sources of innovation. They are the areas from which new, imaginative, creative and inventive ideas come and the ideas are taken up by larger corporations and larger groups of individuals. These are the areas from which each individual Australian benefits. 
The common interest that is shared by both the rural and the business worlds is not easily recognised. In fact, this Government's opponents seek to divide the city interest from the country interest. It must be recognised by all Australians that we have a common heritage and common problems in so many of these areas. The dedication of an individual's capital, for instance, is often the single underlying factor of commonality between business and rural interests. The long hours of work by individuals who have a decision making capacity, who are in control of their own business or who accept responsibility at an executive level, are common throughout these industries. Throughout these industries the seeking of reward for effort is also a factor that drives people on to make new decisions and new investment, to employ more people, to be innovative and to adopt new technology and new ideas. The prices and profits that these individuals take are often not of their own making. In rural industries prices are set often by the capacity to make sales on markets that are not within the control of the Australian Government and not within the ambit of our sphere of operation. 
The same thing applies to the small businessman. He tends to be a price taker. He cannot control completely the price that he accepts for his goods. The small manufacturer is under constant pressure from imports and from his competitors to accept a price which is offered to him by somebody wishing to buy but it is not always possible for him to realise completely the full benefit of the work and the time that he puts into achieving the processing of his goods. Often families are involved with these people, and the decisions that are made on a day to day basis are supported by wives and families working long hours with the manager or the controller of the business. A sense of uncertainty, of economic difficulty, is most obvious in the areas where small and medium businesses operate. They are the ones which, because of their inability to control decisions that affect them closely, suffer from insecurity and lack of opportunity. Their families often receive fewer benefits than many employees of these businesses. The sense of frustration in rural industry and small or medium businesses is often brought about by their incapacity to make governments understand what their problems are. They are often not organised into effective industrial groups. They do not have the capacity to bring forward to government in an organised way their views, their demands and their suggestions. Therefore, in that climate they tend to accept the inevitable. At times the inevitable is what is least good for the nation. 
The way in which government can assist these industries in a general sense- this has been done over the past 2 years by this Government- is to look at their cost factors and to assist them in overcoming increasing costs which result from inflation, high interest rates and factors of a general nature which affect the whole community. In that way encouragement is given to rural industries to cut the cost of repayments on money borrowed to buy stock and machinery. This general policy is bearing fruit. It will continue to make the way of life of people on the land and in small and medium businesses less difficult and their opportunities more realistic. Small and medium businesses are often dependent on larger organisations for the provision of services and for contractual arrangements. Therefore, the Government's stimulus by way of an investment allowance and its protection from unwarranted competition is something that flows down to lower levels. This flow-on effect has been recognised by the Government and has provided support and relief to people operating in lower levels of service and also to large industry. However, primary producers are completely dependent on overseas markets and what can be bargained for in the world market place. In its move to seek more markets the Government has been partially successful. The Government's decision to establish a rural bank has given support to rural industries and to primary producers but I suggest that the Government needs to look in an indepth way to tapping the grass roots problems in many of these areas. It seems to me that it is not sufficient for us to adopt an attitude of doing more of the same thing by the mechanisms of protection and closing up and that the support of our Australian industries as they now exist should be the entire activity of this Government. That is not the case. The Government has adopted a number of initiatives which will expand the work force base and the opportunities for all levels of business. 
I suggest to the House that future progress, new business, new opportunities, new jobs and a better way of life for all Australians may lie in our utilising some of the vast resources that we possess. I refer to our energy and mineral resources and to our agricultural wealth. It seems to me that we are rich in resources. To take advantage of those resources now seems to be the challenge that we face in the time ahead of us. We have to offer to the world buyer a greater variety of both manufactured and primary products so that not only can buyers have a wider selection and not only can we be more effective on world markets but also so that within Australia the infrastructure of service and support for various aspects of primary, secondary and tertiary industry can be diversified. That will lead to new opportunities for the businessman who conducts a small or medium sized enterprise. It will lead to new opportunities for the man on the land to diversify his crops and his production. 
One of the real problems that faces the man on the land in that regard is the lead time involved in his making decisions. A decision to change from one commodity to another or from one source of production to another could take from 3 to 5 years to bring to fruition. Governments do not seem to understand that fluctuations in world markets and sudden changes introduced by foreign powers can leave a large block of primary producers without markets, without opportunities and without prospects. Primary producers, as individuals, their families and the whole community suffer from such unfortunate movements or sudden decisions. 
However, if we were to look at our primary industries and to assess the prospects of more closely manufacturing and refining commodities there would be a joint benefit both to the primary producer and to the city dweller. I am told that most of Australia's hides and skins are shipped out of Australia without any processing work having been done. It seems to me that there are wonderful prospects in this country if we examine those primary products which can be refined and presented to buyers in a diverse form. We could establish a decentralisation program which would provide opportunities for employment, which in turn would diversify the Australian community and would also provide markets of a different type for primary producers. 
For those engaged in small to medium sized businesses, development of our energy and resources provides a need for . services of all types. It provides a need for services so diverse as to encourage a great number of individuals who wish to seek opportunities and who wish to take advantage of opportunities that they perceive. We need to develop a more aggressive spirit in our attitudes towards world markets. In fact, we need to employ our best salesmen and to take advantage of every opportunity to explore existing markets or to gain access to existing markets. Both the American market and the European Economic Community are open to approach, not by direct routes but by indirect routes. The prospect of using countries such as Malta or Greece to gain access to the EEC should be examined by Australian industry and by Australian producers. I noted with interest the Australian Dairy Board's approach to the Maltese Government to establish a reconstituting plant in Malta so that our dairy products could flow into the EEC. 
We need men of great calibre and men of imagination and vision to employ these techniques, rather than relying on traditional salesmen and people who traditionally seek out markets, such as those who do so from various boards and authorities in Australia. We need to employ a different approach so that we can provide not only a diversity in the products presented to foreign markets but also a diversity of source to foreign markets. There is a need not just to bolster the existing industries, to seek new industries and to have an effective co-operative effort between our primary, secondary and tertiary producers; there is also a need to provide more sophisticated industries, better informed people within those industries and an educational process which will ensure that decisions made are accurate, investment is not wasted and real advantage is taken of Australia's place and comparative advantages in the world. We need to ensure that there is a better delivery of Australian goods on foreign markets and we need to ensure that our products arrive on time in the condition in which they were despatched. An export drive such as that envisaged by the Government could bear good fruit. 
In Australia there needs to be a return to some sort of pride in workmanship and the Australian community needs to be encouraged to buy Australian goods. That sort of confidence can be encouraged in the Australian community by a greater examination of the benefits of mutual cooperation in the work place. Very often we hear the word 'productivity' used, and it is translated immediately to mean greater production. That is not the meaning of the word, and that is not the way in which it is used in those quarters which understand its meaning and the need for greater productivity. Greater productivity means an improved way of work life, an improved technique whereby both employee and employer together gain the benefits of improved technology, new ideas and the application of new sales techniques- in fact, the whole area of operation of a particular business. We should be investigating the establishment of a national conference to examine the way in which all Australians can benefit from increased productivity. Such a conference would involve representatives of both industry and unions sitting down together and working out how, to mutual benefit, they can gain advantage by increased production, can achieve working hours that are more congenial and surroundings that are conducive to a better application to the mutual task. Such matters need to be examined not only at a national level but also on the shop floor amongst the individuals who are involved in the day to day process. 
It would seem that offering awards to various industries would also assist in directing the attention of the community to the need for greater productivity. Australian firms should be encouraged to compete for a demonstrated capacity to increase productivity. Foreign firms which have investments in Australia should also be encouraged so that various techniques can be compared. In that way other people can take advantage of decisions made by companies with diverse interests. We should encourage amongst employers at the management level and amongst the workers themselves an attitude of pride in what has been achieved so that awards can be made to those who can prove that they have successfully coped with the difficulties of current situations and have provided an improved way of life for their work mates or for their industry. 
The challenges before this Government are great. The challenges the Government has met are really significant. I suggest to the House that the difficult decisions already taken by this Government and the achievements made are an indication of the way in which the Government will meet its challenges. 
The Minister for Transport will be aware that last week the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee released details of proposals for meeting Sydney's airport needs. Will the Minister indicate when all background papers from the MANS Committee will be available, including the proposals for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? Will the Minister indicate the status of all papers? Will the Minister assure the House that all options will receive proper attention from the Committee? As the people of my electorate have suffered continual rumour and speculation for more than five years will the Minister assure the people of Sydney and of the electorate of Mitchell in particular that the delays which have already occurred with the MANS Committee will not continue? 
-This Government has acted to increase the opportunity for home ownership of a wide range of Australians. Today the Opposition came into this chamber with a poorly worded, poorly prepared motion. The Opposition cannot get enough speakers into this place to present a reasonable argument in support of its motion- a motion which it introduced as being one of public importance to this country. 
Let us look at some of the facts. Let us look firstly at some of the initiatives this Government has taken to assist the home buyer. One is the introduction of new homes savings grant scheme, which was denigrated by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson). His  speech indicated that home buyers should be made aware that any future Labor government would move to remove this opportunity for home ownership in Australia. We have been given the red light in this regard. Home buyers should take note that any future Labor government would discontinue the home savings grant scheme. That scheme has been in operation for only two years but more than 46,000 people in Australia have already taken advantage of it. It is an imaginative program. 
The Government has revised the home interest tax deductibility scheme in such a way that it concentrates on assisting home buyers in the early years of home ownership and those people who battle against circumstances to establish a way of life and a home for themselves and their families. We have extended the activities of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporationthe HLIC- to give it a greater degree of commercial and operational flexibility. As time goes by, some of those amendments will prove to be most substantial. The Corporation is already insuring loans to 100 per cent of valuation. The Corporation will insure a wider range of loans, including loans to builders and developers for land acquisition and development and subsequent dwelling construction. 
It would seem to me that the role of the Corporation has been encouraged and enlarged. Because of its success in the past, success is assured for the future. The HLIC has moved towards providing insurance for loans for rental housing projects and loans made by government instrumentalities, such as State superannuation funds. In the middle of the year we will see the introduction of a completely overhauled CommonwealthState Housing Agreement and a capacity for the HLIC to widen the eligibility for subsidised home loans and to distribute available funds more efficiently so that people who are living in housing commission or housing trust premises will have a capacity to purchase under reasonable conditions and at 100 per cent valuation, if necessary, those homes which they have spent their lives improving and in which they have raised their children. 
The honourable member for Hughes came into this chamber poorly prepared and not knowing what the motion was all about. He said that it was the same old thing. It is not the same old thing. We have moved a long way past the days of 1 975 when there were high interest rates and a general incapacity in the country. We now have a government which is committed to home ownership and a government which has taken numerous initiatives to strengthen the opportunity for home ownership. If we look at the public housing area- the area of welfare- we must recognise the Government's sympathy for those people who do not have the capacity for home ownership and who need shelter, encouragement and provisions for the growth of their families. The State governments have agreed to a new housing agreement. Substantially they have said that it is an innovative program and one which will give the Federal and State governments increased opportunities to serve better the people they represent. The new agreement will increase the opportunities of moderate income earners for home ownership. Again the emphasis will be on home ownership for the low income earner. It will provide cheap money for the State governments to build rental housing for those in need. That has been a traditional role of housing commissions and of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Subsidies provided by the taxpayer will be directed to those most in need. There will be provision for the States to allocate funds to voluntary groups or local government where those agencies are better able to assist in providing housing services. 
The new agreement will also encourage the States to give additional attention to the environmental aspects of public housing, such as urban renewal, provision of open space, landscaping and community facilities. One of the shortcomings of all previous agreements has been a lack of understanding of what housing trusts and commissions should be doing. They saw their role entirely as one of providing cheap accommodation, giving no thought to families and individuals, whether they be elderly or young, or the surroundings in which they would be living. So often we have seen this sort of development become a ghetto and a blot on our society. Now, under the new Agreement, provision is made for note to be taken of the environment, the surroundings and the way of life of the people involved. 
I will come back to the substance of the matter of public importance which the honourable member for Hughes neglected and in relation to which he was so badly prepared. The Opposition takes great delight in seizing upon the figures for one or two months and stating that they indicate a trend in the building industry. I refer Opposition members to a statement made in the middle of last year by the previous Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  He said that he was concerned at that stage because he felt that 'taking the overall view for the rest of this year I think, particularly because of the build up of stocks and because of the level in the last half of 1976, we could see some decline in the general activity in the building industry in 1977'. The previous Minister recognised that the circumstances prevailing in the industry were being met and that the demands and requirements of the industry were being met by the Government. The circumstances were such that he could see some decline occurring. We have witnessed that decline, but we also have an assurance that these minor fluctuations, compared with previous fluctuations which occurred under the Labor Government, are not substantial and in fact will be ironed out in the forthcoming year. It would also be obvious to those people interested in the building industry that the moves taken by the Government to reduce inflation and to create a sustained economic growth must benefit the housing industry. 
One of the important factors in the cost of housing, of course, is the interest component of repayments. With interest rates being reduced, that must give Australians a better capacity to own their own homes. Of course, a response to lower interest rates does not take place overnight, but the Government's intention, the Government's commitment- in fact, the Government's action- indicates that pressure is being exerted to lower interest rates. They have started to move down; they will continue to move down. Nothing will provide a better stimulus, a more substantial and long-lasting stimulus, to the building industry than the lowering of interest rates. The Government's action is not an artificial pump-priming action to pour money into government-sponsored or government-built homes. The government component comprises only eight per cent to 10 per cent of the total building industry in Australia. Honourable members opposite are telling me that if we doubled that figure we would provide some sort of stimulus in the Australian building industry. I respond by saying that such an increase would be inconsequential. We need a sound economy, a lowering of the inflation rate and a lowering of interest rates if we are to provide any sort of sound stimulus for the building industry. 
I point out to honourable members some of the factors that appertained while the present 
Opposition was in government. Up to and including 1972 the average price for a new house and land varied between 188 and 195 weeks' earnings at the prevailing rate of average weekly male earnings. The price of the new housing package shot up to 219 weeks in 1973 and 227 weeks in 1974. What could be a greater indictment of the Labor Party, that once great Party, whose members sit opposite? What could be a greater indictment of its policies and its lack of understanding of the needs and aspirations of Australians? It would seem that the present Government has adopted- I am convinced that that is the case under our new and dynamic Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)-  an innovative program. It is a program which indicates good management, which is something that the Opposition cannot claim. The Government has made a commitment to support home buyers- a commitment which the Labor Party would seek to reverse. 
The superfluous matter of public importance which is before the House is time wasting and is based on inconsequential argument and inconsequential facts and figures. 
-This piece of legislation brings to the House the fulfilment of a promise made by the Government during the last election campaign. It is the reintroduction of the program scrapped by the Labor Party when it came to office. It was one of those programs on which it got someone to advise it how it could make so-called savings. In doing so it penalised country people and country industry throughout Australia. It was an incredibly bad decision taken in the early days of the Labor Government and one that the Labor Party has regretted ever since. It was one of the prime measures that caused complete disenchantment in country areas and the realisation that that Party did not understand the problems of rural life. This Bill will mean that between areas there will be a difference of no more than 4c a gallon in the freight element of fuel cost. As the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out, this will not mean that there will be a difference in cost of not greater than 4c a gallon between each area and each outlet. 
It is a significant step forward in alleviating the difficulties of country areas. The cost of production in country areas is much greater because the difference between city and country fuel prices might be as great as 40c or 50c a gallon. It would seem that, if we intend to provide a stimulus to depressed areas, this is the sort of stimulus that spreads equitably into those areas of production, those areas that contribute to employment and those areas that contribute to our export earning capacity. 
On behalf of Government supporters I commend the Government for the swiftness with which it has moved to introduce this measure and the farsightedness that it has shown in not only bringing forward this measure but also in making it impossible for a future government to dismantle such a measure by an administrative act, as was done previously. Any proposed changes to the legislation or any attempt to dismantle it will have to come before both Houses of the Parliament. I think that is reasonable and proper and that it shows the Government's commitment and firm intent to support country production, not only primary production but also increasing secondary production and production in mining areas. 
As the Minister said, it is respect for the Parliament. It is the proper way to do things. One of the flaws in the previous administration was the fact that it considered that it could do everything by administrative action. It did not like to bring legislation before the Parliament because people would find out what it was doing. That is not the intention of this Government. This measure shows good intent because it cannot be changed unless everybody involved knows what is happening. I think this is one problem in the total area of fuel pricing policy within Australia that the Government has moved to alleviate. If there is not a complete difference of not more than 4c a gallon throughout Australia, one must refer to the Prime Minister's words when he has called on oil companies to review their pricing policies and the differentiation they make between city and country areas. Other factors contribute to the difference which is greater than the freight element. I have mentioned to the House that we need to promote the important Australian industries that help pay our way in the world. The cost of fuel is a most significant part of the cost of production. From figures which I have seen the element of fuels of this type compared with the total energy scene contribute by far the greater part of the cost. Therefore if one is looking at the cost of energy and the penalties that people are paying for it, one must applaud the Government's decision. 
The one aspect of this Bill that I would like to see varied is that which concerns the application of a freight subsidy on heavy oils. I notice that in his second reading speech the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said that products to be covered by this scheme will include motor spirit, power kerosene, automotive distillate and aviation fuels. That is commendable because they are all important fuels. I would like to bring to the Government's notice that, if one refers to the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in Australia, one will see that distillate and fuel oils each represent 19 per cent of Australia's consumption of petroleum products. It seems to me that under those circumstances a subsidy on the lighter fuel elements would seem to place stress on their use in remote areas. 
If one is to consider the investment of industry and' of governmental and semi-governmental bodies, one would realise that many of them depend or like to depend on the use of heavy fuels so that they have a low cost fuel. I think that the fact that these heavy elements are not included in the Bill is a slight detriment to it and that it works somewhat against the Government's policy of fuel conservation- a policy that has been announced and is starting to move forward by the actions of both the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Newman)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  The transport industry is a major user of petroleum fuels. However, we should not neglect the use that is made of heavy fuels by secondary industry in decentralised areas and the growing demand for heavy fuels from mining industries. 
It would seem that if those industries are gearing up to the use of light fuels, that may not result in the best use of fuels within Australia. The Industries Assistance Commission report dealing with crude oil pricing which was brought down in 1976 details various techniques that may be use by government for the conservation of fuels. The Government has concentrated a major part of its policy on supporting important areas of production but the second aspect of the petroleum industry and attention to petroleum products is in the area of oil producers, oil refiners and retailers. One has only to gain an assessment of the Australian production of crude oil- where it comes from and the cost of its production- to realise that there is a need gradually to upgrade the returns received by Australian producers so that they can bring on to line some of those secondary sources of oil. Australia's production rate of its own fuel is falling. The total complement that we provide ourselves is now 70 per cent but that will fall to 30 per cent by, roughly, 1985. To maximise the use that we can make of our own oil, the secondary sources need to be brought into production and some sort of encouragement is needed for producers so that they will consider it worthwhile to make the investment necessary further to exploit Australian oil. 
The fact that we will be buying more and more fuel from overseas is another reason for us to conserve our very precious supplies of very high quality oil. Australian oil is very high quality oil and it is something that many countries would like to have. There is also a need at the moment for further massive investment in Australia by refiners. I suggest to the House that those investors, those oil refiners, need to take note of the changing sources of oil that they will be using in the next five to seven years and the fact that they will be using oils which are not as clean and whose chemical content is quite different from that of our indigenous oil. I hope their investment will be geared in such a way as to make full use of all by-products of imported oils and also to be able efficiently to deal with the refining of those oils. 
In the retail industry the selling of petrol and petroleum products is an area which has suffered some distress over a period of time. Retailers have faced difficult circumstances, such as discounting practices. They have faced the problems of inbuilt rent schemes and subsidies for people giving discounts and all sorts of unusual practices that are not generally considered commercially satisfactory. If any section of the industry is disadvantaged, it would seem to me that the retail industry in Australia at the moment is suffering a quiet considerable disadvantage. I think that one need only to refer to the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum to see some of the difficulties faced by retailers at the moment. That report details evidence given by retailers that practices of discriminatory pricing, unusually rent arrangements and undesirable subsidy payments obviously are working against the large group of selfemployed small businessmen. Some companies have even adopted the practice of proceeding to the Prices Justification Tribunal seeking an increase in price of, for example, 5 per cent, achieving a 3 per cent increase and then applying only a one per cent increase to their products, at the same time being involved in a price cutting war with a competitor. 
It would seem to me that it is very difficult to get to the facts and figures within the oil industry. It is my contention that this matter should be opened up as quickly as possible, more quickly than is happening at the moment. Australia should be moving to a world parity price for its crude oil so that some of these undesirable features can be lifted out of the market and refiners can engage in true competition without interference and without false structures which have been put there by government. It would seem to me that there is an obvious advantage for companies seeking to maximise their market share by taking advantage of the low price they pay for indigenous crude. The fact is that the more indigenous crude they use, the more they will be allocated. If we move to a world parity price we will have fairer, more competitive factors working in the refining market and in the production of petroleum products and byproducts. If that were to be done I think that many of the problems that now confront the retailing industry would be overcome. One cannot but be concerned when one reads from the  Voice of the Transport Worker  dated October 1977 details of some of the arrangements made by ACTU/Solo and the people who are responsible for the delivery of its fuel. I refer to a note which is attached to a memorandum written by  Mr Bob  Hawke to the Secretary of the Transport Workers' Union in Newcastle.  Mr Hawke  says: 
N.B. The product is not to be delivered - 
He is talking about petroleum productsby agents/contractors to ACTU/Solo service station sites 

 Mr Hawke precludes the opportunity for agents or contractors to deliver to the sites. I suggest that this may intrude into the area of restrictive trade practices. I think it is very serious if those sorts of factors are at work in the petroleum industry. They disjoint the benefits to consumers. They disjoint the profits being made by a huge number of hard-working small businessmen, businessmen who often are penalised by decisions over which they have no control. 
I commend the Government and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs for the establishment of the Oil Industry Council in which the Minister has drawn together all parties experiencing these problems with a view to resolving these problems by sitting at the conference table with gloves off and with complete frankness discussing some of their joint problems. Should that conference and the series of conferences planned not overcome the problem, I suggest to the Government that we need to look to raising the price of Australian crude to world parity. 
This increase could perhaps be effected by charging a Government levy on top of the price now received for Australian crude, but because that would impose upon the consumer a large increase in the price of petroleum, the avenue of excise reduction should be used to balance the increase. I am sure that if the Government were to examine the details of this proposal it would find that there are sufficient funds to introduce such a measure and at the same time iron out many of the difficulties in the industry. The Minister has set up a consultative arrangement which is very important to the stability of the industry. I think the areas that need to be assessed by the House and by the Government are the areas of price, services or facilities, in which discrimination may be imposed on small businessmen. 
All in all I compliment the Minister and the Government for the work they have done on the first step towards bringing some sense and fairness into the petroleum industry in Australia. I know that the huge and massive rural industries, both primary and secondary, will benefit greatly by the decision. It goes a long way towards removing some of the discrimination that people must face due to their remoteness. It will go a long way to breaking down some of the difficulties they have competing on world markets. I hope that as we move into other areas, such as pricing arrangements for fuel, we will resolve the problem in such a way that all consumers, both city and country, will have a choice in price and product which is based on a reasonable profit for all involved right down the line. I hope that we will get rid of some of the discrimination and poor practice that has been obvious in the industry and that, having achieved that, the ultimate objectives of this Government of stability, progress, increased production and an increasingly beneficial way of life to all Australians will be achieved. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and concerns Australia's relations with Malta. What is the basis of the recent criticism the Maltese Government has directed to Australia? Are such criticisms justified? Is the Australian Government concerned that the Maltese Government's actions have led to a deterioration in the bilateral relationship? 
-I must admit my personal disappointment at the attitude taken by the spokesman for the Opposition, because his Party was in fact very much involved with some of the provisions enshrined in the legislation being debated today. If we look back at the history of the development and the fulfilment of Australian contracts to provide uranium to energy scarce countries, we notice that the Whitlam Government tabled in the Parliament on 31 October 1974 a statement announcing a program of large-scale uranium development in the Northern Territory, commencing with the exploitation of the Ranger deposit, to be followed by the development of the Nabarlek and other deposits. Together with the Whitlam Government's statement on 31 October 1974, there was tabled in the Parliament an agreement with Peko Wallsend Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd for the joint development of the Ranger deposits by the Commonwealth and those companies. The agreement was signed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, the then  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the late  Mr Connor,  the  Chairman  of Peko,  Mr Proud,  and the Managing Director of EZ,  Mr Mackay.  That agreement was elaborated further in a Memorandum of Understanding dated 28 October 1 975, about one year later, which was also tabled in the Parliament. It was signed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam, Mr Proud  and  Mr Mackay. 
It seems to me that if this Government moves to carry through proposals that were commenced by the previous Government, the Opposition in a fit of pique will seek to deny that it was ever involved in the development of the original guidelines which it was instrumental in setting down. The next thing we will have is the spokesman for the Opposition seeking to deny that under the agreement the Atomic Energy Commission is vitally involved. Under that Memorandum of Understanding the Labor Government involved the Atomic Energy Commission to the extent of 7214 per cent, Peko 13% per cent and EZ 13% per cent of the total investment. The Opposition says that there were some things that it did not like about the way in which the Opposition of the day forced it to involve the Commission. That may be so. However, the Labor Government proceeded to produce a memorandum. It proceeded to enter into a number of arrangements and understandings that would lead any sensible and sane person to believe that the Government of the day, despite its presently stated shortcomings, was happy with the way in which matters were proceeding and that it was happy to see the development and export of uranium under those conditions. Now it would seem that we are being criticised. In fact the Opposition will vote against these provisions. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that he is not altogether happy with the way in which we are going ahead with this matter; we do not really agree with that Memorandum of Understanding, with the way it was set up or with the involvement of the Atomic Energy Commission. We are taking up the agreement that the Opposition created, and we will make it work. We will make it work in a way which is not completely the will of the Government, but we are making the best we can out of what the Opposition has allowed us to do. There is no pique; there is no real criticism of what we are doing. We are confident of our ability to progress successfully. We are confident of our capacity to move forward with these proposals. I do not think that it becomes the Opposition to whinge and whine about what it might have done and would have liked to have done, when in fact it set these proposals in train. It had already moved down this road, and now it is critical of this Government for pursuing the matters in the way that it set them up. 
The Government first of all has taken up the Fox report and has implemented its recommendations in a series of Bills that will come into the Parliament in the next few days. Those Bills will cover environmental control, certain amendments for the protection of Aboriginals and parks and wildlife. There is a whole series of Bills seeking to protect the environment and the Australian community. This Bill which amends the Atomic Energy Act is a vital part of that package. Another recommendation that the Government has followed through relates to the consideration of Aboriginals. If one looks at the Memorandum of Understanding one sees that an important proposition proposed by the previous Government was based on a report by the Interim Aboriginal Land Commissioner on land claims by Aboriginals in the Ranger project area. This Government has involved Aboriginals in a most successful and imaginative way. One must see the package as a whole, as an exciting and outstanding differently way of handling a difficult subject. In the first place it recognises the importance of fulfilling contracts and supplying energy; secondly, it protects the Australian community; thirdly, it protects the Aboriginal community and its sacred lands and other lands which need protection; and fourthly, it covers the need to protect and safeguard the environment in the area where the mining will take place. 
The Government has followed up religiously and conscientiously a whole series of areas which were partly instigated by the previous Government and partly instigated by this Government to allow a successful, imaginative but carefully considered approach to the mining of uranium in Australia. From what the Opposition has saiddespite taking up these topics carefully, sincerely, with proper negotiations and proper consultation with everyone involved- we are being criticised. We are implementing what were basically many of the Opposition's ideas. Some of the provisions are its proposals. Because the day has changed and the Government has changed, the Opposition is no longer prepared to support what were basically its concepts and its ideas. I find this extremely disappointing, and I would have thought that the calibre of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was such that he would approach this matter in a constructive way. I thought he was a bigger man with a better understanding of what is needed and that some sort of consensus could have been gained and some sort of discussions could have taken place between the Government and the Opposition. Unfortunately since November 1976 the Opposition has been moving slowly towards opposing the mining and handling of uranium in Australia, for no real reason. Members of the Opposition say that they want to debate the matter. However, they do not debate it in this place. They state the stance that they have taken as a party and then preclude any further discussion. 
In the development of this legislation one must take note of the way in which the Government has sought to make provision for safeguards and protection for the Australian community. I do not think that anybody would agree with the proposition that a commodity such as uranium, despite the fact that in its unrefined form it is not a particularly dangerous substance, should be handled carelessly or thrown around as many other commodities are when they are transported through our rail and shipping complexes. There should be proper protection for the Australian community and for international communities so that unforeseen circumstances do not occur. It should be ensured that there is no intervention by people who would seek for their own purposes or even for military purposes to subvert the Australian community. I do not think that that can be done and I do not think it will be done under the legislation that we are debating today. 
The Government has taken a responsible attitude to follow through the safeguards and the obligations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. In fact, that Treaty states that the Government must accept responsibility for the handling of these materials within our country. As the circumstances now exist within Australia we are fulfilling completely the obligations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. I feel that if we were to vary in any substantial way the proposals contained in the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill, we would be moving away from those safeguards. We must be careful. It is all very well to say that people must have freedoms to demonstrate. We agree with that. People must have freedoms to protest or to strike. But there are international obligations placed on this Government in the handling of a material, which obligations we seek to impose upon the countries with which we are trading. 
The Opposition seems to be putting forward the proposition that while Australia need not agree with or observe the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty, we should impose its requirements upon other countries. I find this a spurious argument. I think that it is a debating point brought forward by the Opposition. Surely honourable members opposite cannot seriously argue that we should not fulfil the obligations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in the way in which uranium is handled. Surely they do not at the same time propose that we apply by bilateral agreements to other countries the conditions of the Treaty. I think that the attitude of the previous  speaker  in the debate is a tragedy. I am sure that he has not properly thought through the implications of the way in which he wishes these materials to be handled. Of course there is a need for safe handling. Of course the conditions of control for the use of uranium and the delivery of uranium to fill contracts and international agreements are vital. This Government will see that it is done properly and in a fair way for the community. It will see also that this is done in such a way that all our treaties are fulfilled. 
Of course, there is no need to enunciate to the House the importance of the careful use of uranium. Energy deficient countries are looking to Australia which possesses about 20 per cent of the world's low cost proven uranium reserves to become a regular supplier of uranium to assist them through a period of transition. Australia has the potential to become a net energy exporter in very big terms. It is said that it could become an energy exporter equivalent in thermal terms to Iran in providing for the world 's energy needs today. Bearing in mind the world energy situation, Australia has a role as an energy rich nation. It is responsible for us to talk of Australia's development and careful handling of uranium and not to talk as the Opposition does about Australia withholding its uranium supplies from the world community. I consider that this Government really does not think it an option to withhold supplies of uranium from an energy hungry world. 
If we were to look at the need for power, we could do no better than turn to the speech delivered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and look at some of the needs for safeguards and the provision of protection within Australia. It is interesting to note the way in which Australia, under the safeguards provisions, will seek and ensure the implementation of the requirements of the International Atomic Energy Agency for the control of uranium and the by-products. I wish to bring to the attention of the House the closing remarks made by Sigvard Eklund, the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, at the International Conference on Nuclear Power and its Dual Cycle. I found great interest in the conclusion he drew when outlining one of the shortcomings of his Agency which he felt existed. He said: 
I feel that we also share the responsibility for having failed to convey to the peoples of the world the message that nuclear energy represents no larger, and indeed often smaller, risks than many other technologies that have been accepted by modern society. 
The Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, an international body contributed to by those people who seek to stretch their capacity for the use of energy, is saying that he feels that he has not been successful in explaining to the world some of the implications and the importance of alternative energy forms. 
The Comecon countries- the bloc of communist countries in Europe- intend to pursue nuclear power as an energy source. A major conversion to atomic power has long been the principle of Comecon energy policy which will not be hampered by ecology minded minority pressure groups. Those countries have a capacity to override the democratic processes. It is unfortunate that the Australian Labor Party is not participating in a democratic process. The suggestions coming forward from honourable members opposite seem to be minimal. There seems to be a constant repetition of the words: 'We do not agree with what you are doing; therefore we will not co-operate in trying to develop for the Australian people a proper way of dealing with this problem and a proper way of imposing safeguards'. There is a failure on the part of honourable members opposite to see that the Australian will that is implied in the series of Bills coming before the House is recognised by the rest of the world and recognised in such a way that many other countries will take up our safeguards and our environmental protection measures. This could well be the important factor of the Australian uranium industry. With the Government that we have today, these measures will have an impact on the way in which uranium will be used on this earth. They will need to have an impact shortly because uranium will be required as a source of energy for only a short time span. 
Unless the members of the Australian community and this Government are prepared to accept this challenge we will be held responsible by many nations for not getting into the kitchen. If things are hot and difficult and the Australian community can play a role, the Australian Government must take up that challenge and see that we have the will, the forbearance, the understanding and the wish for peace that are expressed so often in the Austraiian community and expressed internationally. I am sure that that can be done. It is very clear that only by developing our vast uranium resources can Australia play a real role in strengthening nuclear safeguards and preventing any ill-considered rush to plutonium based energy systems. The setting up of the Uranium Advisory Council, the provisions that will come forward for environmental protection, the amendments to the Atomic Energy Act, the amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Act, the amendments to the Northern 
Territory Supreme Court legislation, the Aboriginal land rights legislation and many other moves are all important factors that fit together. It is not good enough for members of the Opposition to say that they will disagree with that or disagree with something else, that they will refuse to offer any alternatives and will be nasty and stand back because they fear the kitchen is too hot. 
I put a challenge to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  who is sitting at the table. I hope that the honourable member and his party can come forward and offer some constructive views on the way in which these serious matters can be handled. It is the easiest thing in the world for an Opposition to be critical and to oppose. That is part of the role of an Opposition. But the full role of an Opposition is realised only if its members are prepared to trade punches with the Government on the ways in which compromise can be reached and the ways in which modifications can be made in matters of this type. 
I hope that when he speaks the Leader of the Opposition will recognise the role that the Labor Party can play in this matter- the role that so many trade unionists want the Labor Party to play in this matter, for they see jobs, they see potential and they see opportunity being denied to this nation unless the Labor Party participates in a thoughtful way. I look forward to the words of the Leader of the Opposition and trust that he makes a constructive contribution to the development of this dangerous and interesting substance, one that holds so much potential for energy-scarce nations of the world. The proposals before the House brought forward by the Government deserve the support of the House in seeking to provide safeguards for Australia's development of uranium and protection and security in the handling of that material. 
I rise to speak on this clause of the Bill because I think it is the crux of the matter. The activities of the Supervising Scientist will depend very strongly on the sort of committee he has advising him. It disappoints me that the Opposition has not seen fit to refer in its amendment to the Northern Territory Administration. I do not know whether that is an indication of the Labor Party's attitude to the Northern Territory, but I should have thought that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would be very concerned that there has been no mention of the Northern Territory Administration. However, in his second reading speech the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  mentioned particularly the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, the Northern Territory Administration and the Northern Land Council. Once we begin to specify various bodies within legislation we run into trouble. We must accept that it is the Government's intention, through this body, to provide proper information to the Supervising Scientist. 
The functions of the Supervising Scientist are such that the role of the Committee will be to consider programs for research and collection of information, to review those programs and make recommendations to the Supervising Scientist on them, to consider and review standards, practices and procedures and their effect, to review requirements under prescribed instruments, to make recommendations to the Supervising Scientist on those factors, and to perform such other functions as are confirmed or are incidental to the foregoing. If one looks at the role of the Co-ordinating Committee, one would have to recognise that there are some people who should be on it. The Opposition has not specified the Northern Territory Administration, which would be a vital group to have involved. The Minister has said that he will include the Administration, and he means it, but the Opposition is not prepared to accept that the Northern Land Council will be included and wants it specified. I think that the provisions set out are reasonable, and I hope that the Minister will view the matter in the way that I have expressed it. I believe that this is the most vital clause in the legislation. 
-I think that some of the comments made by honourable, members opposite need proper balance and ought to be given proper consideration. The comments made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  are relevant in the spirit of federalism. It is pleasing to see the Opposition espousing the cause of federalism and of proper consultation between the Federal Government and the States. However, we should be aware that in August 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser),  as part of the package statement on the development and use of uranium in Australia, gave notice that there would be nation-wide regulations controlling the use and the transport of uranium and codes concerning uranium use. The States were given - 
He gave notice to the States and mentioned that this would be done in cooperation with the States and the Territories. He said that this is the way in which we would be moving. The States had notice of what the process would be. Within the last six weeks, there has been detailed contact between the Prime Minister and the Premiers on what was encompassed by and envisaged within this legislation. I point out that the Australian Government has strict obligations under the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. We have international obligations covering the way in which uranium is handled in Australia. We cannot deny those obligations and we must fulfil them in the international sense. 
If honourable members referred to the debate that took place last night on the Bill to amend the Atomic Energy Act, they would recognise that the Opposition failed to see that part of the obligations placed on the Australian Government are within the ambit of international controls of these commodities. It is all very well to say that we will place certain restrictions on our trading neighbours and that we will place restrictions on countries that buy our uranium but that we will not observe those restrictions within Australia. First of all, we in Australia must accept that we have international responsibilities. We must be prepared to fulfil those responsibilities. I think that the Government has moved in a responsive way. If the States want more time to discuss this matter, if they wish to consider what codes they might apply, that is a reasonable approach. I understand that the Government will be following that process. However, we cannot fall back to a situation in which we are prepared to deny our responsibility and in which we are prepared to set aside this legislation and not indicate firmly what our eventual intention will be. 
It seems that the Opposition is proposing that every State in Australia should be allowed the opportunity of having different or varying codes. In fact, one State might decide to have no codes at all because uranium is not of interest to it. That State may not have any uranium deposits, nor may uranium be transported through it. But, for example, within New South Wales we have a stockpile of yellowcake at the Lucas Heights establishment which is operated by the Atomic Energy Commission. That commodity has to be moved and it must be moved under international requirements. If the New South Wales Government were not to decide to enforce codes that were of the same strength or the same type as the 
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty imposes upon Australia, I am afraid that under those circumstances the Federal Government would have an obligation to override the wishes of the State Government. I think that it is a very simple matter. Let us have discussions but eventually recognise the ultimate responsibility of the Federal Government. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware of reports of proposed Australian and United States naval exercises in the Indian Ocean. Is there a particular reason for considerable newspaper comment on the exercises and is there anything exceptional about them? 
-The Government completely rejects the proposition put on behalf of the Opposition by the former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Government has approached this matter in a way in which the Opposition has not. First of all, the Government has endeavoured to assess the needs of people requiring accommodation. It has tried to assess the objectives of people requiring shelter and what is most beneficial for them, by seeing and talking to them and by finding out their needs. Without exception, people who have been interviewed regarding their family's requirements and the requirements of the community for housing listed certain matters as of importance. Home ownership was given primary importance. They considered it to be an Australian's right. There must be more involvement in a community if home ownership is to be achieved. There must be a greater sense of security for any group of people who have a permanent home which they own themselves. Home ownership provides an inbuilt protection from old age. There is more power over one's life and a pride in one 's family if home ownership can be brought about by any mechanism which is open to governments, whether it be by the instrument we have before us today or whether it be by instruments which are available to the Government through economic measures or any other measures. It gives families something to work for, and it also gives people a capacity to improve their lifestyles and their surroundings. 
The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement has been in existence for many years. I contend that this is the most enlightened legislation that we have seen in the House regarding the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It is termed the Housing Assistance Bill. The Housing Assistance Bill proposes assistance in two areas to families of low income. Firstly it provides assistance for home ownership, and secondly it provides for rental assistance for low income families. The Government supports both areas. It seeks to extend the capacity of people to provide shelter. It uses a government mechanism which operates through the Commonwealth to the various State governments. I am sure that all State governments have accepted this as being the most innovative and advanced program for housing that we have seen. At this point one must feel that the Government must be congratulated, as must be the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom). 
There is enthusiasm in the States, as my colleague says. There is enthusiasm for the ability this provision gives for State governments and individuals living in the States to provide shelter and accommodation for themselves and their families. 
The affordability of homes and the cost of housing in Australia are being examined by the Government at the moment. I refer the House to a document prepared by the Housing Industry Association for the twelfth national convention of the Association. The document is entitled Productivity and the Affordability of Houses'. The Housing Industry Association talks about the factors involved in affordable houses and mentions factors that comprise the cost of housing to the community. It covers home design, construction, the improved productivity that we are now seeing in Australia and the matching of construction techniques to material and design concepts. There have been many innovations in that area over the last five years which have reduced the term of the construction process. 
-I am afraid that one is in a quandary in regard to the Labor Party's position. Previously the Opposition was asking for effective consultation. Opposition supporters only have to read the amendments that have already been dealt with to find out that consultations must take place before the establishment of nuclear codes. It is in the legislation. It has been introduced in the amendments. Following that consultation, and with the assistance of an advisory council, the Government is to establish a draft code which is to lie on the table and be looked at in this House. There will be the right of discussion in the same way that a regulation is dealt with. During the period that that is happening here in this Parliament the State governments will be considering their attitudes to the code and whether or not they will implement it. It will be for the States to determine whether they will introduce a similar code, whether they can introduce a stronger code or whether not to introduce a code. 
I would like to know where in this process proper and effective provision for consultation on the protection of Australians and their health is denied. If the States are denied the capacity to make these decisions the Opposition will say that the States are irresponsible. In the view of the Opposition which State governments are irresponsible? Obviously the Opposition would say one group of State governments and obviously the Government would say another group of governments. Between us I think we would hold that they are all irresponsible. But if honourable members look at the alternative we would all say that the States are completely responsible. Which State governments does the Opposition distrust and why does it distrust them? There seems to be no valid reason for opposing the proposition that has been put by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  because under the amendments the legislation will allow the State governments a proper exercise of some of their capacities for the protection of the Australian community. 
The Commonwealth Government has the reserve powers; there is no doubt about that. The State governments felt threatened by these propositions so why not, in a sense of conciliation and true federalism, give them the opportunity to demonstrate their bona fides? If they cannot indicate to the Australian community that they are responsible and that they will seek to protect the members of their communities then it would seem to me that the reserve powers that the Commonwealth quite clearly has should be applied. That is what the Minister has said and that is what the Government has said. So I cannot see why the Opposition, in view of its previous arguments, opposes these measures. If on the other hand in fact it wishes to control the activities of the States the Opposition clearly has stated its position tonight. 
Is the Treasurer aware of the statement made by the Premier of New South Wales at the weekend concerning stage two of the Commonwealth's federalism policy? Can he assure the House that, as  Mr Wran  has announced there will be no change to charges and taxes in New South Wales, the policy must be a most generous one? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister would be aware of the concern expressed by housing industry representatives at the reduced number of building commencements last financial year. What impact will the Budget have on the housing industry? Will the Budget help and encourage the building industry and home buyers? 
-The freedom of this country is owed to those people who played a part in a number of contests of a world nature. Many of them are still alive and some of them are still serving in our defence services today. Provisions were made by this nation to reward those people who served in this way. I see the honourable and gallant Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  seated at the table. We know of the part that he, together with many others who have served this House, played. The initial defence service homes measures were introduced in recognition and appreciation in a national sense of those people who paid a sacrifice in regard to their careers or futures by meeting the call that was made on them by the nation. It is interesting to read that when these measures were introduced by  Senator Millen  on 1 2 December 1 9 1 8 he said:   . . we can add another section to the great work of repatriation, by the aid of which we hope to satisfactorily secure the re-instatement to civil life of members of the Australian Imperial Force. 
He went on to say: 
The purpose of the measure is to enable members of the Australian Imperial Force, and certain of their dependants, to secure homes. I want to stress the word 'homes', because the whole of the provisions of the Bill are conditioned by it. Those conditions provide that a man may borrow for the purpose of erecting a home which he will occupy as such. 
Since that time some changes have been made to the legislation, and today the House is continuing to debate changes brought forward by this Government. But the changes have been brought about over a period of years. If one compares the present scheme with those existing in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States of America and New Zealand, for instance, one finds that the Australian scheme is considerably superior in every respect to the schemes adopted in those countries. The present scheme has been providing about 7,000 homes each year for the last six years. It is recognised by servicemen and the community as being an important benefit to those who have served. However, from time to time a number of criticisms of these schemes have been brought forward. The criticism which has been recognised by the Government is the basis for making some of the changes which are currently before us in the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill 1 978. 
Civil servants in Australia, and the community at large, often look with envy on the condition of service that apply to Australian men serving in the forces. They look, for instance, at group rental schemes, at provisions for retirement benefits and at certain allowances and conditions and tend to consider that in times of peace those benefits are rather generous. It is not obvious to people who consider the type of work and the involvement of servicemen in our community that they may be called on to pay the supreme sacrifice of giving their lives in the service of the nation. Few people seem to be aware that, on a constant basis, servicemen are required to move with their families from place to place throughout Australia, often on a two-yearly basis, thereby disrupting home life, family life and the schooling of the children and thereby causing the onflowing effects which appertain in relation to the wellbeing of the children, their development and growth and their capacity to cope with the educational system. The effect of service is notable even in the fact that simple things such as motor vehicle licences can be a great problem for a family moving from place to place. Often the wives have to bear the brunt of these changes. As I have said, at times we fail to recognise that the serviceman may be required to give his life and pay the supreme sacrifice. At any time he is likely to be called to duty, whether it be within Australia or overseas. I think the attitude which is adopted during peacetime can be characterised by a couple of lines from Kipling's poem  Tommy.  Kipling says: 
O it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' 'Tommy, go away'; 
But it's 'Thank you, Mister Atkins,' when the band begins to play . . . 
The defence service homes legislation has not been introduced for the purpose of encouraging people to join the Services. It was introduced originally so that recognition would be paid to the service given to the nation by those who have served. It was meant to be a reward and a way in which the nation could say thank you to those people who had served it. It was only in 1973 that the legislation was changed. The changes effected then are again brought forward by the Opposition in its proposal that the steps outlined in this legislation should not go forward. The changes proposed in 1973 were that the legislation should apply to those members who had served for three years. The legislation brought forward at that time does not, in my view, make a distinction for length of service or for those who have served in a war zone. 
It seems to me that the original intention of the scheme is being subverted by that legislation. If the terms and conditions of service are not satisfactory and if the number of men coming forward to play their part in the defence Services is insufficient, other measures should be adopted; we should not be adopting this measure which is a traditional one for assisting those who are being paid a tribute by the nation. Really, how can it be equitable to compare a man who has served for only three years with those who have served for 20 years or more? How can we compare a man who has served for only three years with a man who has served in a place of war? I really do not think we can make those comparisons; nor do I feel that those types of servicemen can really be dealt with equally or thanked in the same way by this Parliament or by the people of the nation. Therefore some distinction should be made if recognition is to be given to men who have served the nation. This Government has made a move to give proper recognition to those who have served the nation, and providing for six years service is one measure which is designed to achieve that end. Other provisions contained in this legislation will give the Defence Service Homes Corporation the capacity to apply a needs test to those who have served. Therefore, those who have served in war zones, those who have served for long periods, I trust will be given some sort of favoured treatment in the application of the measures that are envisaged by this Bill. 
Some of the criticism that has come forward over a period of time is to the effect that no differentiation is made between applicants with different levels of need and differences in the periods of service given. That criticism basically is being coped with by this legislation. Another criticism is that there is a cumbrous administration causing delays. The requirements of the scheme are not normally those which apply in the housing field, and that therefore creates some difficulties for servicemen. Second mortgages have become common place and the current limited loan can be said to be going only to those who can afford a second mortgage. I think that is a valid criticism. The administration costs of the scheme compared with those of other housing organisations, and the benefits being provided by the expenditure involved, require close attention. It is interesting to note that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure has devoted a report to just those factors. Those criticisms in fact have been proved justified. 
A new flexibility is needed in the scheme and a new sense of reward is needed also. I think that the reserving of the 3.75 per cent interest rate for war service or for those who have served for 20 years should always stay. I believe that that sort of recognition should remain in the nation. In that way the country can pay its tribute. But, in my view, there should be a varying interest rate for varying periods of service so that those who have served for the least time receive the least benefit by way of the very generous interest rate concessions. The fact that the Expenditure Committee investigated this area is significant. It came forward with a number of comments. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the comments it made on the large staff used to administer this program, and to the comment that it made about the need for a better definition of what the defence service homes scheme really should be about. I would encourage the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  to take these comments on board and continue to meet some of the criticisms that have been made. The Government has moved in that direction to a considerable degree. We can still move further. 
Better information is needed about the payment of benefits and the real cost savings that are applicable to beneficiaries. Alternate schemes, whereby the benefits of low interest rates can be administered far more cheaply, can be proposed. The cost of processing new applicants is another area of which the Committee was critical. It is interesting to note, in regard to the cost features, the role of the Australian Postal Commission. The report states: 
In other words for the person whose monthly repayments are $73.82 (the monthly repayment for a $15,000 loan over 32 years) the commission is $1.71 a month. This figure appears to be quite high, and has led the Committee to look for more economical ways of collecting instalments than the APC system. 
One sees that something over 2 per cent is being charged by the Australian Postal Commission- an inordinately high fee- for conducting the service in this case. I recommend that different ways of administering repayments be undertaken. In fact, I would encourage the Government to consider whether an agreement could be made with traditional lending bodies so that the repayments normally made by borrowers for second mortgages could include repayments to the Department of Veterans' Affairs. Such a mechanism is most easily recognised; such a mechanism could be most easily introduced. 
The 1973 changes produced a rapid expansion of the program, caused delays and altered the recognition for service. Perhaps, instead of moving in the direction adopted by the previous Government, the approach presently taken could continue and eligible members could be issued with a certificate which would grant them recognition of their service. That would then become an entitlement to purchase a home under the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Act. When a person wished to buy a home it would be quite easy for him to go to a building society, bank or other approved lending organisation, present his defence service homes entitlement and state to the providers of the additional finance: 'There is my contribution, which has been given to me in recognition of my service to the nation'. Then the lending organisation could take up that certificate, provide the second mortgage and administer a simple and concise scheme with a minimum of cost to the Australian people, as well as provide additional funds for this important area of housing. 
The fact that some 80 per cent of loans are for $15,000 or above indicates that maximum funding is required by the majority of users of the defence service homes scheme. In my judgment, that indicates that in nearly 80 per cent of cases a second mortgage would be required. Therefore, a simply administered scheme such as we are tending to move towards would improve efficiency greatly. In my view, the use of computers and modern techniques could reduce administrative costs to something like 1 per cent instead of the 2.31 per cent being charged by the Australian Postal Commission. That high charge represents a substantial loss to the beneficiaries. On referring to the Committee's report on the scheme, the number of people employed in administering the scheme catches the eye immediately. In New South Wales alone to administer the scheme 304 people are required. Of this number, 79 are employed in the general financing area. Some are concerned with the internal audit and some with welfare and other operations. A total of 1 ,046 people is employed in the administration of the scheme throughout Australia. That is a large number of people to administer a fairly simple scheme. The welfare role adopted by the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the Defence Service Homes Corporation is notable and one that should continue. However, in my view, insofar as total financing, day-to-day accounting and such matters are concerned, changes for the good of the scheme could easily be made. The changes brought about by the Bill will go only part way, but they are nevertheless highly significant. They include a provision that persons who commence full-time service in the Defence Force on or after 17 August 1977 will become eligible for a loan on completion of six years' full-time service subject to a commitment to render such service. 
Again, the Defence Service Homes Corporation will give a measure of preference in the allocation of loans to those whose eligibility is based on war service and, I understand, need. I do not think any honourable member agrees with the contention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in saying, of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs: 
The fact that the honourable member for Curtin has been able, for six months, to run the Veterans' Affairs portfolio from the other side of the world emphasises how unnecessary it is for this portfolio to have its own Minister. 
I refute completely that attitude and approach to the administration of this most important area, concerned as it is with the recognition of the service of men to this nation over a long period of time, and of service that they will continue to give. They have given time and training, dedicated their lives to important areas of our defence and sacrificed many family pleasures and enjoyments that the average citizen benefits from in order to take part in a fine and proud career in the service of the nation. The Government rejects completely the concepts contained in the Opposition's proposed amendment. I support the Bill. 
I think that we have heard nothing new again from the Australian Labor Party on this issue today. What it has failed to recognise is that if we are to talk about the industry and not home buyers, which is the way in which the matter is framed, we must talk of the whole of the building and housing industry. The Opposition has shown no concern for the home buyer and all concern for the industry and the people who are involved. There should be concern, but the major concern should be to meet the market and to try to meet the needs of people who wish to buy or rent homes. The matter leaves that aside. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  have taken up matters concerning the industry. Their concern does not apply to the general economic circumstances of the country. They fail to recognise the importance of reducing the inflation rate and interest rates and the effects that they have on the home buyer and the cost of buildings. 
One of the most important and incredible features of the Labor Party's Administration was the massive impact it had on those factors of interest rates and inflation. The cost of homes in Australia rose in one year by 32 per cent simply because of the policies of the people who sit opposite. How can people buy homes and plan under those circumstance if they have to meet a commitment that increases by 32 per cent per annum? They cannot meet it. It gets continually further and further away from them. The role and the dedication of this Government have been to reverse those policies and trends so that in fact today the cost of buildings is rising by about 6 per cent or 7 per cent per annum and the cost of labour in the industry is rising by about 8 per cent per annum. Those are the circumstances that the Australian people want and need in order to be able to purchase their homes, to become renters or buyers and to establish shelter for themselves and their families. 
In addition to that, significant steps have been taken, as the industry itself recognises. I quote from the news sheet of the Housing Industry Association in which it says: 
The Federal Government will continue to receive substantial support from the Housing Industry Association for its overall budgetary strategy, in particular its thrust against inflation. HIA fully appreciates that further reductions in the rate of inflation will lead to sustainable reduction in interest rates in the long term. 
There is the organisation from which the Leader of the Opposition has plucked some ideas which are before the Government and the community for consideration, and he said 'Here is my plan'. The Leader of the Opposition has presented this plan and, as I understand it, has taken no heed of his so-called alternative Budget. His alternative Budget is shot to pieces already. By today's effort he has shot his own alternative Budget to pieces. He is prepared to make willy-nilly decisions, and he is not even in the chamber. The Leader of the Opposition has operated in this way for many years and it is interesting to note his high regard for the taxpayers and for economic administration. Even on 14 March this year he said: 
Personal taxes are pretty much at the limit and people are resisting any further increases. 
Yet here today, a week after he brought in his alternative Budget, he is saying that he will further increase taxes. This level of responsibility is shown by his colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the shadow Treasurer, who said: 
If Labor does not gain office next election then by 1983 ... we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector- and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
That is the thinking which has not changed and which we deplore when we come to deal with the housing industry and the needs of home buyers in Australia today. This Government has taken significant steps as the need to do so has arisen. It has made modifications to the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to allow people buying a home to borrow up to 100 per cent of their financial requirements. No other government has taken these steps; this Government has. It has allowed those people who have some capacity to purchase their own homes to do so. We reintroduced the homes savings grant scheme. The former Government cut out the grants completely. Yet today we heard the Leader of the Opposition say: 'This Government has fiddled with the scheme slightly. That is deplorable'. He was not even prepared to reintroduce the grants. He stood aside while they were completely cut out. The home savings grant scheme was abandoned by the Australian Labor Party. He was not even prepared to say in the House today that he would not do the same again. I warrant that, given the same opportunity, the Labor Party again would abandon the home savings grant scheme. 
There have been significant changes made to the Commonwealth-States housing agreement which will permit greater flexibility and provide a source of funds to the States to reinvest into housing. The new agreement is ordered to allow the States a greater capacity, as homes are turned over and sold, to reinvest in their own right for the provision of welfare housing. I sound a note of caution to the House today when we look at the state of the housing industry. I think that we need to consider exactly where we are going and what our future demands are likely to be. Despite factors such as the Real Estate Institute of Australia saying that it looks forward to a very happy future- the Institute is content with the turnover in the number of homes being sold and the availability of home renters and buyersthere will be a need to examine very closely the housing demand in Australia. 

 Dr John Patterson, the managing director of John Patterson Urban Systems Pty Ltd, in his assessment of the needs for Australian housing, draws attention to the fact that the birth rate in Australia has declined from nearly 2 per cent per annum in 1 97 1 to a little more than 1 per cent per annum at present. Even in 1975-76, the worst year of building activity, when building completions were down to 132,000 units, completions represented 3.2 per cent of the dwelling stocks.  Dr Patterson  is saying that we are building homes faster than we may need to build them. I think it would be worth while for the Government and the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry to take up studies such as that done by  Dr Patterson  to establish what level of building is needed in Australia today and to establish a firm level for the provision of homes in the future. 
Indeed, we should be looking at the rate at which families are established. If that were done I think that we would obtain more reliable figures on what the building industry should be doing. I do not think we can continue to have a building industry that builds for the sake of building. It is most regrettable that we have lost skills in the industry because the requirements for them have not existed. But it is welcome news to read an advertisement placed by the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd within the last few days in which it was stated that the Bank has tens of millions of dollars to lend to home buyers. That is the extent of the availability of funds in Australia today. The ANZ Bank has funds available. Within the last few days  Mr Cameron  of the Australian Bankers Association has said that building approvals have increased dramatically and that the availability of homes is not limited by finance. 
In fact, we need to look at the over-building that has taken place in South Australia and Victoria where there is a surplus of homes. At the end of June, 32 per cent of homes built were unsold. Normally, only 15 per cent of homes built are unsold at the end of a month. The socialist structure in South Australia under  Mr Dunstan,  where we have a land commission, has completely ruined the State's housing industry. Massive stocks of houses remain unsold. 
The Commonwealth Government has taken steps in the housing area and will continue to do so. We have managed the industry effectively so that there is stability in it. There is no shortage of funds. Both the building societies and the banks say that they have adequate funds available to cope with the demand. The Government will modify its policies as necessary. It has proved that it is a Government which is seeking stability in that important industry. By its policies it has demonstrated its capacity to manage. This was not demonstrated by the previous Administration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The debate is now concluded. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of his recent comments on unemployment in Australia, will he be so good as to  inform  the House of developing trends in the area of employment? What are the likely outcomes of current government examinations of this subject? 
I am most concerned with the vein running through this debate. It would seem to me from the comments made by members of the Opposition that inherent in the matter raised for discussion is the fact that if the Australian Council of Trade Unions is not allowed to do certain things and is not allowed to proceed down a certain line of action industrial problems will follow. I consider this to be an instance of an attempt to blackmail the Australian Government into agreeing with an illegal action. We hear of strike action while courts are sitting. We hear of threats being made while courts are finding on industrial problems. I can give instances of small groups of key personnel outside the court seeking to influence the courts by refusing to work and by bringing industries to a standstill. Recently we had problems with waterside workers and other personnel on the waterside, with the New South Wales Railways and with petrol maintenance workers. Small key groups have been seeking to disrupt the Austraiian way of life and the Australian economy. They have been seeking to influence the decisions of government and the courts. They have been seeking to influence those people with responsibility and other responsible unionists. Usually the findings of courts in such circumstances is that no decision will be made until there is a return to work and industrial peace. Most disputes are over wages and conditionsgenuine claims that relate to workers. 
The spokesmen for the Opposition in the discussion of this matter of public importance have said that unless the Government yields to what may be an illegal suggestion by the ACTU there will be industrial unrest. It seems that the ACTU and the Labor Party are not concerned about unemployment, about women in the work force and about other important measures. They are prepared, for a blatant political stunt, to walk out of an important conference in an endeavour to blackmail this Government into accepting an illegal action. The matter is as simple as that. It is a blatant use of force by the union movement to get its own way against reasonable people who are proposing reasonable action on behalf of the Australian community. 
The Opposition has said that it will discuss matters that are relevant to ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd in the councils of this country only if it gets its own way. Rules for air travel have been developed on a government to government basis to protect individuals. Important decisions are sought to be overturned by ACTU Jetset.  Mr Hawke, President  of the ACTU, endeavoured to force the Government to give him a commercial favour by blatantly threatening industrial trouble. The commercial favour involves some $10m. It will be a $10m advantage to the union movement if the Government will agree. If it will not agree there will be industrial stoppages and standover tactics. These tactics are commonly used and were blatantly displayed yesterday by the  President  of the 
ACTU. The $10m is the difference between what people would normally pay for their air travel and what the ACTU has been able to work out by private deals with some airline or other. The $ 10m is illegal money at this stage. 
Companies and individuals who have endeavoured to adopt these techniques but have been investigated have been forced to stop. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  mentioned AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd. It was taken to the High Court of Australia and prevented from continuing its actions which were illegal. The provisions in international agreements are included for the safety, protection and the types of services offered to passengers, not just for fares. The ACTU has said that it will disregard those provisions and will make a deal with some airline that has not been named- a foreign airline, not Qantas Airways Ltd- in such a way that it will gain $ 10m. How will it get these funds? Who will they come from? Will they come from the airline in the form of direct cash payments? Will laundered money be flowing through some other avenue into the funds of ACTU Jetset? Where will that money come from? Will it come from the pockets of the workers, their union fees? I think that of the large number of unionists in Australia, the small number who will travel will be a very privileged group if this scheme is to operate from unionists' funds and fees paid to their legitimate organisations. 
Will the funds in fact come from the airline which will state that the declared fare is the legal one but, by some technique, it will pay a kickback; it will give a back door access to a discount which will go straight into the funds of ACTU Jetset. It will be a foreign airline. Qantas has about 10,000 Australian employees. They include people who do not fly the aircraft. The majority of employees are members of the Transport Workers Union, maintenance workers, metal workers and miscellaneous workers. Hawke has left them; he has dumped them and has said that he will take on the best foreign airline that will give him the biggest discount. That is his support for the Australian workers. He was supposed to be involved in a conference on unemployment. What did he do? He walked out of the conference on unemployment to create unemployment by doing a deal with a foreign company. I do not know what members of the Opposition will stand for. I do not know why they have brought this matter into the House today. 
I cannot understand the proposition. The proposition in my view is simply this: The Labor 
Party yields to the demands of unions of this country concerning an illegal action that the unions or their spokesmen wish to carry out; otherwise there will be trouble. It seems perfectly unreasonable that the Opposition should support the ACTU in this way. I think it certainly should be seeking to gain cheap air fares for the workers of the nation. I do not think that Bob Hawke is a poor man's Freddy Laker. I think in this instance he is more likely to turn out to be a Peter Huxley. We will find the funds involved in some account that cannot be audited, about which nobody will have details or information and to which nobody can gain access. I do not think any worker will be able to tell whether he is contributing to the $10m gained by the ACTU or whether in fact that money will come from a foreign airline. 
Let us look at the record of the ACTU. Let us look at Bourke 's Melbourne Pty Ltd. How many cheap shirts is it selling today to the workers of this nation? That was a great success! I have a small document concerning cheap petrol and the way in which that was achieved. This document is entitled 'Circumstances of the Transfer of Allocated Indigenous Crude Oil by Allied Petrochemicals Pty Limited to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Limited'. The Royal Commission on Petroleum which was set up to examine a business enterprise undertaken by ACTUSolo, the same union movement and the same leader that are involved in cheap air fares, found that they misled the Labor Government; in fact the Minister was completely deceived. Those are the words that are used in this document. Now we have another stunt of exactly the same type. This is the third stunt in train. But members of the Opposition suggest today that the intervention of the Government to take responsible action for all Australians might cause industrial unrest. 
This Government will not play favourites; it will not seek to exert influence on Ministers in the way in which the ACTU exerted influence on  Mr Connor  when the Labor Government was in power. This Government is determined to introduce low cost air fares that will benefit all Australians without discrimination, including all members of unions and all people who are not in unions. There will be no kickbacks; there will be no undisclosed accounts. People will understand where the funds are. They will understand that the Government has acted responsibly to do a good deal for them and is not seeking a dishonest advantage for itself. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Committee some of the elements that comprise the estimates for the Department of Transport, particularly in regard to information being sought and statistics being gathered as to those aspects that will allow sensible and well-planned decisions to be made in regard to transport. I refer particularly to those sections of transport that impinge upon Australia's export capacity. Recent figures that I have to hand indicate that transport costs for Australian export goods have risen by something over 700 per cent in the past 7 years. Costs in comparable countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United States of America and New Zealand, range between a 250 percent and a 350 per cent increase in the same seven years. This leads one to examine in detail some of the factors that influence the increased costs of freight and the increased cost of transporting Australian goods from the place of manufacture or production to their place of sale, the eventual delivery point. 
One can break down these costs into three factors. The first is the land-based factor- the cost of transport from the factory or farm to the seaboard. There are often intermediate handling stages which add to the costs. One is very interested to see the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation and similar primary producer-type bodies, whether they be statutory or simply voluntary grower bodies, in attempting to minimise the number of handlings and the costs that accrue to increased handling through any system. I think that the work of the Australian Wool Corporation should be commended, both for the statistical information it provides, its analysis of cost factors and the steps it has taken to minimise the number of times that bales of wool are handled. 
However, that cannot be said for most Australian exporting industries. Information is extremely scarce as to the handling charges and the cost of those handling charges on the land element of freight cost. One has to search far and wide to get relevant statistics and relevant information. The Bureau of Transport Economics is doing some important work with particular commodities. However, it would be my view that what we need to do as best we can is to assess the broad range of land-based costs. I suggest to the Government that some effort be made to assess the costs of a broad range of commodities that can be attributed to the movement overland from farm or factory to the seaboard. 
I come now to the second factor that one must consider when one looks at the cost of Australian freight charges. That is the repackaging of bulk freight into containers and the movement of those containers to ships, and the more simple handling process for moving general cargo from the wharf into the vessel. For the purpose of this discussion I intend to concentrate on general cargoes. I draw to the attention of the Committee the change that has taken place in the mode of handling cargoes in Australia over the last 10 years. With the introduction of containerisation great advantages have been taken by many freight handling companies and snipping companies. In many instances I am unsure what direct advantage has flowed to the Australian producer. One would question the way in which charges are decided. I think that the ready answer from such handlers and shipping companies would be that they have been able to delay increases rather than to give other real, direct benefits to Australian producers or exporters. 
Be that as it may, the cost of handling on the Australian waterfront has brought about an increasing and dynamic will to increase the mechanisation of handling of cargo. A great number of jobs have been lost on the Australian waterfront. One need look only at the Australian waterfront to become concerned about the cost of disruption. The public at large tends to look at the Australian Waterside Workers Federation and to say that it is to blame. I think that is a simplistic approach. The Australian community is uninformed as to what happens on the waterfront. It is quite easy for a small unionmaintenance workers, members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union- to close down the whole waterfront in Sydney or Melbourne and to prevent movement of all freight. As few as 28 men may be involved. Within a few days the dispute can flow over to the Federated Clerks Union, the Transport Workers Union and the Australian Workers Union. In that way a small number of peoplenot necessarily waterside workers- can cause a long disruption. We have seen that recently in Australia. 
Whilst the major debate and discussion about the cost of labour and the conditions that should apply for the next two years started with the Australian Waterside Workers Federation, that disruption flowed on to many other uinons and stoppages, disputes and disruption occurred- the public generally thinking that it was caused by the waterside workers. When one hears the secretary of that Federation say that there should be only one union servicing the waterfront one is inclined to agree with him for the sake of industrial peace and sensible decision-making. Whether that will ever happen in Australia, I do not know. I think there is much to be said for it coming about. If that is not possible, however, I think as Australians we must be aware that the increased mechanisation that has taken place will continue as shippers, ship owners and cargo handlers try to break down the level of manpower on the waterfront. 
The recent dispute in Sydney and Melbourne cost one company $lm in seven days. One shipping company has told me that one of the six vessels it had on the Australian route took 31 days to go through the Australian system, instead of nine. The cost per day of that vessel was $23,000. Such increased costs will be borne by Australian industry and Australian exporters in the form of higher charges. Those costs come back to the Australian citizen, who has to bear the load eventually. I think it is unfortunate that we have not been able to apply our minds sufficiently well to prevent activities of this type from taking place. 
Sea freight is the third factor I would like to discuss. The way in which freight rates are set between shipping conferences and individual producers or between conferences and the Australian Shippers Council is an important feature in settling freight charges. Freights have risen regularly. One of the real difficulties that we have as a nation is that we are completely dependent on ship owners to move our goods and in that way to earn our export income. The entry of nonconference lines into the Australian shipping route has had a fairly significant impact on the increase in the cost of freight. At this stage I would think that the entry of non-conference shipping lines has been basically beneficial. It has forced conference lines to contain their cost increases and demands. However, one must maintain a watching brief on the activity of nonconference lines to see that their charges are legitimate and in fact are not being subsidised by a foreign government in order to gain too large a percentage of the Australian market and in that way to hold Australian exporters to ransom. 
I hope that the Government can see its way clear to study the details and the conditions that have to be met by Australian exporters and identify real cost increases so that by appropriate action with the will of all the people involvedthe exporter, the purchaser and government departments- the best result can be achieved. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Education I bring to the attention of the Committee some facts about literacy and numeracy. I have before me a document prepared by the Secretary of the Australian Council for Adult Literacy,  Mr George  Harvey. The document is entitled 'An Exploratory Analysis of Highest Level of Schooling Attended and Highest Level of Qualifications Obtained'. It begins by pointing out some of the problems young people have in obtaining a proficiency in basic skills through the schooling system. A survey on adult illiteracy in English conducted by  Dr Judith  Goyen in Sydney indicates that at least 43.3 per cent of adults born in foreign-language countries do not have the literacy skills necessary for survival in this country and that this figure may be as high as 55.8 per cent.  Dr Goyen  also noted that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties reported that among those adults seeking literacy courses the 15 to 20 year age groups and 20 to 25 year age groups together constituted 57.6 per cent of all participants. Facts presented to the House of Representatives during parliamentary debates in 1974 indicated that 45.7 per cent of secondary school students were in need of specialist remedial reading and 25 per cent read so badly as to be classified as functionally illiterate. 
I raise this matter in the Parliament today because I am most concerned with the impact that literacy and numeracy skills may have on young people who are seeking jobs. One of the commonest comments made by employers is that young people do not possess the skills that they seek. I am not stating that the skills currently required are below the skills that were required 10 or 20 years ago; nor can I state that they are better. I am stating that the skills currently available to young people are not those which are required by the community to a large extent. It is interesting to note that, within the employment area, a recent survey of 100 employers conducted by the Trinity Grammar School in Sydney indicated that their greatest desire was to have greater skills in the literacy and numeracy area. 
An analysis of the percentage distribution of the population in Australia who were not attending school in 1971 indicated that, according to various tables prepared during the census of that year, 1.5 per cent of the population had not attended school or had attended infant school only. A further 2.9 per cent attended year 3 or year 4 of primary school, with a total of 22.1 per cent who had not proceeded beyond primary school or who had had no secondary school education. In 1971 one quarter of our population had had no secondary school education. It can also be noted that 20.6 per cent of the population had attended secondary school for only year 1 or year 2 and that a further 21.2 per cent had left school on the completion of year 3. So in total the education of 65.4 per cent of children had not proceeded beyond the equivalent of year 3 in secondary schooling. That is not a surprising figure. The surprising figure is the number of children who had not gone beyond primary school. 
The Government has adopted a number of programs which are of assistance to young people who lack basic skills. These basic skills are not obvious to those people who have the opportunity to use them each day. But let me assure the Committee that the capacity to look up names in telephone books, to use street directories effectively, to fill in all sorts of statutory forms is absolutely vital for people to make a successful contribution to and to participate successfully in modern day life. It is a fact that today an individual is required to read 20 times more compulsory leaflets or documents than he was 1 7 years ago. That in itself means that the number of basic skills necessary to conduct oneself with dignity in our community has risen quite markedly. 
The Government has made commitments to special programs in which various government departments, apart from the Department of Education, have been involved. I am interested to note that the Government is in the process of co-ordinating the results of various programs that have been conducted by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, as well as by departments such as the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Those departments have made a very important input to that area of adult literacy. It is my view that these programs should be conducted with an overview by the Department of Education in such a way that they have the proper educational content. They should be conducted in such a way that some of the problems that have been made obvious in recent surveys are overcome and that the young people themselves are assisted. 
It is interesting to note that that part of the Henderson report on poverty which dealt with education stated that, following an extensive survey and interview conducted by Professor Henderson, it was found that in order for people to have a satisfactory work life literacy and numeracy were crucial in the gaining and holding of a job. But, having achieved a job, it is very difficult for a person with a low level of skills to feel confident enough to leave that job and to apply for further jobs. I believe he has to be able to win jobs, hold jobs and to change jobs. Henderson found that basic skills of literacy and numeracy were absolutely vital to giving one a sense of wellbeing and a sense of confidence. 
I commend the Government for the program that it has introduced. I commend the Government for the co-ordination that it is achieving between the various departments. A rational and comprehensive approach to this serious issue is taking place. However, further progress is needed, in my view. I would like to see all educational authorities throughout Australia commit themselves solidly to overcoming the problems of literacy and numeracy. The lack of those basic skills that honourable members in this House take for granted has to be overcome. In achieving that end, some of the techniques that are already in use would be most helpful. The remedial courses being conducted by technical and further educational bodies are most helpful in that regard. I think we need to look at the volunteer tutor program being conducted in Britain. That involves people with the capacity to read and to write and to do basic figuring passing on those skills. They are not teachers; they are people who have a wealth of practical experience which can be readily communicated to those people who do not have those skills. I understand that the British scheme is working extremely successfully. 
Part of our problem with unemployment in Australia is that young people do not know how to approach employment. They do not properly know how to fill their roles once they are employed. Further, much of that lack of certainty and lack of confidence can be sheeted home to their basic lack of skills. We must as a nation take careful note of the current requirements of industry and of the work place. They must be met by our educational institutions. Emphasis should be placed, first of all, on those basic requirements so that a person can enjoy not only his employment but also his culture and his leisure time. The filling out of a personality must start with the acquisition of skills which will allow that person a ready capacity to move to wider and bigger horizons. He must be able to extend his personality and to become far more effective as an Australian citizen. 
-I am disturbed that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  the Opposition spokesman on this matter, in his speech was so light on substance and so strong on abuse of my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  It is obvious that the honourable member for Blaxland is not concerned about economic recovery. The matter of public importance before the House tonight talks about economic recovery, but we heard not one word from the honourable member about economics or the state of this nation. I will read to him some comments that were made in tonight's newspapers. The honourable member said that this was not a matter for this House. An article in one newspaper stated: 
The executive director of the Bread Manufacturers Association . . . said today: 'Home deliveries of bread and milk will be cut unless the State Government considers deliveries are an essential service. 'Some bakeries use oil-fired ovens, and a shortage of fuel would prevent baking. ' 
Another article referred to what  Mr Darling,  the Executive Director of the Employers Federation of New South Wales, said about the situation. In this article he is reported as saying: 
Bread, food processing, brick and rubber manufacturing businesses would be the first to collapse in the fuel shortage . . . 
He is reported also as saying: 
They are the heaviest users of fuel oil and it all depends how much they have got in stock . . . 
The article continued: 
The continual fuel disputes have already cost the jobs of 2,000 service station employees. 
In Melbourne yesterday, Federal Arbitration Commissioner  Mr H.  G. Neil - 
The honourable member says this is not a Federal matter-  called on the ACTU and Federal officials of the unions involved to end the Banksmeadow strike. 
These newspaper articles put the matter into perspective. The effect that this stoppage has had on Sydney in particular over a period of one month has been that Sydney has been practically without fuel over that period. The strike has affected the productivity of New South Wales. It also has threatened jobs and in fact been responsible for the loss of jobs. It has interfered with the movement of goods and services and supplies to industry. Yet the honourable member for Blaxland says that it is not a matter for the Federal Parliament when this strike is affecting not only New South Wales but also other States. 
What has the New South Wales Government done? When the strike commenced one month ago it was kept quiet. 
A month ago. There was no action of any type from the New South Wales Government, which endeavoured to keep this matter quiet until the State election was over. But the election is over and there is still no action. The State Government claims that it will call on emergency powers. It has made all sorts of promises to assist the people of this State. But there has been no action. For one month a small group has been able to hold to ransom the State of New South Wales, and that small group has been assisted by groups in other States. There has been an arrangement between a small number of unionists from different unions, who are not elected or recognised members of the executives of those unions, to disrupt and destroy the system. These people are the ones who decided over a period of time to adopt a strategy to interfere with the wellbeing, the commerce, the trade, the productivity and the economic wealth of New South Wales and this nation. 
One union was involved in the Shell stoppage that commenced about a month ago. That union has been followed in the last few days by other groups at Caltex. There has been a rolling dispute between unions and different companies and the disruptive effective has been planned and dramatic. I think that in other circumstances it could almost be termed a conspiracy on the part of this small group of unelected union people. The Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union basically was responsible for the dispute, which began on 15 September when that union became involved in a new agreement that was to begin during that month. Because agreement was not reached, the case was put before  Mr Commissioner  Neil. He was not satisfied that there was a real work value case involved in that dispute. On 20 September work bans and overtime bans were imposed by the AMWSU. It seems to me that there is clear proof that the union was not prepared to accept the judgment of the referee, the judgment of  Mr Commissioner  Neil, and the union took the matter to bans and dispute regardless of his recommendations. 
Hearings took place on the 24th and 25th of last month. The dispute was started one month ago and it has been contrived to extend the dispute over a period of one month. The matter dragged on until groups of retailers- people responsible for selling fuel- in New South Wales took responsible action on behalf of the motorists of that State and banded together to use an organisation known as Southern Cross. This company was formed in an endeavour to import fuel into New South Wales. The company was told by the Transport Workers Union that individual members of the company would be prevented from getting fuel both in the short term and for a period of three months after the settlement of the dispute. 
It is a clear case of a secondary boycott. I am sure that the honourable member who made the interjection is on the ball and recognises the seriousness of saying to people: 'You will not earn your living and you will not provide a service and a commodity to the people of your State'. The question of a secondary boycott was raised. This illustrates the determination of a group of unionists to bring the industry to its knees and to harm the wellbeing of the State of New South Wales and, if possible the wellbeing and economic recovery of the nation. It illustrates a determination to prevent the use of fuel- a precious and important commodity that is vital to the life blood of this nation. 
There was a clear breach of section 45 D of the Trade Practices Act by the Transport Workers Union which claimed that it was not in breach of that section. I am informed today that that union is continuing its tactics; it is continuing to adopt the practice of threatening not to supply for long periods any individual in New South Wales who will take on board and sell fuel that is imported from Victoria. I am told that at present there is not one transport company in Victoria that is prepared to supply fuel across the border to New South Wales- and members of the Opposition say that this is not a federal matter. It is a clear case of a breach of section 45D and the penalties and fines should be applied, if possible, to those individuals and to those organisations involved. 
This current dispute involves partly the Shell company, just as the previous dispute involved that company. Now the Caltex company has become involved. The whole dispute involves a nation-wide co-ordination. No recognised union leader is involved in the current dispute. It is a wildcat dispute. Today Sydney is at a standstill. On speaking to people in that fine city, the centre of commerce and industry, the key to productivity and national economic recovery of this nation, I was told that there was not one thing moving. How many employees turned up to work at Grace Bros, about which the honourable member for Blaxland was talking? How many people were on the job? How many people could get to work? 
Of course things cannot progress, of course things cannot improve whilst this type of activity continues. The community is sick and tired of minority groups of this type, small numbers of employees, which refuse to recognise the improved channels of conciliation and arbitration, which refuse to recognise the proper processes of law and refuse to settle their disputes in the proper place with the proper people. Twenty per cent of the national domestic product is involved in the movement of goods. Practically the whole community, though, is affected by the shortage of fuel. There must be a use of conciliation and arbitration. There must be some effort on the part of the New South Wales Government because the community is sick and tired of people who stand still on these matters; unions which abuse their position; employers who do not play ball with their employees; and governments which ignore dramatic and serious circumstances that affect the economic recovery of this nation. 
-The ultimate responsibility for government expenditure lies with this Parliament. Whether funds are expended by commissions, departments or other government instrumentalities, the ultimate responsibility rests with this House. Members of Parliament are elected to scrutinise and to ensure protection of the community at large, to ensure that proper procedures take place and that the process of expenditure is both effective and to the public benefit. 
This Government has adopted an interesting technique in its proposal to instigate an efficiency audit. This is something of which I believe the community unassociated with government has been in search for a long time. Members of Parliament too often hear complaints- unwarranted complaints- about the Public Service. The public at large who are the taxpayers have little contact with the Public Service and feel that large amounts of their money is collected for which they see little benefit. It is the responsibility of members of this place and of the Public Service to reassure the community at large and in fact to justify and account in detail for their activities and their roles on behalf of the community. 
The Parliament through its agent, the AuditorGeneral, conducts audits and carries out a scrutiny on behalf of the community. It would seem to me that perhaps the Parliament and the Government should consider whether the Auditor-General should become an officer of the Parliament and be directly responsible to the Parliament rather than be the head of a quasidepartment of the Public Service. Such a role for the Auditor-General would make him responsible to the  Speaker.  He could, as in the House of Commons, present his case to the Parliament at large, and, through the activities of the Public Accounts Committee be recognised as an officer and an agent of the Parliament and, therefore, of the community and the Australian nation. It is often the view that the Public Service is unfeeling, not understanding and in fact not directly responsible to the Australian people. This is most unfortunate as is the view often held that members of Parliament are not caring or directly responsible. Members of Parliament and the Public Service recognise their responsibilities and their roles. Every technique that can be undertaken to encourage greater confidence and a greater awareness of the dedication, particularly of the Public Service, will benefit the nation and bolster the confidence of the community. I believe there is a close link between the examination of efficiency and the level of productivity that is maintained or achieved within any government service and within any public sector. An interesting link is established by the Australian Society of Accountants in its bulletin entitled: 'Efficiency Audits in Government'. The Australian Society of Accountants defines this matter by saying: 
Economy and efficiency audit- determines whether the entity is managing or utilising its resources (personnel, property, space and so forth ) in an economical and efficient manner and the causes of any inefficiencies or uneconomical practices, including inadequacies in management information systems, administrative procedures or organisational structure. 
In my view it is not a particularly successful definition but it does in fact indicate, from an accounting point of view, the close link between efficiency and productivity. I believe that productivity is not connected completely with just the sheer production of goods or services. It is not in fact an indication of how hard anybody works and it should not determine what goods or services should be produced. It does not reflect what is good of bad and it does not reflect the quality of life in the community. Productivity in fact is the area in which all the resources that are necessary are brought together so that the community, the employees and those responsible gain the ultimate benefit of remuneration, greater satisfaction or a better delivery of the services that they are offering or a combination of all for the least cost. It would seem to me that an examination of productivity within government departments and the public sector is a key factor in the establishment of efficiency audit. The two overlap and productivity measures, in my view, must be considered by the Auditor-General in assessing the efficiency of government departments or various procedures. 
Productivity is more than efficiency, performance and effectiveness but these are all important elements. I believe productivity is a belief in human progress- progress in every aspect for those who are involved in any one enterprise. Society makes demands on the private sector for an ability to fulfil certain requirements. Governments, however, only have two tools with which to respond to public demand- regulations and money. The way in which regulations or money interact and react with the community is the ultimate test of efficiency and also productivity. Government productivity and government efficiency are, in part, a management role. In the diversities of its roles and enterprises, government resembles a giant conglomerate. In business conglomeration affords efficiencies of scale but this does not apply generally to government. The larger the government enterprise, the more often we have decreased efficiency or decreased productivity. The absence of a competitive market, of course, is the distinctive difference between the levels of productivity in the public and private sectors. This provides a stimulus for people to achieve, a stimulus for people to take measurements of effectiveness-measurements of performance or efficiency which are all factors of the way in which they fill their roles in a productive way. 
But the Parliament ultimately is responsible to taxpayers and voters. Therefore, in this place one would think there is a greater sense of awareness of what are the competitive factors and what are the features which will ensure efficiency and greater productivity. The taxpayers and voters can tell the difference between clean and dirty streets, smooth roads, congested traffic, prompt or slow police reponse and efficient delivery of social service benefits and all the other benefits provided by government. The public can assess this and the Parliament often assesses this. Part of the function of this legislation before the House is to ensure that all elements of government can assess the situation and be aware of it. I therefore put to the House that the feature of productivity within the area of efficiency and efficiency audit needs to be a factor applied and considered sympathetically by the AuditorGeneral. In the past governments have tended to ignore productivity. It is not my view that this can continue for much longer. The public sector is protected but the days of complete protection and lack of public scrutiny have gone. Too often we have depended on the charisma of leadership or the ability to turn aside criticism to justify an inefficient or an unproductive process. Those days have gone because the simple fact is that about one in every six Australians work at some level of government employment. Therefore, it would seem that there is a responsibility on everyone involved to justify and effectively measure for the community exactly what they are doing and the effectiveness of what they are doing. 
There is great difficulty in trying to improve the productivity and efficiency of government. I feel that in many instances governments tend to become involved in areas that are not rightly theirs. We see State governments involved in running brickworks. We see people employed in post offices throughout Australia when, in my view, unofficial post offices provide in most areas a far more effective, efficient and productive service to the community at large. There are a great number of areas- public transport being a major one- where governments have inserted themselves, basically with good intention but with poor result. Government needs to draw back from these areas and pass on its various roles to those people who have the incentive and who will ultimately seek to serve the community most effectively. By passing back to people in the private sector some of the roles of government, it will free government to supervise effectively, survey and in fact apply its own mind to the key performances and the key areas which no other but government can fill. What we are looking for is a drawing back of government from some areas but the retention by government of the way in which it makes its arrangements by contract or legislation or regulation to protect the community. 
Having done that, there seems to me to be a need for government to assess its own role and to see whether it can become more effective. Part of the effectiveness of government is the effectiveness of individuals within government. So often we offer no incentive to the Public Service and place no restriction on the Public Service. I regard permanency of employment, as we see it in the Australian Public Service, as a detrimental feature. It is not a feature that benefits the wellintentioned, dynamic individuals within the Service. It is not a provision that applies anywhere else in the nation. But if we remove permanency of employment, we should at the same time provide greater incentives to individuals who show capacity. 
There are many ways by which this can be done and I commend the example of other countries where benefits are offered to members of the Public Service for their input to government. They are benefits which are commensurate with those received by individuals in the private sector for expertise and capacity. 
I think there is need to consider the granting of leave of absence to valued employees for study tours and sabbatical type leave for high level public servants. There is also the need to provide low rent holiday accommodation. Further, there is the need to provide a credit system for fuel for motor cars, as is provided by many companies for their employees. There is the need to provide a system of support for high achievers. But at the same time let us not shrink from taking some of the hard decisions whereby we remove difficulties that are obvious in the Public Service; the difficulties of permanency of employment, Supperannuation programs that apply acrosstheboard and the capacity to flex on or flex off- all sorts of benefits that are not available elsewhere and which the community at large does not enjoy. I think that the application of that sort of incentive to the individual will increase efficiency. In the assessment of efficiency, it would seem to me that the Auditor-General will need to apply his mind to the alternatives that any scheme can take up. It would mean, therefore, that options of private use, contractual use, contractual delivery, private sector promotion of different services, staffing arrangements and managerial arrangements would all have to be considered. I believe that the Public Service would respond to the sensible application of efficiency audit. 
Other factors within the Bill fall within the scope of what I have already mentioned, particularly in regard to enforcing some limitations upon members of the Public Service. One that I would mention, apart from the permanency of employment, is the area of gross negligence as set out in the Bill. It would seem to me that in this instance the definition of 'gross negligence' is most difficult to pursue. I personally oppose the concept and feel that, as within other areas of employment, the term 'negligence' should be the one that is used. I have read a number of papers and a number of definitions which prove to me that gross negligence is an unsatisfactory term; that 'gross negligence' has to be proved. Employees who are negligent need to be reprimanded and need to understand their responsibilities. No service, particularly the Australian Public Service, will gain credit for sloppy administration, or from people who are allowed, in some way, to avoid their own responsibilities. It is part of the responsibility of this House and of members of the Public Service at large to convince the Australian community that they are thoughtful, diligent and careful in their activity. I am not convinced that the purposes of the Parliament or of the nation are met by the measures of gross negligence as defined. 
At this stage I would like particularly to pay tribute to the former  Senator- now Sir Reginald-  Wright who recently graced the other place for his thoughtful contribution, and, one might say, forceful contribution on this matter. I know that there would be some members of the Public Service who would think that he was somewhat overbearing in his views. However, his dedication to the concept of responsibility to all Australians is one that would not be denied by any honourable member. He spoke most persuasively on this particular area as well as on the areas of act of grace payments and on other matters which will no doubt be dealt with in the Committee stages of this Bill. But I repeat that the application of an efficiency audit will bring credit to the administration of government. It will bring credit to the Parliament itself and it will bring credit to the Public Service. Linked with the concept of efficiency audit are productivity levels. One must look also at the application of productivity and good decisions to benefit all Australians. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In this wide ranging debate I would like to draw the attention of the House to the recent report produced by the Department of Transport entitled 'Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Report Part 1 '. I think this is probably one of the most significant documents in regard to domestic aviation that has come before the Parliament. It is a detailed examination of the vital factors that affect the travelling public of Australia who use our airlines. It is my intention to draw attention to the most significant recommendations and in so doing to encourage the adoption as quickly as possible of all the major recommendations presented in this report. It is seldom that I have found since I first became a member of the House that reports of this type are completely satisfactory or contain the relevant and key features that members of Parliament and in fact the public would like to see in such documents. I think this is an excellent report and one of the most significant and best researched documents that I have seen for a long time. 
The Committee in its findings drew attention to the evaluation of airline efficiency within Australia and the need constantly to monitor the efficiency of our two major airlines. This report deals basically with the two major airlines. The suggestion that a monitoring of overseas developments and a comparison with Australian services be undertaken is something that I think we should applaud. Facts and figures are very hard to obtain in this field and it is only by comparison with overseas airlines used in a domestic capacity that I think we can successfully ascertain the functional efficiency of our two airlines. A Bureau of Transport Economics report commented on by  Dr Hocking  in relation to this study showed that the overall level of fare discounting offered by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines is considerably less than that offered by all of the airlines examined except in the Third World countries. I think this comment is highly significant. I think the innovations recently introduced by the two airlines are to be recommended. However, the cost of travelling in Australia is extremely high and it would be my recommendation that we try to get out of the Third World group of domestic airlines and move a little further forward in comparison to our present stage of development. In making those comments the BTE concluded: 
. that this indicated that the preferences of airline consumers (actual and potential) in Australia are not being adequately pursued by the Australian domestic airlines . . . 
I think people who travel on aircraft and use aircraft frequently would commend that sentiment. The report continued: 
The Committee therefore recommends that AAA and TAA be encouraged to provide more innovation in fare structures. 
We have seen a start of that process with the introduction and gradual extension of stand-by fares in Australia. I note with some regret that both airlines are going to remove stand-by fares over the Christmas period and that they may tend to reduce the advantage of stand-by discounting. I think that action should be resisted as strongly as possible. No restrictions are imposed at the moment on the deployment of aircraft on particular routes. The total capacity of each airline on the competitive routes is required to be identical. I think that is a detrimental feature for the travelling public. Of course, closely linked with that feature is the system of parallel services that has been a real detriment, a real inhibition to travel in Australia. I know that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  did a great deal to try to break that system. I believe that the long routes- the routes to Perth, the Northern Territory, Darwin , perhaps to South Australia and northern parts of Queenslandneed to be examined very closely so that there may be an opportunity for the two airlines on a six-monthly basis to service those areas at different times. Western Australian members often speak of the problems they face in effectively being offered only one service each way per day when actually there should be at least two services each way per day. The members of the Committee who compiled this report concluded as follows:  . . that the stage has been reached in the development of Australia's trunk route services for more competition between the airlines including a less rigid approach to fare approvals. 
I think different types of services can be offered. I see no problems with one airline in Australia wishing to offer the travelling public a sky train approach if the public were willing to accept that. The timetable performance left the Committee cold when it came to examine that situation. The Committee felt that the public convenience is not being served by the present arrangements. The provision of special flights needs to be examined. I think it should be formally recognised and recommended that Air Navigation Regulation 106C should be amended to include such a reference to special nights. The Committee also concluded:  . . that the public should be informed as far as practicable of the scheduling of special flights and recommends that reference to this aspect also be included in ANR 106C. 
Special flights meet special purposes. If we are going to encourage tourism in Australia, particularly for overseas visitors and particularly for those people who wish to travel north in the winter or perhaps south to Tasmania in the summer, special nights need to be encouraged. Travel within Australia must be one of the most challenging and exciting features of the country that young Australians can explore. I encourage young Australians wherever possible to pursue an examination and acquire a knowledge of their own country. Some of the suggestions put forward by the Committee would follow through that recommendation and provide young people with that capacity. 
On examination of the role of Trans- Australia Airlines, the Committee found that it was serving a very worthwhile purpose and voted strongly for its continuation. I think that most members of this House would agree that a proper role for government and private enterprise in this field, considering the conditions and huge distances within our country, is a factor that should be continued and supported. The rationalisation of the provision of services is dealt with in great detail. I think that one of the most debilitating factors of the two-airline agreement is the way in which the agreement has been allowed to develop through the rationalisation committee and the arbitrator so that the size of bread rolls and even the colour of serviettes are discussed before the arbitrator and everybody goes out and does the same thing. This is tragic in that it does not give people a proper choice and they cannot compete effectively one against the other for customers. The rationalisation committee and the arbitrator should be removed, on the recommendation of this Committee, and I endorse that proposal. It would not destroy the two-airline policy but it would give the airlines a proper capacity to compete at a level which would not damage their profitability to any extent but would force them to think of the public. That recommendation is one that I would support most strongly. 
The report is a very comprehensive one and deals with the types and levels of fares that are available and the ones that it sees as being important. Other recommendations on the details of the carriage of airmail and those concerning postal services and the Postal Act are relevant. I think too that the Government's policy on the carriage of domestic freight should be relaxed. It does not seem reasonable at this stage of our development to pursue any longer the attitude we have in relation to freight, and it should be divided from the domestic travel industry. A subsequent report on regional airlines and the provision of commuter services in fact complements the report I have brought into the House this evening. I believe that an examination of both those reports would be a worthwhile exercise for members. I think that the adoption by the Government of the reports, over a period of time and not in such a way as to delay benefits to the Australian public, should be commenced immediately. I do not wish to delay the House by a further examination of this report. However, I reiterate its importance, the vital nature of the subjects that it touches, and the great impact that the recommendations could have on the travelling public of Australia if they were introduced. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it the Government's intention to legislate for union balance sheets to be forwarded to union members? Is it a fact that previous governments have attempted to frame such legislation against great opposition? Will this Government do so? 
-Has the Minister for Health noticed growing discontent in New South Wales psychiatric and geriatric hospitals? Is the Minister aware of the recent statements by the New South Wales Minister for Health? Are the cutbacks in New South Wales psychiatric and geriatric hospitals due to Commonwealth financial cuts and influence? 
Has the Minister for Finance noted comments made today in an editorial in the  Australian  newspaper which claimed that the accounts of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation had never been audited? As a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts- I am sure that other members of that Committee join me- I ask the Minister: Is that a fact? 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring) be omitted, with a view to substituting the following words: this House expresses its deep concern that for every three live births in Australia there is one abortion, and therefore is of the opinion that the Government should take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that medical benefits shall not be provided by the Commonwealth for the termination of pregnancy unless the termination is performed to protect the mother when her life is endangered by a physical pathological condition or where either (a) the pregnancy was as a result of incest or rape, or (b) the mother has been subject to disease or physical conditions which could reasonably be expected to result in serious deformity to or retardation of the child. 
The amendment that I have moved to the motion proposed by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has been formulated because it achieves four principles that are not contained in the original motion. The amendment expresses, firstly, deep concern. It then expresses an opinion, it requests action and it states an intention rather than detail. The amendment expresses deep concern because of the large numbers of potential Australians who do not live to enjoy this country. Between 60,000 and 80,000 abortions are performed a year. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  statistics of the abortions performed in South Australia. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SOUTH AUSTRALIAN ABORTION STATISTICS 
In 1977, among women aged 1 5-44 - 
Abortions notified represented 18.77 per cent of confinements resulting in live births. 
Abortions notified represented 15.80 per cent of the combined pregnancy rate. By comparison, in 1973, abortions: confinements 14.67 per cent; abortions: combined 12.80 percent. 
In 1 977, among women aged 1 5-19 - 
Abortions notified represented 65.55 per cent of confinements resulting in live births. 
Abortions notified represented 39.6 per cent of the combined pregnancy rate. 
By comparison, in 1975, abortions: confinements 38.61 percent; abortions: combined 27.86 percent. 
In 1 977, among women aged 20-24- 
Abortions notified represented 14.89 per cent of confinements resulting in live births. 
Abortions notified represented 12.96 per cent of the combined pregnancy rate. 
By comparison, in 1975, abortions: confinements 10.88 percent; abortions: combined 9.81 percent. 

<graphic href="113131197903220_38_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903220_39_1.jpg"></graphic>

In summary the statistics show that 40 per cent of all confinements of women under the age of 20 resulted in termination of pregnancy. It is interesting to note that substantial percentage increases followed the abortion on demand legislation being passed in South Australia. It is therefore fitting that the House should indicate its concern at the high proportion of abortions. 
In matters of this type it is difficult for members of the House to arrive at a decision on social and moral issues because a matter of financing is involved. On referring to parliamentary practice and philosophical thought of the responsibilities of legislators I have found that Edmund Burke, Plato, Socrates and other political philosophers have expressed the belief that the only way in which a decision of this type can be made is for each individual to act without fear or favour on his personal conscience. The House will do so today. The amendment expresses an opinion because Ministers, leaders of parties and private members need to act as individuals of the Parliament and divorce themselves from their office in government or opposition. The amendment therefore seeks an opinion from the House rather than to have the House demand or request legislation of the Government. Government and Opposition members must indicate a personal and conscientious opinion based on the parliamentary process. 
A consequence of expressing an opinion is to require the implementation of the decision. The amendment requests the Government to take whatever steps are necessary. It does not seek to specify by way of legislation or regulation. For example, the removal of item 6469 from the medical benefits schedule would not require legislation. The Government, having received the opinion of the House, would be obliged to formulate a course of action which if legislative, would then be judged by the House. The amendment does not seek to specify, to certify or to insert itself over the responsibilities of State governments to control and regulate legal medical procedures. The role of State governments must be recognised in this matter. The federal role is one of financial responsibility for certain medical procedures. But one cannot accept a financial responsibility without at the same time having a share in the social and moral responsibility. That is the iniquity of the present situation. 
We should not back away from expressing our views and Parliament should take proper responsibility for its own area of administration of medical benefit payments. To proceed beyond that point, as the original motion does, is to deny the citizens of each State the capacity to formulate laws of legality. The motion contains the principle of preservation of life. That is the intention of this amendment. But the amendment expresses the principle and at the same time does not ignore the need for compassion. 
-The importance of railways in Australia is firmly established in our national policies by the introduction of the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill. Railways comprise one of the main three modes of transport for the movement of people and goods throughout Australia. In all, they account for about 18 to 20 per cent of freight on major routes. Last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in his statement to the House relating to the Australian Science and Technology Council, emphasised the need for scientific investigation and the upgrading of research in Australia. He said: 
Our success with large-scale mining operations in remote regions, for example, has only been possible following development of our railway systems to a stage where as a result of technological advances in the design of rails and bearings, they are able to support the huge trains and heavily-laden trucks which carry minerals from the mines to the coast. 
I think that in emphasising that point in a statement as significant as that one, which was made last week, the Prime Minister epitomised the importance to our mineral and primary development of our capacity as a nation to export our produce economically. One of the main factors in the use of raU by people seeking to export or to transport their goods between capital cities is the cost of using rail compared with other modes of transport. The other two main modes of transport which compete with rail are road and sea transport. For most goods, sea transport appears to be out of the question. For instance, the cost of moving a rail container from Sydney to Melbourne is approximately $ 145. The cost of loading and unloading a sea-borne container is $300. There is no way that, under present circumstances, the great challenges of sea transport can be taken up by those people who wish to use the sea as a form of transport. Therefore, we have within this country competition between road and rail. 
Road services provide certainly a cheaper service and probably a better service than rail in that they are faster and they are point-to-point. A breakdown of the use ofthe Australian facilities indicates that rail moves about 20 per cent of our goods, road about 40 per cent and sea about 40 per cent also. But the sea-borne cargo is mainly bulk cargo, such as metals and minerals. In my view, we should seek to establish a situation in which rail will become more competitive with road and in which, when freight has to be moved for more than 100 miles, the competition is such that rail offers firm competition to road. 
Scales and tables presented to this House by the spokesmen on this issue for the Opposition last night indicate clearly the reasons for the uncompetitive nature of many rail operations. I believe that, with the introduction of this legislation, for the first time in Australia we are establishing a national approach to railways. In the term of the previous Government a quasinational approach was made by that Government buying up railways from two States. That proved to be a most unsuccessful arrangement, particularly for the Commonwealth Government. But with the introduction of the legislation which is before us, a firm policy commitment has been made to adopt a national approach to the movement of goods and passengers by rail. Exciting prospects are in line for this nation if this policy is pursued actively by Federal and State governments and if the advantages are recognised by users. 
A national rail program was first enunciated in a policy commitment made by the present Government before the general election of 1977. The commitment, embodied in this legislation, is a five-year program of upgrading, at a total cost of $70m. The policy speech stated: 
A contribution of about $70m over five years, beginning 1978-79, will be made to a joint Commonwealth-State program for upgrading State railways which are part of the national mainline system. 
Following that policy commitment and the reelection of the present Government, the Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  later had discussions with his State counterparts. Last year the Bureau of Transport Economics studies and the way in which a program of this type could be developed were discussed. I think it is interesting to note the way in which the program was developed by the authorities and by the State Ministers in the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
There have been two bases for the studies and these bases have been used as the criteria for resolving what upgrading should be done. Firstly, alternatives were assessed in commercial terms, that is, on the basis of their impact on railway finances. In this case, the trade-off between the capital cost of the upgrading and the return of increased revenue and reduced operating costs was calculated. Secondly, an evaluation was undertaken on the basis of optimal allocation of community resources in the transport sector. Using those two criteria, the Bureau of Transport Economics provided a series of reports that allowed the ATAC Ministers to come to a conclusion, and we have today before us the Bill. 
The assistance provided by the 1978-79 Budget for planning and details which still have to be finalised is $3m. As I have said, the Bill proposes the spending of $70m over five years from 1978-79 to 1982-83. The program will cover Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. The Bill, in fact, proposes section 96 grants, which are interest bearing repayable grants. I will come later to the terminology which has been queried by members of the Opposition. 
The main lines which will be involved in this upgrading and the establishment of a proper national railways program will be the line between Sydney and Brisbane, the line between Sydney and Melbourne and the line to Perth. The Bill provides for the declaration of further lines as main lines as they become identified or as the need arises. Separate agreements will be signed with each State on terms and conditions that are approved by the Government of each State and by the Commonwealth Government. The details and financial arrangements will vary from State to State, although they will follow the intention of the Bill. The project details will be set out in the agreements and these agreements will be brought before both Houses of Parliament within 1 5 days of signing for approval by both Houses. This allows protection for the Commonwealth Government and, should objections on a States' rights basis be lodged they can be dealt with in this place or in the State parliaments. 
The problem that has been identified by the Bureau of Transport Economics in five significant studies that it has undertaken is that lines in use today were designed for steam trains. We now have longer and larger trains drawn by more powerful locomotives. This mean that the rails and the systems designed for steam can no longer cope efficiently with the current-day uses. 
The Sydney to Brisbane railway line, for instance, is in good condition for a speed of 1 1 5 kilometres an hour, but few sections will carry trains at that speed. Wooden trestle bridges on many sections of that railway line will not allow the rail to be used efficiently. 
It is interesting to note that in this legislation the terminals and the depots are not included as part of the program. It could well be that, as the Bureau of Transport Economics points out, some limiting factors may be introduced at later stages in this program because of terminals not being up to a state of repair or a state of design that will allow the railways to continue to upgrade. Therefore, I think it is a matter of responsibility for State governments to show their commitment to this program by paying attention to their terminals with a view to carrying on reciprocal work on their improvement as the mainline upgrading is taking place. 
The ATAC Ministers adopted priorities for different types of trains. In order of priority they are express passenger services, highest priority express freight trains, less important express freight trains which do not carry perishable goods, trains carrying steel and general goods, and empty trains returning trucks or wagons to place of origin. These priorities have been firmly established, and the travelling public is considered first of all. One only has to look at railway systems in Japan, the United Kingdom and Europe to see the importance given to the travelling public in the railway systems. 
In Australia the movement of freight has become most important. In fact, most trains in Australia are fast freight trains carrying perishable goods and express freight trains carrying other types of goods rather than trains carrying passengers or other types of freight. Therefore, the use of railways for express trains is vital. That means a good quality track, a capacity for trains to pass each other, and a capacity for them to move quickly through signal systems and other ancillary services. The studies of the Bureau of Transport Economics identified a need for crossing loops which would allow longer and heavier trains to bypass each other with a minimum of difficulty and would allow a greater capacity for freight and a greater capacity for trains on the lines between Brisbane and Melbourne. 
Centralised traffic control is also part of this program. I would predict that in some areas the program will include an updating and improvement to centralised traffic control, and perhaps in some instances will provide traffic control for the first time. A bogie exchange is another way in which this program can assist the movement of people and freight. The main sections of the line between Brisbane and Melbourne to receive attention would be the Telarah-Casino line and the line between Albury and Junee. These sections are the worst, and I think it is a matter of some regret that they are within the State of New South Wales. 
The Opposition, in speaking to this Bill, raised a number of factors that I think are quite superfluous and, in fact, false arguments. In its amendment, it alleges that financial assistance under this Bill is not within the spirit of the commitment given at the last election. The original commitment given in the policy speech was for the Federal Government to provide $60m. That commitment has been upgraded to a commitment of $70m. I do not know what the Opposition means by the word 'provide'. The fact that the State governments have not seen fit either by loan or through their own funds to pay any attention to the BTE reports would indicate that they have no intention of upgrading a national railway line or their links between the capital cities. Interest will be charged on funds given to State authorities, but the interest is applied because of the highly significant returns that will come from this upgrading process. In some instances the returns will be of the order of 30 per cent. 
The Opposition has also raised factors concerning the efficiency of the New South Wales railway system under the present State government. I would strongly query those factors. I would strongly query whether there was any will to innovate or upgrade in that State at the moment. It seems to me that if one were to compare New South Wales with Western Australia one could see that the Western Australian Government has had the capacity not only to decrease its massive losses, such as other States are making, but also over a period of 15 years to improve the efficiency and the service of the railway lines in that State. The New South Wales Government has not made new commitments beyond those which were made by the previous Liberal Government. In fact the work that is being carried out on wagons and carriages is work that has been planned for many years. What we need to see from New South Wales is a new commitment and co-operation to expand the export and trading capacity of that State. 
I express some disappointment with the drive of the legislation and the reports of the Bureau of Transport Economics. We have to think more widely than undertaking just a patch up job to improve the flow of freight between the major capital cities of Australia. I think we need to look at our long term objectives to find exactly what we want in the ultimate. For instance, do we intend to have a fast train system between Sydney and Melbourne, which is the major route? Do we intend to move freight and people at 125 miles an hour or 150 miles an hour? Perhaps one could say that by a constant process of upgrading one will inevitably achieve that. If that is our ultimate objective, we should examine the prospects and the costs of the design work that is being done at this stage. We should ensure that this work becomes part of a major national railway link between the capital cities. 
I think there is a need for dual lines on such a system. I understand that the Albury-Junee section is a single track line. Certainly we need dual tracks between the important centres of Sydney and Melbourne. The factors of electrification must also be studied very carefully bearing in mind the strong rise in the cost of fuel. There may be a plan- I hope there is a plan- for long term development of railways in Australia. Railways will be vital for our export drive. They will be vital for the on-going prevention of rising costs. I would like the Minister for Transport to tell me what is being done to achieve some of the long term objectives of studies to upgrade main lines throughout Australia. A country of this size needs to have some sort of priorities. We should be aiming for fast rail links. I would like to draw attention to the trans-Australian study carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics because it points out some of the long term prospects of a different type that really have not been given serious consideration at this stage. 
Finally, I would like to say that those State governments which think the Commonwealth can continually dip into its pocket to fund the deficit of transport systems throughout Australia to the extent of $2m a day for every day of the year are mistaken. I think it is high time that the State governments adopted an efficient program of transport. They should consider the manning levels on their railways; they should consider the conflict of service they provide versus the economies of those services; and they should be offering some incentive payments. The level of dynamic management within the State governments, except in the case of Western Australia, is lacking. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Industrial Relations, concerns the industrial campaign being waged by the Builders Labourers Federation in Victoria and South Australia for an over-award payment of $2 1 a week. Is the Minister aware of Press reports this morning that negotiations were about to commence between building employers and building unions, and later reports that these negotiations had broken down, with the Builders Labourers Federation imposing work bans on building sites in Victoria and South Australia? In view of what the Minister said in this House on 3 April, I ask him whether the campaign referred to is a matter of concern to the Government and, if so, what the Government can do to try to ensure that such claims are resisted by employers. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport and relates to reports in today's Press of the successful outcome of air fare negotiations between Australia and the Association of South East Asian Nations officials in Kuala Lumpur. Can the Minister advise the House what has to be done before cheap air fares can be introduced for travel between Australia and the ASEAN countries? When is it likely that cheap air fares will be introduced? Are reports that Australia will allow ASEAN airlines limited access on the direct point-to-point Australia to the United Kingdom-Europe advance purchase excursion fares correct? If so, has the Government deviated from its internation civil aviation policy and has the policy been jeopardised in any way? 
I rise to speak briefly on this matter because for a number of years I had within my electorate of Mitchell the company of Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd. 
As the honourable member for Paterson said, it is a good company. It was established by  Mr A.  C. Howard on a property in Moss Vale in 1912. He was a former engineerfarmer from Gilgandra. In 1 922 he established a larger factory in the Northmead area. There he earned for himself amongst his employees and citizens of the district an enviable reputation as a man of honesty and integrity. Many of his older employees are now reaching retirement age but it is interesting to note that almost without exception they have been with the company for the whole of their working lives, such was the treatment that they received from  Mr Howard  and the high regard with which they held that company. 
The honourable member has supplied additional information. Indeed the company built the first tractors in this country. They were built to drive the machine invented and developed by  Mr Howard-the  rotavator. This company earns millions of export dollars for this country with an Australian invention that is manufactured by an Australian company. 
In August 1976  Mr Tinkler,  the present Managing Director, approached me with information concerning the difficulties his company was facing because the high protection being afforded to the Villiers company was forcing Howard to consider the purchase of an Australian manufactured engine for his small hand-guided implement. On examination of the facts it became obvious that the real difficulty arose through duty-free engines from Japan being imported into New Zealand and a unit being manufactured there and exported to Australia with no duty being applied to it. The trade agreements with New Zealand imposed difficulties on this fine Australian company. Consequently, it was seeking to have duty applied to imports from New Zealand or a reduction of the duty to the Australian manufacturer. 
My friend and colleague the member for Ballarat (  Mr Short)  has clearly enunciated to the House some of the difficulties that have been faced by Villiers. I sympathise with that company for the difficulties that it has gone through. In 1977 Howard was forced into a situation in which it was considering manufacturing in New Zealand or Malaysia. To some extent this has happened with this equipment, but Howard did not make decisions of this type before properly negotiating and discussing with the Government the difficulties it was facing and going through in the correct form and to the right authorities the areas of government, such as the Industries Assistance Commission, which would seek to assist it or would hear its cause. Howard has taken the Villiers engine that was produced in Australia and extensively tested it. Howard has examined it in such a way that it claims that that engine is not satisfactory for its purposes. I do not think that members of this House are in a position to judge those factors. It is a matter for commercial judgment and for engineers to determine. But the fact of the matter is that until this decision was taken Howard faced great difficulties with the continuation of its manufacturing business in Australia. 
The Government must be given credit for thoroughly exploring this issue through its instrumentalities and for providing proper routes for industry through the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission to examine in detail the difficulties that almost appear to be a conflict between my colleague and me in representing two Australian companies facing two sets of difficulties. The IAC, in its final presentation of a part report into certain engines not exceeding 7.46 kilowatts, has given guidance as to what should be done. The Government has taken up the recommendations of the IAC and has been seen to give support to Australian industry. The beneficiary in fact will be this fine Australian company, Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd of Australia. The comments made by the Opposition disappointed me. I should have thought that after a couple of telephone calls it could have clearly established the situation. A telephone call to Villiers and Howard would have clarified for the Opposition the reason for the introduction of this legislation and the reasons why a bounty should be applied to assist Australian industries in those circumstances. Obviously that has not been done. 
I am greatly disappointed that Labor has moved an amendment that indicates it has neither the will nor the interest to involve itself closely with Australian industry. I am particularly disappointed when a company such as Howard Rotavator is involved. I want to inform the House that I will be talking with  Mr Tinkler  of Howard Rotavator this evening. This gentleman is most concerned about some of the statements that have been made in this place. I will be able to reassure him of the reasons behind the Government's decision which he fully understands, supports and applauds. I will also be able to convey to him, I hope with a sense of some tragedy in my voice, the poor homework and the lack of detail that are obvious from the comments of members of the Opposition. 
I would like to conclude my remarks by congratulating the Government for making this difficult decision. The Government has used legislation and agencies such as the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority eventually to reach what I feel is the best conclusion. In fact, my colleague, the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short),  tends to agree with me and in fact he supports the Government's decision. I know that the prospects for Howard must now be brighter. I am delighted to see that. The reputation built for that company by old  Mr Howard  will be carried on and the company will continue to attract export dollars to Australia. This fine company has a good industrial record. The reputation of its employees for skill and expertise is recognised right throughout farming communities worldwide. 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to recent reports of discussions between the leaders of the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities under the chairmanship of  Dr Waldheim,  the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I ask the Minister whether the reported agreements reached at that meeting mean that a solution to the tragic situation in Cyprus is in sight. I also ask what the Australian Government has contributed to any understanding. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
What are the staff levels in all Australian Broadcasting Commission facilities in the Sydney area by (a) function not by designation and (b) designation not by function. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) In relation to recommendation 20 of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its Report on Oil Spills is the Minister able to state whether a working party of the Australian Science and Technology Council has been formed to examine, report and make recommendations on the need for increased marine science research. 
If so, 
a ) who are the members of the working party, 
b ) what are its terms of reference, and 
has a date been fixed for the working party's report. 
-Did the Minister for Transport hear the Treasurer last night announce increases in air navigation charges of 25 per cent? How will these increases affect the cost of travel in Australia? For instance, will they put up the fares from Sydney to Melbourne or from Melbourne to Perth by amounts as high as 10 per cent? 
-I rise to speak on the Navigation Amendment Bill 1 979. 1 am delighted that at last, after about four years, this Bill is now before the House. In 1975 the attention of the House was first drawn to the intention to introduce a Bill of this nature. Subsequent delays have finally been put to one side and we have the Bill before us for debate tonight. A Bill of this nature came before the House in 1976. It was unfortunately put to one side when the House adjourned for the elections in that year. This is a large Bill and a complicated Bill. It covers over 350 pages of close print, fine detail and legalistic language. It is a specialist area of interest to those involved in the maritime industry. It is also of vital importance to Australia and 
Australia's capacity to compete on world markets and to export its goods. 
Many of the provisions of the Bill now before us are an improvement on the Bill we first saw in 1976, due to the presentation of the Summers reports in June 1976.  Mr M.  M. Summers, the Commissioner of the Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry, prepared four detailed reports. One was on maritime standards and controls, one was on the future of the Australian maritime industry, one was on the international maritime conventions that Australia is required to observe and one was on the Australian maritime legislation. In particular 1 would like to draw the attention of the House to some of the recommendations and findings in these reports. They do, in fact, put a great deal of emphasis on changes that may be needed in Australian legislation in relation to our maritime industry. In particular,  Mr Summers  has put his finger on the fact that Australia has no register of Australian ships. Australia is dependent on the Government of Great Britain to register Australian ships. No doubt at some time, perhaps within the next year or two, Australia will move to the situation in which it has a register of Australian ships. In my view this is a most important factor for the growth of the Australian shipping industry and a most important factor for this country if it is to be able to be true master of the vessels that sail within Australian waters and use Australian ports. 
There are no provisions in the Australian Navigation Act for the registration of ships in Australia's name. The Australian Navigation Act, as it now stands, is designed to control wider aspects of the operation of Australian shipping as well as the original 19th century purposes. Because of the outdated provisions within the original Act, which was first introduced into this place in 1912 and which contains many earlier provisions, there has been a need to upgrade the Act. For instance, the present Act imposes requirements related not only to the welfare of the crew and the structural safety of the ship but also to its manning, navigation, loading and unloading; to the carriage of dangerous cargoes, pollution of the sea and wreckage and salvage. The new Act, in fact, covers many of the same aspects. The Act provides a basis for the work and discipline of the men on board the ship, the amount that a ship can carry, the way she is handled, the way she is navigated and many other down to earth requirements of a ship at sea. It is therefore not surprising that the Bill is such a lengthy Bill, nor is it surprising that the regulations attached to the Bill are so extensive.  Mr 
Summers states in his report on Australian maritime legislation: 
The present legislation if not revised can impede the natural course of the industry's development. 
I believe that to be the case because there are limitations and outmoded practices in the present Act. They have been picked up and changed by the new Bill. In particular, I would draw the attention of the House to a recommendation made by  Mr Summers  which states:   . . that first the legislation should concentrate on principles and should not concern itself with detail as it does at present. Second that more use should be made of regulations and other forms of subsidiary procedure for which the amendment processes are simpler and quicker. 
The Navigation Amendment Bill does that and does simplify the whole purpose of the administration of legal requirements at sea and in ports. The recommendations put forward by  Mr Summers  are of great interest. I think they are deserving of close scrutiny. But some of them, in my view, have been neglected or overlooked by the Government. I would consider that that has been done on purpose. Not all the recommendations seem to me to be practical, nor are they the types of recommendations that the present Government would like to see enshrined in legislation. 
The Bill covers matters relating to the limitation of shipowners' liability and their actual liability. It covers the prevention of collisions, the safety of containers, the safety of life at sea and the measurement of tonnage of vessels. It also deals with the requirements for manning, the qualifications of seafarers, uniform ship laws, ship movement reporting, historic shipwrecks and miscellaneous matters. In regard to the limitation of shipowners' liability the Bill places a limitation on shipowners and supersedes the provisions of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act as the law in Australia on this subject, except by virtue of- this applies to many clauses in the Bill- saving clauses which allow the States and the Northern Territory to validify the international conventions which are covered by shipowners' liability, and therefore giving them the choice of accepting international conventions. Should a State not choose to legislate, it is my understanding that the provisions of the Commonwealth legislation would supersede its existing practice or requirements. 
The prevention of collisions is a most important area and one that is becoming more topical and more important in busy sealanes. In recent years we have seen what can happen when large tankers unexpectedly meet in fogs or off dangerous coasts. The damage to life and property is substantial. The new rules of the road provided by this legislation in relation to the prevention of collision updates the observance of the existing rules of the road so that common practice will apply in Australian waters and on the high seas surrounding Australia, as it does in international waters. The provision in relation to the safety of containers seeks to protect the property of shippers, firstly, for the movement of their goods and, secondly, to provide that there is proper loading and that containers are stowed on vessels in such a way that the ship cannot unexpectedly be damaged by the loss of containers overboard or by the sudden damage of containers that in fact may be the means of providing transport for unusual or dangerous goods. 
The safety of life at sea provisions and various protocols meet the requirements of the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea which were agreed to by maritime nations in 1974 and are now picked up in this Bill. The Bill contains provisions necessary to enable Australia to ratify the Convention and the amending Protocol and so keep its safety requirements for ships and equipment at least abreast of the latest international standards. The tonnage measurement provision is an important factor in this legislation because it is, in fact, the main way in which ships are measured to establish their tonnage and this facilitates the charging of dues and enables size comparisons to be made. 
The manning provisions in this Bill are interesting. I intend to speak in greater detail on this aspect. Up to the present the manning provisions have been decided in the normal way by both the shipowner and the employees. Where there is a dispute a manning committee is established and a decision is taken as to what the level of manning should be. It is my understanding that this new legislation moves towards a change in that approach. This change seeks to establish a level of safety, first of all, and then to have additional manning decisions made by conciliation and arbitration. We may not in fact eventually move to that stage, but it seems to me that the very comfortable manning levels that Australian vessels are required to carry are one of the debilitating features of Australian shipping. Under these circumstances a change from the present process of establishing a manning committee seems to me to be eminently suitable and applicable to the Australian industry. The settlement of additional hands on any vessel could well be established by the processes of conciliation and arbitration. All that should be necessary under a navigation Act is to establish what is required for safety or protection within the maritime environment. 
The qualifications of seafarers are also dealt with in this Bill. It establishes new provisions which are more modern and which do not meet the outmoded provisions of the previous Act. The reporting of shipping movements is a provision which seeks to add safety to the movements of ships at sea. It is a process whereby vessels notify their approach to the Australian shore and to Australian waters, their times of movement and their directions of travel. Ships are required to notify should there by any damage to their vessel and whether they are in trouble of any sort. That broadly covers the aspects of the legislation that is before the House this evening. There are some matters relating to the Bill that concern me greatly. The first of these is the fact that each State government within Australia and the Northern Territory administration, have insisted on imposing some of their requirements on the Federal Government. I think that this is most unfortunate and I think that it is a clumsy way in which to establish a national approach to navigation at sea. I think it is petty and unreasonable of the States to act in the way that they have. They have used the provisions that apply within the three-mile limit- their control of ports- to assert their particular stamp on the legislation which is before the House. In fact, what they have achieved is a clumsy process which does not facilitate the Bill in any way. They have not disagreed with the decisions of the Federal Government. They have not sought in any way to change or influence the provisions of the Federal Government. Instead they have sought to intervene and make things difficult and unwieldly 
I believe that the saving clauses are completely unnecessary. They should not be in a Bill of this type. Again I say that it is unfortunate that State governments have seen fit to intervene in the way that they have. Without exception and regardless of political views they have done so. Another aspect that relates to State governments is the removal of the definition of fishing vessels. Today as Australia is developing a very extensive fishing industry, using larger vessels which are proceeding further and further off-shore into international waters and off the continental shelf, in my mind there is need to ensure that the movement of fishing vessels is safe and that all authorities know the exact whereabouts and the movement of those fishing vessels. It is unreasonable to think that they should not come within the scope of Australian law. In fact, the States have insisted that the definition of fishing vessels be removed from the legislation. 
It is my view that the Commonwealth should not require that its regulations be observed in internal waters or in waters of ports or close to State property or land. However, there must be a consistency in approach which is universal throughout the shipping industry in Australia. The activities of State governments in Australia have sought to change this. I have been somewhat concerned about the reporting of collisions. I am well aware that the Australian public is conscious of the initial disaster that attracted world attention- the  Amoco Cadiz  disaster. It is my feeling that every provision of this Bill that seeks to prevent a similar disaster off the Australian coast should be written into the Act. I am concerned that in the case of the  Amoco Cadiz  the master did not in fact report defect or damage. 
I was concerned that defects or damage to a vessel within Australian waters or international waters off the Australian coast should be required to be notified to the Australian authorities as soon as a slight malfunction or a slight difficulty occurred on that vessel. I believe that this legislation covers only ships registered in Australia, ships en route to Australia and ships actually inside Australia's three-mile limit. Ships that are passing, ships not calling at Australia and ships which are not Australian vessels are not required by this legislation to advise the Australian authorities of their movements. I think that is unfortunate. In fact, I believe that because of the 200-mile zone around Australia the matter should be taken up with governments so that a better and more appropriate approach can be made in relation to ships which may get into trouble off the Australian coast. 
The original legislation contained manning provisions with which I disagreed. I am pleased to see that some of those provisions have been removed. In fact, penalties have been increased from an unrealistically low level. The cost of labour on Australian vessels is one of the debilitating factors in the Australian shipping industry. It costs approximately $20,000 to $25,000 a day for an Austraiian vessel to stand idle. Many such vessels have stood idle off the Western Australian coast. A ship under a different flag can cost as little as $6,000 a day to stand idle. There is a great difference in the cost of running ships, and much of this difference can be put down to the cost of labour. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who preceded me in the debate, made claims which I believe to be completely inaccurate about the quality of Australian shipping. Whilst I believe that we have the expertise, the capacity and the quality of vessel, I do not believe that those factors are being put to their best use. One has only to go aboard one of Australia 's newest vessels to see the conditions that are provided for seamen. The conditions are good, and no doubt the seamen deserve those conditions. What concerns me is not only the fact that they have those good conditions but also the fact that they intervene at what seems to be every opportunity in the free trade and the flow of goods in and out of Australia. 
I think it is really a terrible shame to see in Australia seamen being prepared to go on strike on the issue of the movement of live sheep outside of Western Australia. They have shown themselves to be prepared to go on strike in sympathy with other unionists on shore in Australia and to prevent the movement of goods and sheep outside of Australia. Stoppages are currently taking place on the wharves right around Australia. I do not see why Australian seamen should take up the cudgels on behalf of other unionists. Their conditions are excellent. Basically they work six months on and six months off. Their levels of salaries and wages are extremely high. Therefore they should accept responsibility and support the nation. 
-On behalf of my constituents in the Hawkesbury district, I pay tribute on this sad day to Lord Louis Mountbatten. Lord Mountbatten was a man whose leadership and personality inspired millions and in 1976 he endeared himself especially to the people of the Hawkesbury. He was a man of the people.  His  quiet and direct manner encouraged warm response and confidence. Lord Louis Mountbatten was a man who made everyone he met feel that to serve him would be a fulfilling privilege. As patron of the Windsor Polo Club, Lord Mountbatten conducted regular correspondence with Club officials and closely followed the activities of the Club. His interest in polo developed when he was in the Naval Polo Association. Polo was an interest he fulfilled all his life. I understand that he planned to watch polo at Windsor, England, shortly after his holiday. 
Many fond memories will be shared of this famous upright man, but none more sincerely than by his Australian friends. We are distressed for his family and for those who were injured. We condemn this sordid, cruel act which has taken a friend away; but we draw inspiration from his example, his valour and his humanity. 
-I suspect that I will be making the briefest speech in the Budget debate this session. The orders of the House require me to complete my speech in three minutes, which will be easily done, as the Government has presented on this occasion a superb Budget. After three and a half years of intensive work and hard decision-making, the Government has at last been able to ease some of the restrictions that it has found necessary to place on the whole of the Australian community. This Budget follows a program that has introduced tight control of inflation, a commitment to reduce the deficit and a balancing of the national accounts. This is something which the previous Government could not cope with and which the present Government has coped with. In this Budget, all sections of the community receive benefits. It does not matter whether they are pensioners, small businessmen, taxpayers or those engaged in energy exploration; every section of the community receives some benefit. Furthermore, no increases in charges are made. No section of the community will bear additional costs because of this Budget. 
The only aspect that I am concerned about for Australia's future is whether the wave of industrial unrest and the wage push can be moderated to such an extent that all Australians will be able to gain true benefit from the Budget. It is clear from the economic surveys conducted in Australia by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which were published in August that the Australian community, the Australian people and the Australian economy will benefit from this Budget, and that we are once again on the road to recovery. 
-Let us compare the cost of housing today with the cost of housing in 1965-66. In 1965-66 it took a person on average weekly earnings 1.98 years of income to buy a house in Sydney. In 1977-78 it took such a person exactly 1.87 years of his income to buy a house. Many of the gains that have been made to young people in relation to the cost of housing in Australia have been made by the current Government. Let us look at the level of housing activity in Australia today. For instance, the level of lending by savings banks is up by 15 per cent on that of last year, while the level of lending by trading banks is up by 1 1 percent on that of last year. Despite the drop in lending by permanent building societies, the total contribution of funds available for home buyers was up by a total of 10 per cent right across Australia for the year 1978-79. 
So, despite inflation running at 8.8 per cent, the lowest that we have had in Australia for many years, and the lowest interest rates that we have had for many years, the Australian building industry- Australian home builders- is receiving a total increase of 10 per cent in the money available to build houses in Australia. Apart from that, the effects of this Government's policy on the building industry at large and on employment are evident. There has been an increase in employment in the building industry of 4 per cent in one year. In the year 1978-79-1 know that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is most interested in this matterthe level of employment in the building industry rose by 4 per cent. That represents a positive growth for young men seeking apprenticeships and also for tradesmen who wish to apply their skills to the industry. 
Let us look at the figures brought forward by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  They show some interesting features. If we take one month alone- the month of August- we see that the cost of materials for the building industry increased Australia-wide by 1.4 per cent over the previous month. Let us look at the increase in the cost of building materials for a full year. In the year 1976-77- that is the year we took overthe cost of building materials increased by 1 1.9 per cent. That compares with an increase of 8.2 per cent in 1977-78. For the last financial year the increase was only 6.4 per cent. So in two years we more than halved the increase in the cost of building materials. That is the record of this Government. 
The honourable member for Reid picked one month and used it as the basis for bringing forward for debate a matter of public importance. He says: 'The country is in a shambles. People cannot buy houses'. The honourable member for Reid should look at our consistent record of growth, of availability of funds, of reduced interest rates and of reduced costs of materials. I do not know why he has brought forward this matter today. If there were the possibility of a continuation of increases in the cost of materials to the building industry, I am sure that the policies of this Government, as enunciated in the Budget, will restrain those factors. Our record stands for all to see. Our record shows that we have positively reduced costs from a record high of 24 per cent in 1974-75. That is the record of the Labor Government. Opposition members come into this chamber and say: 'The situation is terrible. Your last yearly record shows that the cost of building materials in the home building industry went up by 6.4 per cent. What a record ! ' It is a fine record compared with the disastrous 24 per cent per annum increase in the cost of building materials during the Labor period. 
The cost of building materials this month increased by 10.4 per cent compared with the cost in the same month last year. If we go back a month, we find that the increase is 9.5 per cent. If we go back another month, the increase is 8 per cent. An examination of the figures shows that the percentage increases are up and down from month to month. I can spot the figures for some months which the honourable member for Reid did not mention when speaking to his matter of public importance. He failed to mention that in April the monthly increase was as great as that for this month. We see that the figure for the next month is down again. So I do not know why the honourable member for Reid is wasting his time complaining in this House about the cost of materials in the building industry simply because the statistician brought out some figures today. 
Let us look at the manufacturing industry. There has been some increase in the cost of manufactured goods. The increase in the cost of materials in the building industry is below that in the manufacturing industry. That is the record of this Government. That shows its dedication to home builders and home buyers. Seventy million dollars is going into the home savings grant scheme, the scheme that the Labor Government killed, the scheme it put down. The Labor Government said to the young people of Australia: 'We will not allow the home savings grant scheme to go to you'. Let us look at the sorts of people buying these homes. The honourable member for Reid talked about a median of $60,000. Eighty-eight per cent of the young people who are using the home savings grant scheme are buying homes for less than $40,000. Taking that a bit further, we find that 34 per cent of them are buying homes for less than $30,000. These are no silvertails; these are not people buying at that median, that incredible average that cannot be found. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! There is no point of order. 
I am looking at national figures from the annual report of the home savings grant scheme. The honourable member for Reid can look them up and examine them. I suggest that he do so because it will be enlightening for him. He will find that 88 per cent of the young people in Australia buying their first home are buying for less than $40,000. So that is where the price of housing is. Those are the prices people are paying. Let us now deal with this incredible argument about the price of land. I happen to have before me figures taken by the New South Wales Valuer-General. These are official figures. Let us look at land prices in the suburbs of Sydney. In 1975 the price of a block of land in Blacktown was $11,000 whereas in 1979 it was $14,000 a block. The price of a block of land in Campbelltown in 1975 was $9,000 a block and in 1979 $14,000 a block. In Penrith it was $9,500 a block in 1975 and $1 1,500 in 1979. They were gradual increases and they show a concern by this Government and a stable economy. 
Sure, prices of land are going up in other areas, areas of which I know the honourable member is well aware. Let us look at Gordon, that beautiful suburb on the northern fringes of Sydney. Prices there have certainly risen; from $30,000 in 1975 to $55,000 today. Prices for land in Pennant Hills have risen from $ 1 9,000 in 1 975 to $30,000 today. So selective price increases have taken place in Sydney. There is no doubt about that. But what we are finding is that people who are more affluent have greater concern for their life style under a Liberal Government. They have the money to back that life style and are going into fashionable and nicely appointed suburbs. They are paying a lot more money for houses. But the young people, the young first home buyers, the people of Blacktown, Campbelltown, Fairfield, Green Valley, Liverpool, Penrith and Windsor are the people who have found a stability in official land prices. I think that indicates that with increased building by young people the building industry in New South Wales, both as regards land costs and materials, is moving steadily forward. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that despite the obvious advantages of liquefied petroleum gas and diesel fuel in contributing to the quality of air in the inner city areas, and in particular in the City of Sydney, that the New South Wales Government on 27 July gazetted a regulation under the Clean Air Act 1961 that requires motor vehicle manufacturers to proceed to the costly, and in the case of pollution control, unsatisfactory implementation of phase 3 of Australian Design Rule 27A? Furthermore, will the Minister inform the House of the approximate number of State Government vehicles at present utilising the cleaner fuel LPG or diesel? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it true that the Building Workers Industrial Union of Australia and other elements of the union movement are presently engaged in a war against the housing industry sub-contract system? Has the efficiency of the sub-contract system helped the industry to keep down prices of new houses, so benefiting home buyers and the general community? Can the Commonwealth 
Government take action to protect the subcontract system from destruction by the union movement? 
I wish to raise a matter tonight which concerns me greatly in regard to sensible industrial relations and the integrity of courts in New South Wales. I refer to a report in the Parramatta and District  Mercury  of 1 June 1979 concerning the arrest of 23 men from a Stocks and Holdings site in Baulkham Hills on 66 charges comprising trespassing, resisting arrest, hindering, malicious damage and inciting to riot. Shortly after those arrests and the placing of charges I was most interested to receive a circular from the Secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation of New South 
Wales,  Mr Steve  Black. The circular, which is entitled 'Three Big Victories for Builders' Labourers' gives details of the outcome of the dispute on that site. The circular states: 
. Thursday, the men went on strike because of this and the company called police to remove organiser Nick Harris. The Union does not tolerate any police interference in industrial matters ... It was unanimously decided that the scab-laid concrete should be dug out. This was done and the company again called police to the site. 
The outcome of this dispute is then enunciated in six points. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the two most relevant points. The first is point three which states: 
All charges which the company had laid against Officials and Labourers (trespass, malicious damage, et cetera) to be dropped. 
Point four states: 
All the police charges (resisting arrest, hindering arrest, inciting a riot et cetera) to be dropped. 
I think it is most interesting that before a case is heard in the courts a settlement, which has been agreed upon by the parties, is made a matter for the public by the union involved. It seems to me that there was collusion and, in fact, blackmail on this matter. On 27 July further information was available in the newspapers and I quote from the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 August in which this matter is raised. The article states: 
A spokesman for the Premier,  Mr Wran,  who is also the Minister for Police, said later that the company and the federation had applied to the Acting Commissioner of Police,  Mr J.  T. Lees, for the charges to be dropped. 
Further in the report it states: 
Dropping of the charges laid by the company and also by the police was a condition of the settlement of the industrial dispute. 
At this stage the matter was before the court. I quote further from the Parramatta and District  Mercury  of Tuesday 28 August, after the court case. This newspaper which represents the case, to my view, accurately, states: 
The company had agreed to withdraw the 23 trespass charges against the men and the Police Commissioner had agreed to withdraw the other 33 police charges. 
Under the circumstances, no explanation at all has been given and the application is denied. ' 
This was said by the magistrate,  Mr Dale.  The report continues: 
But  Mr Dale  refused to withdraw the charges. 
On this basis, the court is entitled to an explanation,' he said. 
The matter which I wish to place before the House tonight is that in these circumstances I claim that there has been criminal contempt of the court. I believe the price of settlement with the Premier and with the company has been industrial peace on that site. I think that the collusion and the pressure- blackmail- that has been used by the BLF in these circumstances has made it impossible but for the Premier or for the company to continue to accept the agreements put forward by the union. I take this opportunity to charge that union with criminal contempt of the court. I call on the New South Wales Attorney-General to investigate this matter as a case of contempt. Let us choose. Let us see what are his bona fides. Let us see his integrity in this case, if not in other cases. The blackmail and contempt allegations must be answered by the Attorney-General establishing a proper and full investigation. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  was one of those at the Austraiian Labor Party conference who insisted on writing into the industrial relations section of the Party's policy these words: 
The recognition of the rights of unions to regulate their own affairs in a democratic way free from government and judicial interference and at the same time expanding the role of the Industrial Registrar in advising on matters relating to rules so that unions will have access to information and independent advice which will allow them - 
No tribunal; no judicial procedure-  where necessary, to improve and update their rules. 
The honourable member talked about the rule of law and about consultation with commissioners; yet he is one of those who are responsible for that clap-trap, that tripe which is presented by the ALP as industrial relations policy. 
I wonder whether the ALP consulted, for instance,  Mr Justice  Staples when it wrote its policy. Whom did it consult? Who helped it produce this document and who helped it to write its policy? The Labor Party supporters say that we should consult with the people on the Full Bench and find out from their experience. The Labor Party has not done that because it jolly well knows that this is not the process of industrial law in this country. Governments do not consult commissioners. Commissioners administer the law. Governments are judged on their decisions. The people of Australia want fair decisions in industrial relations but the whole problem with the ALP is that it has moved so far from the shop floor that it no longer understands what the average working Australian wants today. The workers want to be at work; they want to earn their money and they do not want inter-union disputation. They do not want anybody in this Parliament or from anywhere saying from on high: 'You will go on strike', 'You will have a dispute', 'You will have stoppages', 'You will use guerilla tactics.' The working men do not want that; they want to work. The most common theme that I hear amongst union members and their families is from the wives who ask me: Why cannot we have a vote for a strike?' They want a vote because they know that their menfolk are being stood over to yield when they should not yield. The wives and the families of these men are the people who will judge the ALP at the next election. They will judge it on its policy which says that 'the unions in Australia will run wild and do as they like; there will be no government interference, no government moderation; the government will stand back from that situation and let them run riot'. 
It is interesting to note that at the ALP conference in Adelaide the person who I suppose will soon become a member of this House,  Mr Bob  Hawke, endeavoured to establish what would have been a democratic process for the union movement in Australia.  Mr Hawke  said that he wanted a contract referendum policy- a democratic policy. The left wing unions said: 'We will not wear that'. At that stage the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  sold out, supported by the record holding leader of any Opposition in Australia, the honourable member for Melbourne Pons who has just left the chamber, and by the Left of the Labor Party. Bob Hawke, the man who has more experience in industrial relations that anybody on the Opposition side, said: 'It is a sellout; you have ;old me down the river.' What did he do? He said: 'I am going to resign'. That knock-back, the way in which the Labor Party set him up and then left him, was too much for him. He said: 'I am not going to be up there and cop it from everybody as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I am going to get out. I am going to give up. I am not going to stay head of that important body in Australia. I am going to leave it. I am going to come into the Australian Parliament and I am going to have my say there. ' He has left it to the Left. 
-Yes, look at the change in the representation in the ACTU executive today and look at the structure today compared with what it was two months ago. There has been a complete restructuring. Fancy a union official with the experience and capacity of Charles Fitzgibbon not being on that body. He was sold out. Bob Hawke has left the union movement. The Labor Party has said that the union movement can run riot. Its supporters have said: 'We will let the unions run riot and we are not prepared to step in and act on behalf of Australian citizens'. 
The one point missed by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the point that he kept hammering was that the Minister intervenes and there is no judicial process. The honourable member failed to say, of course, that the Minister will intervene only when matters such as the safety, the health and the welfare of the community are involved. But the Minister does not make the decision even then; he refers the case for deregistration to the Full Bench- the judiciary. The Full Bench makes the decision, not the Minister. Would the honourable member and the Labor Party have us say that the Government should not be concerned about the safety, the health or the welfare of the community? What would they say if the petrol strike at the Caltex refinery had continued for another two weeks? Would they say that the welfare of the community would not be affected? Would they say that it would not affect the community if ambulances could not travel because of lack of fuel. Would they say when the services of doctors were restricted by strike action that that would not affect the community? It appears to me that the Labor Party is not concerned with the health, the safety or the welfare of the community because it would deny the Minister an opportunity to act for the Australian people. 
The decision is not with the Minister, it is with the Full Bench The Minister initiates action and says: 'This is bad. I must act responsibly for the Australian community'. Under this legislation the Minister refers the matter to the Full Bench. Are honourable members opposite saying that the Full Bench in Australia is not competent? I would have thought that the lesson of natural justice and the lessons of the rule of law that were taught last week in this House by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  would have registered. But no, they do not seen to have registered with honourable members opposite and again in a sort of sly or passing way the honourable member for Melbourne Pons raised those matters which were raised last week. I would have thought that natural justice and the rule of law which honourable members heard about from the lips of the Minister for Defence would have made them understand that in this legislation the Full Bench makes the decision, not the Minister. It is rubbish to say otherwise. Honourable members opposite are saying that the Government of Australia is not concerned about welfare, safety or health. The Labor Party is not concerned. Under this legislation the Minister has power to act and that is what the people at the shop floor level in Australia have been wanting. They are saying: 'You allow us to have safety and welfare; you allow us to earn our money; you allow us to attend to the wellbeing of our families. ' Labor Party supporters are not proposing that sort of thing. You are remote from the scene. You know nothing about who are the real workers of Australia. 
-I will not delay the Committee long on this matter, but I think that the debate that I have heard so far has not dealt with the important factors relating to this clause. The honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  certainly raised a number of key and salient issues and I believe that he was perfectly right in presenting them as he did. He mentioned, for instance, the Deverall decision brought down before Christmas last year. I mentioned this matter in the chamber last night. I think it is perfectly reasonable that a commissioner, before making a decision or before coming to a conclusion, should consult. A presidential member of a panel is aware of the activity right across the whole range of industry. 
I think that what the Opposition has to do is decide whether it will maintain its support for indexation. If the Opposition is prepared to let indexation go, I think that consultation of the type proposed here is not necessary. But if the Opposition wishes to continue the concept of indexation, there must be a consultative process so that no one section of an industry can on, shall we say, a work value case, advance its cause to the extent where either it disadvantages other groups or there is a flow-on and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its half-yearly hearings has to say that there have been so many gains outside indexation that there is no need for the continuation of indexation. I am not arguing for complete conformity, but I believe that this process of consultation will assist those in the union movement who are in weak bargaining positions. It will also prevent instances, such as I have noted over the past 12 months, of work value cases being presented in an effort to break down indexation and increase wages and salaries to an extent not justified under indexation. These claims are often outside the indexation guidelines and are seen to be outside them. 
The catch-up process is common within the industry and in fact the flow-on from the Deverall decision, endorsed by the full bench, has been the key factor in industrial relations problems throughout Australia during the past 12 months. It is at the centre of the Telecom dispute. The $8 a week to $14 a week granted by Deverall is what is being sought by most unions in Australia today. They want access to that increase despite the fact that the full bench said that it was to be a specific instance and there would be no flow-ons. The subsequent activity has been about flow-ons and I think that if at that stage we had had a consultative process we would not be facing the difficulties we are facing at the moment. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  spoke of only one instance- I can think of others where consultation would have been of great advantage. I instance the case of the Builders Labourers Federation in Victoria. In that case strike pay was initially granted but was later withdrawn and the full bench, after consultation at presidential level, reversed the decision. I think that it should have reversed that decision. It might have settled the dispute at the time, but there were implications for the whole of that industry and other industries in Australia in making decisions which were inconsistent, very difficult and very damaging to the Australian work place. I therefore wish to indicate that I consider this legislation to be a sensible process which endorses indexation. If Opposition members wish to do away with indexation let them say so. 
-The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be aware of the Conference of Commonwealth Finance Ministers held in Malta last week. Has the Treasurer informed the Minister of the outcome of his discussions with the Maltese Prime Minister and other officials? I trust that the Treasurer was able to express the high regard of the Australian Government for the people of Malta. But was he able to clarify the difficulties that have existed between the Australian and Maltese governments? Was this the first visit of an Australian Minister to Malta for many years? What has been the outcome of any discussions? 
-I ask the Deputy Prime Minister whether the Government is considering the abolition of State governments and the reduction of the powers of the Senate. 
-The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this legislation on behalf of the Opposition. I find the amendment interesting because it proposes the withdrawal of the Bill and a redrafting of it because it does not set out and does not do what the honourable member would like it to do. Within the last few months, the honourable member for Reid has called for a limitation on expenditure in the Home Savings Grants Scheme. That is exactly what the Government is doing in this legislation and exactly what the proposals are. On 24 March 1979, the spokesman on housing for the Opposition said that the average cost of an established home bought with the assistance of the Scheme was $32,000 but that 6 per cent of recipients, or 44,600 people, bought homes worth more than $40,000. 
It was the honourable member for Reid. In fact, what he said was that he wished to see the imposition of a limit of $40,000, which is exactly what the Government is doing in this legislation. Yet the honourable member comes into this chamber with an amendment which seeks to throw out the legislation. It seems to me that the honourable member who speaks for the Opposition on housing matters is inconsistent. He does not know what he requires. One month he proposes one thing and when the Government does it, he proposes that the Government then do something else. That is not the way in which to run the housing industry in Australia. What is needed is consistent and careful nurturing of the ability of people to purchase their own homes. The honourable member was reported right throughout Australia in a whole series of newspapers- the  Sun News-Pictorial,  the Hobart  Mercury  and the  Australian- &amp;s  saying that he would like to see a limitation placed on the Home Savings Grants Scheme. This legislation does that. 
The Government has moved to apply a rule of assisting those people most in need to purchase their own homes. In fact, one is impressed by the continuation of the main theme in the legislation now before the House. Grants will continue to be payable to single people as well as to married people and for both established and newly constructed homes. The fact is that two-thirds of people buying their first home buy already constructed homes. That is their decision because that is the price area which best suits them. Most of them set to work in their own time using their own skills to renovate that house. They then sell it and move on to something more desirable or into another suburb which may be preferable. 
Although the legislation does limit the value of the home, the type of home is not limited in any way. It can be purchased or constructed through a building contractor or by an owner-bulider. I think this is sympathetic and good legislation, lt will be of great assistance to young home buyers. The grants will apply to separate houses, semidetached dwellings, home units and flats, whether they be in suburban areas, in country towns or on rural properties. So there we have a piece of legislation that takes in the whole scope of suiting the ambitions and desires of young people who wish to purchase their first home. I think the Government, in reintroducing this legislation when it came to office, is to be commended for its thoughtfulness in assisting young home buyers. 
Of course the scheme proposes that in order to qualify for a maximum grant of $2,000, an applicant must have held acceptable savings of $6,000 or more over a certain period and in a prescribed form. So the young person, the young couple or the person of whatever age, in buying their first home, is entitled to a grant of $2,000. The Government has gone on to say that they may not be entitled to the full amount of $2,000 but to a smaller amount, depending on their capacity to save. A limitation has been introduced into the scheme. This limitation means that the grant cuts out at $40,000. A grant will not be payable if the value of any building, land, dwelling or other improvements exceeds $40,000. People purchasing a house and land get the full benefit up to $35,000 and then there is a graduated scale up to $40,000 where the Scheme cuts out. 
The value will be the value of the home and the land on which it is erected in its completed state, including the value of any work not completed at the date at which the value is determined. That means that the contract price for a house is the valuation. It does not mean that if a person decides that he will not paint his house at the outset but will paint it when and as he can afford to do so, the value of the painting is included in the cost of the house. What it does mean is that if a house is completed to the best ability of the builder to the plans and the contract as assessed and valued and comes within the $35,000 limit, the owners will be eligible for the full amount of the grant. But if its value is between $35,000 and $40,000 they would be eligible for a smaller amount of the grant. 
To give honourable members an idea of the scope and the scale of this program, I draw their attention to the Homes Savings Grant Act and to a report by the Department of Housing and Construction which indicates that in 1977-78 there were about 58,000 applicants for a home savings grant and in 1978-79 there were 45,000 applicants. So each year in Australia over 50,000 young people or first home buyers are being given a grant to help them purchase their first home. The cost of this scheme to the Government in 1977-78 was $36m. Last year, 1978-79 the cost was $5 5m, and in $1 979-80 the Government will be paying out $70m to first home buyers in this country, people who are seeking to establish themselves in a home which they will own and which will be their first home. Therefore the commitment by the Government is increasing on a massive scale. From a level of about $36m two years ago it has now doubled to $70m. Of course the scale and the payment of grants rise as the program extends and the 
Government felt that it was necessary to limit the scope of the grants to those people who were most in need. 
To indicate to the House some idea of the characteristics of successful applicants- this is where the whole thrust of the Scheme denies the argument put forward by the honourable member for Reid- 67 per cent of the people availing themselves of the grant were married couples; 13 per cent were engaged couples; a further 1 5 per cent were single applicants; and 3 per cent were widowed, divorced or permanently separated. The most common age group is the most important factor. Who are the people buying these houses? Who are the people availing themselves of the Home Savings Grants Scheme? The most common age group is the group aged between 21 and 25 and most of these people are married. 
Yes, young people in the 2 1 to 25 age group buying their first home. These are the people that the Scheme has been devised for. These are the people who, of course, cannot live at Vaucluse, and they never have tried to purchase a home there. What these people do is purchase their first home, improve the gardens and improve the home, and then sell it and move on to something better. That is the way Australia works. The Opposition would have these people live in a suburb for the whole of their lives. The thrust of the speech of the honourable member for Reid was that these people should not seek to change their suburb. He tried to restrict them by saying that these people cannot live in Vaucluse. Of course they cannot live in Vaucluse because the cost of housing there has always been expensive. But people upgrade their position and the type of accommodation in which they live. We have to have a program which is flexible, which allows people to improve, to sell, to move on and to reinvest. In fact, 87 per cent of the men, and 89 per cent of the women, were under the age of 35. The total program is designed for the younger members of our community who are buying their first home. But it is not restricted to them. Everybody has a chance if it is his first home. 
It is interesting to note that 67 percent of these homes were built in capital cities and the rest were built in country areas and country towns. This Government allowed that provision. This Government allowed country people to share in this program and it allowed them to build outside city areas and on rural properties. In country areas many young people have benefited from this program. The average cost of all homes purchased was $33,500. To me that would seem to indicate that the argument we have heard that there should not be a limitation, and all the talk of median cost, means nothing. By talking of median costs we are striking an average price. The Opposition is including all sorts of nouses in the proposition it put forward. It is not putting in the houses that young people can buy. 
As is shown by the statistics of this scheme, the houses that people do buy have an average price of $33,500. Therefore, the scheme is working as it was designed to work. As prices rise the Minister has the capacity to extend the limit. He can extend the limit by regulation only. I am sure that that must be done. I am not saying that the limit should be held at $35,000, or an absolute limit of $40,000, forever. There has to be flexibility within the scheme. The Minister has the flexibility in this legislation. But at the moment the Opposition claims that the price of a house and a block of land is rising at the rate of $1,000 a month-or $12,000 a year. This is just not on. I do not know where the Opposition is getting its statistics. That just does not make sense to me. People are buying houses at an average price of $33,500. This is shown in the scheme. 
If we then seek to analyse a little bit further the type of person involved, and where he will build, we will see that the statistics that the Department has furnished indicate that the cost and the limitations of people in New South Wales and Victoria does slew the scheme in favour of those people living in Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, and, only to a moderate extent, those in the Australian Capital Territory. This program must be monitored or it will cause the problems referred to by the honourable member for Reid. He said that the scheme was a disaster and that it should be wiped. Only six months ago he was saying to us that we ought to do what we have done. The program does need to be monitored and I know that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  and his Department will do that. Therefore, if there is a need for an indexation process it should be carried out. I am confident that there is every chance of it being carried out. 
I now come to some of the matters of a general nature which were raised in a speech made by the honourable member for Reid. I am concerned about his statement on the Home Savings Grants Scheme. At page 5 12 of  Hansard  dated 8 March 1 978, 1 noticed that he says that he would drop the Home Savings Grants Scheme. 
-On 8 March 1978, in reply to a comment made by the Minister, the honourable member said that he would drop the scheme again. This is to be found in  Hansard. 
I am accurately quoting from  Hansard of %  March 1978 at page 5 12. 
I will drop the matter but I do not see any explanation recorded on that day at the end of the speech made by the Minister. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Reid asked for that statement to be publicly withdrawn in the House. But I am quoting from  Hansard  as I have it. Under those circumstances I would think that there has been some adjustment within the Labor Party for a change of view on this matter. But the Opposition again comes forward with this concept of public housing and expenditure and this is what really concerns me. In funding public accommodation in the country, the best the Labor Party could do at the height of its program was to allocate a total of 8 per cent of expenditure on housing. In a large industry that is not a significant amount. In a period of one month the savings banks loan funds which amount to more than the total made available for welfare housing in Australia in any one year. Therefore, what the Opposition is holding out to the community has to be considered in context. I do not believe that what it proposes as a movement of massive expenditure on public housing will achieve any more- if the Opposition were given the opportunity to introduce their scheme- this time than it did last time. The Labor Government then achieved a maximum 8 per cent of total housing expenditure. It is of concern to me that with costs and with the number of applicants who are seeking State housing commission accommodation, which means it is falling, the Opposition is now coming forward with a program such as this. The facts that I have, based on six-monthly periods over the last two years, indicate that the number of people seeking housing commission accommodation has dropped from a peak of 105,000 in 1974 to 73,000. Since this Government has come into office there has been a reduction of over 30,000 people on the waiting list. 
The Opposition says that the Government's policies are not working. The people who are most deserving and most in need of housing assistance are being helped. There has been a reduction of 30,000 in the number of people seeking housing commission accommodation. The Opposition says that it is not a package. Of course it is a package. Any Government which comes into this country and which does not have as a basis for operation a commitment to reduce inflation and to reduce interest rates, will contribute nothing to the ability of people  to  purchase their own homes. That is the thrust of Government policy and in fact that is the thrust which has allowed so many young people, and citizens of all types, to start buying their own homes; to move off the welfare list and to be able to afford their own homes. This concept of a commitment to the underlying economic factors, and a commitment to encourage home ownership, is what is enshrined in this legislation. It is confined to those most in need and it will be carried out by a government committed to the need to encourage people to own their own homes. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
On a point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if the honourable member for Reid finds the material that I used that was in  Hansard  offensive - 
If the honourable member for Reid finds it offensive I have no hesitation in withdrawing any imputation. But if he apologised to me only because the Leader of the Opposition is in the House, I want a proper apology. 
-I welcome the introduction of the amendments to the Public Accounts Committee Amendments Bill 1979. I refer the House to comments made in 1951 by  Mr Bland  who was the then honourable member for Warringah. I notice that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is at the table. He is not only the present member for Warringah but also a former member of the Public Accounts Committee.  Mr Bland,  in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech, made particular mention of the re-establishment in 1951 of the Public Accounts Committee. He said: 
I welcome the assurance of His Excellency that the Government intends to revive the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Accounts that has been out of action since 1932. Only by having standing committees on legislation, accounts, and foreign affairs, will the Parliament be able to maintain its authority and prestige in any conflict with the Government. I was glad to hear mat action will be taken in this direction. 
The very objectives which were sought during the period have been carried out by successive public accounts committees. It is a pleasure to serve on the Public Accounts Committee. The public scrutiny that is undertaken is extended by the legislation into the area of efficiency audits. The concept of efficiency audits in the Public Service and of actions of government is most significant because in the world outside- the world of private enterprise, the commercial world- one is aware of the pressures of the market place to maintain an efficiency and a level of competence and skill that is under constant scrutiny and constant surveillance. 
The Public Accounts Committee has a responsibility to this House, to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. It is not strictly a process of government in any sense but one which seeks to protect the public purse and the expenditure of public funds in such a way that citizens of the nation can have confidence in the decisions of the structures of government. I should think that that confidence must be preserved at all costs and should be something that this House holds dear. It is, in fact, one of the very basic tenets of our responsibilities and the responsibilities with which we are charged when we come to this place representing a community, a constituency or an electorate.  Mr Speaker,  it would seem to me that at this stage I should seek leave to continue my remarks on this most important amendment to an Act that was reintroduced in 1 95 1 . 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Public Accounts Committee meets in the committee rooms of parliament and is comprised of members of the House in the same way in which the House itself is comprised. This allows for a balance of decision-making. The  Chairman  of the Committee comes for the Government side of the House. However, the work of the Committee is done in a strictly non-partisan sense. Members seek to ensure that the expenditure of public funds is carried out in the best possible way and that full accountability is made to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. 
During meetings of the Public Accounts Committee, observers from various specialised departments and sections of government attend to advise the Committee and to assist the Committee. However, they are not witnesses in the full sense of the word. The observers who attend Public Accounts Committee meetings comprise officers from the Auditor-General's Office- this is because the Committee generally takes up matters which are raised in the AuditorGeneral's report- officers from the Public Service Board who can advise and assist in matters of routine and relationship between various departments and personnel within departments, and officers from the Department of Finance, who have the responsibility for the assessment and the preparation of government accounts. I pay tribute in particular to the officers who attend and who observe and, as needs be, assist the Committee. The Committee has a good relationship with the departments and the sections of government with which it works. It is seeking to strengthen the understanding between the parliamentary responsibility and the responsibility which is of a functional nature and which prepares, guides and audits in the preparation of public accounts. 
The powers of the Committee are wide. It has powers to call for papers or for people. In fact, the capacity of a witness before the Committee is that of a witness before the High Court. This charges members of the Public Accounts Committee with accepting a great degree of responsibility in everything that they do because it would be detrimental to the Committee to act out of political motive. It would be detrimental to that Committee to pursue vindictively individuals or departments or Ministers to the detriment of the well-being of the Australian people. To my knowledge, the Public Accounts Committee has never done that, and I do not think that it ever will. But I say to the House, that if we pursue committees in the way in which we are pursuing them, I am not sure that the work of the chamber itself will be as successful as it has been in years gone by. For it seems to me that we as a parliament must decide whether we are going to become specialists in committees and procedures that seek detail of government administration or whether we choose this place as a forum for political contest. 
At the moment we have a sensible balance. However, if we pursue the committee system too far we will lose something of the political life and the commitment which we make here in the House. So the Public Accounts Committee, which is one of the longest serving standing committees of this Parliament, is having historic changes made to the legislation under which it operates. It is given the capacity to look at statutory organisations which were referred to by a member of the other place as qangoes or quasiautonomous national government organisations. These are organisations which are established by government to carry out governmental functions but which are not under the direction of a Minister. They have a head. They are an authority or a commission and they carry out activities with the powers of government, but they are responsible to government only through an annual report or by reporting to the Parliament in some other way. 
The extension of the Committee's power to cover statutory bodies and other financial institutions has been the concern of many individuals. The ability of the Public Accounts Committee to pursue those statutory organisations which it has examined in the past only through the Auditor-General's report, is the important feature of this legislation. What I am saying is that in the past the Public Accounts Committee may have acted improperly in looking at statutory organisations. That will not be so following the declaration of this legislation. I feel that the Public Accounts Committee should divide its time between the formal function of examining Auditors-General reports, looking at the details of the operations and the functions of departments, and the pursuit of statutory bodies. I commend the Government, the Committee itself and my fellow members because I believe that they honestly pursue their work with dedication and capacity. I commend also the  Chairman, Deputy Chairman  and staff of the Committee. I look forward to a stimulating and interesting period as the Committee moves to take up the advantages presented to us by this legislation. 
