-I direct a question to the Minister for External Affairs. Did  Sir Alexander  Downer, Australia's High Commissioner in London, say  inter alia in Durban, South Africa, on 18th November last that both South Africa and Australia were rising powers, with a capital P, in the southern hemisphere and that unless he was much mistaken we would in the future have important common strategic interests? Will the Minister table  Sir Alexander  Downer's full1 statement and make it clear that the Australian Government does not identify itself with South African strategic interests in the Indian Ocean any more than it does with Russian interests in the same area? Will the Minister explain to some of the members sitting behind him that an attempt to show identity of Australian and South African interests plays into the hands of Russia and China? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I understand that the Address-in-Reply debate is one of the few occasions when members can deliver their political credo without being restricted to any particular topic. It corresponds to what my psychiatric colleagues call group therapy. Nonetheless I should like to spend 2 or 3 minutes on the specific problems of the electorate I represent. Having recently taken my seat in this House it is nevertheless not necessary for me to make reference to any previous member for the division of Prospect, as this is a new division. It is a new division covering many of the outer western suburbs of Sydney and therefore suffering under all the disadvantages of lack of government interest and concern for Australia's urban problems. The reason for this is, of course, at least partly that the number of inhabitants in each subdivision in this electorate is very significantly higher than in the rural electorates from which the Government draws its majority. The net result of this is great under-representation of the area in the House where policies should be decided. May I quote the Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam).  He said: 
Most Australians live in cities. Their specific needs as city dwellers are almost wholly ignored by our conservative opponents. No other national government in a federal or unitary system ignores  the specific needs of cities and their people as ours ignores them. No national government in any other federal system would claim, as ours does, that these problems are exclusively problems for the States. 
Differences in living standards amongst Australians are  inreasingly  those related to the provision of public services such as hospitals, schools, recreation facilities, public transport, roads and sewerage. Only governments can provide these services. Increasingly, lower standards are related not solely to family incomes but to the availability and quality of government services. In the provision of these there is, increasingly, discrimination against those living in new suburbs. 
The burden of new urban development and the provision of basic services in the suburbs fall more and more on those least able to pay. Local government gels its revenue from rates and charges. State governments get their revenue by indirect taxes and charges. All these indirect taxes are inherently unfair in their incidence. They fall most heavily on those with smaller incomes anil larger families. 
I do not want to add anything more to this because I think it expresses our point of view - certainly my point of view - quite clearly. Before coming to the main part of my speech I should like to pay tribute to the outstanding leadership given to the Labor Party during the recent elections. This tribute is sincere as in our Party, unlike the Liberal Party, the power of patronage is absent. This is not intended as a reflection on the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  I would have voted for him if I had been offered the choice given the Liberal members following the last election. He does at least appear to be closer to the 1970s than his predecessors and competitors. I would place this Government's views somewhere near those of the 1956 Eisenhower Administration. 
Why did 1 choose to enter Federal politics? This is a question that has been asked of me repeatedly and which I asked myself repeatedly during the first week of the sittings. Why did I leave my young family for this semi-monastic part time existence? Why did I leave my profession - always quite well paid and now about to receive one of its greatest boosts in income? Basically I have always been a political animal concerned with the utmost preservation and extension of freedom. I arrived in this country in my early teens from Fascist Italy, at a time when Hitler was about to spread an even more totalitarian regime over nearly the whole of Europe. Amongst my earliest political memories are warnings from my parents not to reveal in school that we listened to the BBC news or Abyssinia and Spain or that they or their friends were highly critical or disrespectful of II Duce. 
Fascism in all its successful aggressive forms was defeated, but freedom is far from secure. There are obviously a number of reasons for this. One is the threat of another expansionist totalitarianism claimed to be Socialist or Communist by its supporters and some of its opponents. I would, of course, deny that it is anything but a complete perversion of these ideologies. As a reaction to this clear threat there has been, in many of the democracies, an excessive over-reaction. I bracket these so-called Communist and anti-Communist threats to our freedom together, as they have much in common and share the same lack of faith in human beings making a correct decision when given all the facts. 
The second and possibly more insidious threat to any effective enjoyment of our freedoms is an attempt on the part of many governments to disclose as little significant information as possible. This is illustrated in the case of this Government by the volumes of meaningless Press statements issued by most Ministers, all informing us of their decisions and the massive support for them, but never putting the objections raised before the decisions were made. Ti. in fact, no objections were ever raised inside the departments concerned, then the position is even worse and I would suggest that they use the method of a not excessively democratic organisation - the Roman Catholic Church during the last few centuries - and employ a devil's advocate. T would be happy to offer my services in such a capacity and it appears to me, as a newcomer, that there are some on the back benches opposite who would be prepared to act in this capacity if they were but given the chance. 
When somebody, for financial reasons or otherwise, tries to provide background material which Ministers consider unsuitable for public consumption, pressure is exerted to prevent publication. We saw an extreme case of this last year when Commonwealth Police raided the premises of Maxwell Newton Pty Ltd and the private home of the proprietor. Whilst the prosecutions failed, the Government's performance no doubt acted as a warning lo others. 
I would say that in the last Parliament only the honourable member for Parkes  (Mr Hughes),  could see the silver lining in this black cloud of authoritarianism. As, I think, Alan Ramsay in the 'Australian' predicted at the time, he was right. I congratulate him on his new position of Attorney-General and only hope that he has learned the correct lesson. 
Other examples of this fear by Ministers and, I suspect, their departments to prevent adverse information becoming available are illustrated by the refusal of a New Guinea entry permit to Professor Gluckman, a permit to visit Groote Eylandt to Professor Rose, numerous refusals to Australians to visit places in the Northern Territory and the system of D notices in the mass media. It is obvious that this fairly successful attempt to prevent informed discussion inside and outside Parliament assists the tendency towards government by regulation. 
But even when legislation is brought to this House for fairly informed debate there is no real provision for amendment. Still speaking as an observer from the outside, it appeared to me that almost every Bill' is treated as a matter of confidence in the Government and it is extremely rare for amendments to be accepted following discussion in the Committee stages. May I urge the Government strongly to consider the establishment of parliamentary committees to hold hearings on almost every piece of proposed legislation before a Bill is presented to this House. Much of the legislation deals with matters where the views of interested experts - be they legal, economic, scientific and otherwise - would be of great help. 
In addition 1 would argue that in a pluralist society all the pressure groups with interests in a particular piece of proposed legislation are entitled to be he:rd when it counts, that is, before the final Bill is presented to Parliament. Refusal to set up such committees implies that all the experts are employed in the appropriate government department, an opinion unlikely to be held by the staunch defenders of the free enterprise system opposite. We have recently seen Committees of the Senate which have been forced on the Government, and the Nimmo Committee, set up by this Government with inadequate terms of reference, elicit some very interesting information. I certainly believe that it is better to discuss a question even without settling it, than to settle a question without discussing it. The United States example of congressional committees has always impressed me. In addition to the advantage 1 have mentioned earlier, namely that legislation would improve, I would argue that it would involve more people in politics and make many more feel that they can influence political decisions. This is essential if we are to have an active democracy viable enough to stand up against anti-democratic pressures. 
This brings me to a fairly large group of young people containing a large proportion of students and graduates who are loosely labelled as dissenters, radicals or new left. I am in sympathy with what I consider their general outlook on life; that is a society with the vision of freedom, of spontaneous co-operation and of men's conscious selfdetermination. One of my great disappointments is that many of them are unable to see that today this country, and for that matter even more so the United States, are to the 'left' of the United Soviet Socialist Republics and of China as of today. Antiauthoritarianism, the right to dissent, the possibility of being able to change the governments, the general level of civil liberty are the issues which should be the main internal concern of the 'left*. 
Whilst it is easy to understand their fierce opposition to this government's war in Vietnam it is depressing that so many of them are prepared to argue that the North Vietnamese regime represents any of the values they hold dear in this country. I do, however, blame this Government, which has been in power for over 20 years, for not adapting our forms of government to the late twentieth century. For example, the lack of involvement of academics in government is deplorable. At present it appears to the students that on many issues all the experts are on their side, but that the Government ignores them completely. If we had Parliamentary committee hearings the conflicting views of academics would be heard, they would feel involved and many of the students who have the feeling, which is at least partly justified, that their only chance to influence policies is to demonstrate in the streets would see that there are other ways. At the same time I would certainly argue that the dissenting young are necessary to any healthy democracy and they perform a service to society by pointing out evil and injustice without necessarily offering alternatives. Much of what they say needs to be said and evokes certain echoes in anyone who has ever been angry over the stupidity of war, over a piece of blatant official or newspaper hypocrisy, over slums, over our treatment of Aboriginals or anyone who has ever felt alone in his views. 
The currently sitting Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse appears to be dealing with one of the issues, where many of the young dissenters feel governments and society in general are hypocritical. I refer to the heavy penalties prescribed for those smoking marihuana. Scientific evidence is fairly unanimous that marihuana is not a particularly dangerous substance, certainly less so than tobacco and alcohol. As a non-smoking teetotaller who does not use marihuana and disapproves of the  use  of all three substances, may I agree with them that society is extremely hypocritical on this issue. What society really docs is to try to enforce conformity. The 
Objection  is not that they use a different kind of euphoria producing substance, but that  they  dress differently, cut their hair differently, are more open in their defiance of fundamentalist Christian sexual laws and are less concerned with the accumulation of consumer goods. 
May I express the hope that this Federal Parliament will give the lead to Australia in removing from the statute book laws dealing with crimes without victims. These include, to my mind, statutes dealing with homosexual offences, termination of pregnancy, censorship and prostitution. In passing, I noted today that the Crown Solicitor.  Mr Renfree,  has put up a somewhat similar proposition. I understand that the Canadian Prime Minister,  Mr Trudeau,  is visiting Australia later this year. When paying tribute to him let us remember that it was he who said: T will not legislate regarding people's behaviour in their bedrooms'. Whilst advocating what some call a permissive society, and I consider a civilised society, may I also urge the Government to accept the Labor Party's amendments on conscientious objection, even if it refuses to abolish conscription. May I quote from the United States Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter on war approved at their national conference in November 1968 by 180 votes to 8 as it is clearly applicable to us. The letter states: 
The present laws of this country (US), however, provide only for those whose reasons of conscience are grounded in a total rejection of the use of military force . . . but we consider that the time has come to urge that similar consideration be given to those whose reasons of conscience are more personal and specific. We therefore recommend a modification of the Selective Service Act making it possible, although not easy, for so-called selective conscientious objectors to refuse- without fear of imprisonment or loss of citizenship - to serve in wars which they consider unjust or in branches of service (e.g. the strategic nuclear forces) which would subject them to the performance of actions contrary to deeply held moral convictions about indiscriminate killing. 
To me it is a shocking indictment that men carrying out the principles laid down by the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal are at present in Australian gaols. 
I hope that this House will have gathered from the foregoing that unlike the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  I would not deny that it is my aim to be a member of a ginger group. That is quite easy, at this stage, when there are fifty-nine of us. I do, however, undertake to remain such a critic after the next election, if I am re-elected, when we move to the government benches and when the present Leader of the Opposition becomes Prime Minister. I shall do my utmost to ensure that what he stated in the Max Poulter Memorial Lecture in 1968 will remain the new Labor Government's policy. My basic reason for belonging to the Australian Labor Party for 25 years and now being a member of this House are well expressed by this extract from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition: 
When Labor's policies are applied, Australia will certainly be a richer country in the quality and equality of life. No democratic socialist, however, no member of the Australian Labor Party, could be content wilh a vision which merely envisaged the ever-growing production of goods, even if those goods were more equally shared. A rich society is just as likely to be a conservative society as a truly liberal one. The Great Society is not automatically the good society. The good society, the free society, will be judged on the place it allows and the values it places upon tolerance, originality, creativity, non-conformity and diversity. It is very much part of Labor's task  today to see rhat these values are not eroded hut are enshrined and enhanced in our society. We should view with alarm any developments which threaten traditional liberties. We need to resist measures which intrude upon the rights of the individual. 
When the police force of an Austraiian State or. may 1 add the ACT falls back upon organised brutality to coerce demonstrating students, there is more at stake than civil rights. 
When operatives of the security service obtain the right to listen in to telephone conversations, something over and above the individual's guarantee of privacy is lost. 
Trash, but not trash alone, will be the victim of censorship. 
We cannot ignore and we must oppose the racialists among us. We should not be blind to their motives and methods. 
The sort of government which Australia requires in the third third of the twentieth century is not government which lavishes ingenuity on measures designed to restrict what the individual may think, see, read or do. lt is rather a government which will apply itself to the search for ways in which to expand the limits of individual liberty and opportunity. And the dividend to be secured through such government is not in individual happiness alone, but in the development, well-being and security of society itself. 
J thank honourable members for their attention. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
In areas where the destruction of public telephones is common, would his Department consider the possibility of installing public telephones inside private properties, the installation being free in exchange for the provision of some protection for the telephone. 
Has the Minister for 
Health seen a report in a Sydney newspaper which is closely associated with this Government - The Paper You Can Trust' - claiming that the Minister has suggested a 'face saver' in his discussions with representatives of the Australian Medical Association? This will entail a tightening up of the referral system for specialists. Referrals will only be made for any operation- 
-I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior a question. Bearing in mind the occurrence during the visit of the United States Vice-President and bearing in mind the forthcoming Vietnam Moratorium campaign, can he tell the House whether his attention has been drawn to a statement at Monash University by the Secretary of the Victorian Police Association, Inspector W. D. Crowley? Was Inspector Crowley reported as saying that the most effective way of dealing with demonstrators was nonaggression and that they should be treated with the greatest possible tolerance? If so, could he draw the attention of the Australian Capital Territory police and visiting New South Wales police to this statement? Further, could he invite Inspector Crowley to lecture to the Australian Capital Territory Police Force? 
I shall take only about 2 or 3 minutes,  Mr Speaker.  About 4 weeks ago the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  tried to upset honourable members by suggesting that at least 25% of them had broken the law regarding illegal termination of pregnancy by having in some way conspired to break that law. To my knowledge there has been little evidence that members were upset. That is probably explained by the fact that polls have shown that some 90% of United States citizens - I assume that ours are no different - have admitted to breaking a law which, if prosecuted, could have led to their imprisonment. At this stage it may sound as if I intend to speak on the argument that we were having earlier in the day; but I assure the House that I am not. 
Today we have been shocked by the sudden death of  Senator McKellar.  May I try to upset honourable members by referring to their most likely mode of death. Probably some 33% of all the members of this House will experience one or more episodes of myocardial infarction or coronary occlusion. Probably some honourable members have already survived one. In 1967 about 29% of all deaths in Australia were due to coronary disease, and the proportion in males is much greater than that in females. Of all men between 40 and 60 years with no evidence of coronary disease at the present time, 1 in 14 will develop the condition within 6 years. Statistically 50% to 60% survive the first episode. 
Most cardiologists would now agree that the biggest improvement in salvage rates can be obtained by prompt treatment in the first few minutes or hours. Some 30% of victims die almost immediately, and we know of no feasible way of preventing this. However, 20% out of the other 70% could benefit from almost immediate treatment. Death before or during transfer to hospital is too frequent. This mortality could be reduced if personnel and facilities now available in coronary care units in many of the major hospitals could be transported to the patient awaiting the ambulance and could accompany him to the hospital. These would include doctors or specially trained nurses, electrical monitors, direct current defibrillators, intravenous infusions and drugs. This should be possible in large urban areas. 
The scheme has been successful in overseas cities and has been introduced in Perth and in Sydney's eastern suburbs. In Sydney the scheme is run by St Vincent's Hospital, and I understand from newspaper reports that last night the St Vincent's Hospital special coronary ambulance was called to  Senator McKellar  but he could not be saved. Overseas figures suggest that a 9% increase in the salvage rate is possible with this special equipment, and the proportion is even greater in younger victims. 
I therefore urge the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to ask the appropriate people in his Department, possibly in co-operation with the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  to set up such a unit in Canberra where, 1 think we all would agree, so many valuable lives could be saved and to see whether money could be given to the States or to teaching hospitals to enable city hospitals and ambulance services to establish such emergency units. I commend this matter to the Minister for Health. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is there a residency qualification, notwithstanding naturalisation, of 10 years for eligibility for an age pension and 5 years for eligibility for an invalid pension for migrants from most countries. 
If so, do some migrants therefore receive the invalid pension until they reach the age of 65 years (for males) or 60 years (for females) and then lose all pension benefits until they have been in this country for 10 years and become eligible for an age pension. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Can  a  War Service Homes loan be made available for the building of  a  workshed beside a house to enable the owner to use the building for home carpentry or a similar hobby. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. In how many of our hospitals receiving grants from the Commonwealth are tissues removed at operation routinely examined in pathology departments in order to provide final proof of the diagnosis for which the operation was performed? In how many of our hospitals are medical and surgical audits performed, covering admission, provisional and final diagnosis, morbidity and mortality rates? How do these rates compare with equivalent hospitals in the United Kingdon, the United States and Sweden? How can one compare hospital standards in Australia with standards in these countries without knowing facts such as these? 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Francis  James, formerly editor of The Anglican' newspaper, have an Australian passport when entering China. 
If so, what protection or assistance will the possession of an Australian passport afford  Mr James  whilst in a foreign country. 
Will he take steps to discover  Mr James'  whereabouts and arrange for his return to Australia should this be  Mr James'  wish. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that wage increases granted to some personnel of his Department on 1st January 1970 will not be paid for another 4-6 weeks because of administrative difficulties in the pay section. 
Why have the same difficulties not prevented pay deductions in respect of employees who took part in a strike in March 1970. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many officers are employed by the Adult Education Council in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
How many adult students are enrolled in courses conducted by the Council. 
How many students are indigenes. 
How many students are expatriate Australians. 
What courses are provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Is a new mess being built for officers al the Royal Australian Air Force No. 1 Central Ammunition Depot, Bringelly Road, Kingswood. 
How many officers will be catered for at this mess. 
What is the estimated cost of the building. 
What is the estimated cost of ancillary works, such as roads, required for this building. 
Are adequate messing facilities in exigence now. 
I refer to paragraph (b) (b) of clause 8 which seeks to amend the definition of professional service' in the principal Act to provide, among other things, for a prescribed medical service that is rendered in an operating theatre of an approved hospital by a legally qualified dentist or dental practitioner approved by the DirectorGeneral for the purposes of this definition. In some way this amendment indicates the complete lack of thought behind the legislation. Let us examine what it refers to. No doubt this arises out of the Nimmo Committee's report in which there is special reference to oral surgeons who carry out many of the procedures which medical practitioners also carry out. 
If a person is a patient of a medical practitioner and the medical practitioner carries out the procedure the patient is entitled to a rebate from his fund, but if the procedure is carried out by an oral surgeon - and in many cases the patient has no choice - he is not entitled to a benefit. I think that this is wrong. Nowhere in the Act is it stated how these oral  surgeons will be declared. Will every dentist be approved by the Director-General for the purposes of this definition? 1 am not sure what will happen. Will the person who receives treatment by an approved dentist or dental practitioner receive a rebate at the specialist rate or at the general practitioner rate? Many of the procedures appearing in the schedule come under 2 headings, specialist and general practitioner. 1 am sure that the Minister for Health has not thought about this, ls the dentist to be regarded as a specialist in this particular instance? For example, is the dentist who removes a foreign body from the mouth entitled to a higher rebate than a medical practitioner who performs the same service? Should he be treated as a specialist? I do not know, and I should like to hear what the Minister's thoughts are on this matter. 
Over 100 of the items covered in the schedules are performed by oral surgeons, so I am informed by oral surgeons. In fact, there are only a limited number of oral surgeons in Australia. In New South Wales, for instance, there are 20 to 30 who are recognised as oral surgeons. Will they be the only ones recognised for the purposes of this legislation? I certainly have no objection to - indeed I welcome - the aspect of the legislation which encourages people who require an anaesthetic for a particular procedure to be admitted into a public hospital and for the procedure to be carried out in an operating theatre. Far too many procedures involving anaesthetics are carried out outside public hospitals and outside operating theatres and this increases the risk to the patient. But it is also obvious to those of us who know something about these procedures that many of them do not involve the use of a general anaesthetic. In many cases they may require the use of a local anaesthetic and, in some cases, no anaesthetic is necessary. Will it become necessary for people to be admitted into a public hospital and to have the procedures performed in the operating theatre just to get a refund? The Government has proposed this clause and it could result in cluttering up our public hospitals. 
Let us consider a case where an oral surgeon is performing some particular procedure connected with a fracture of a mandible. If he has to take an X-ray - and as I understand it, unless the X-ray is taken inside the operating theatre the patient is not entitled to a refund - does he take the X-ray machine into the operating theatre? If he takes the X-ray outside the operating theatre - and it is the dentist rather than a medical practitioner who reads the X-ray - the patient is not entitled to a refund. I feel that the Minister and his officers in drafting this legislation have not thought clearly about the outcome of a literal application of this type of amendment 
Amendment No. 4 on the Opposition's circulated list proposes a review of the schedule of fees. 1 would strongly support some fixed time of review. When I was in medical practice I objected to the adverse publicity that arose when medical fees were raised. One had difficulty in obtaining any sort of agreement with the funds or with the Government to increase their contributions. I am sure that this is one of the main worries facing medical practitioners at the present time. I think the same kind of thing applies in my new occupation. I strongly argue that there ought to be some fixed method of reviewing the Schedule as it applies to members of Parliament. 1 turn now to the proposed amendment referring to eligibility and whether members have to belong to a fund for 6 months or 2 months and so on. I think it important that the Minister look closely into this aspect. Many people are being discriminated against. I cannot ascertain from this legislation whether this is still likely to happen. As we all know a significant number of females in Australia conceive their first child outside marriage. Therefore they are at most members of a medical benefits fund contributing at the single rate. Many medical benefit funds have adopted the line that contributors are not entitled to the maternity benefit or the benefit for a confinement if they subscribe at a single rate, even though the husband also may be a member contributing at the single rate. I think this is obviously wrong. I hope the Minister will assure me that when he examines the rules of these funds he will make sure that rules of that sort are not applied and that a determination on matters of this kind is not simply left to the good graces of the people at the desk who are interviewing these poor girls. That is not the way this should be determined. It is nobody's business  whether a girl was married or whether she contributed to a fund at the single rate at the time she conceived. She should not have to show that she was contributing to the fund at the family rate for 10 months before giving birth to a child. I have not had much time to deal with the large number of amendments proposed. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I take it we are still on clause 19. When we are talking about different kinds of specialists I would like to raise one matter which in some ways is interrelated with a later stags of the Bill - that part covered by the last stage of the guillotine. In effect, it refers to the Schedules which contain some thousands of items that we are supposed to discuss in 25 minutes tomorrow. There is no provision for the recognition of psychiatrists or the r representation on this committee. 1 would like to make the point that in those 25 minutes tomorrow we have to discuss 1,030 items for which there will be differential payments for specialists and general practitioners. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  :n his second reading speech I think referred to something like 300 items. He was wrong by only 736 as I counted them, and that was not a bad percentage. I suppose the same people who did the costing for the plan originally also counted the items. 
There is no provision for the recognition of specialist psychiatrists in the sense of hav'ng a psychiatrist represented on this committee. And what do we find? We find that attendance by a psychiatrist will be treated, according to the Schedule, as professional attendance by a specialist, and for a second or subsequent attendance his patient is entitled to a refund of S4 in the State of New South Wales. The second and further attendance of a patient attending a psychiatrist are usually lengthy attendances, of at least 1 hour. The cost is about S 1 5 and the refund is S4. Yet according to the Minister who drew up this Schedule there will only be a specified excess of Si. 50. When he can show me the psychiatrist who will see a patient for an hour and only charge S5.50 1 will be very interested to meet him. He will certainly not be one of the specialist psychiatrists whom we will be recognising under clause 19. 1 think th s again shows that the people who drew up this Bill just tossed all specialist attendances into 1 big box to get the results from the computer. They did not realise that psychiatrists were in a different position. They did not realise that in some cases the second attendance is longer than the first attendance. They just assumed that the first visit to a doctor takes a long time and the second visit takes a short time. In the case of some specialists this is not so. We again have the farcical situation where nothing is done to help the people who attend repeatedly for treatment. I would like to know who the Minister's psychiatric adviser will be. I. do not mean that in any personal sense but in the sense of consultant psychiatrists who will be helping to decide who the specialist psychiatrist will be who sees patients on the second and subsequent occasions and charges only $4 an hour. 
Did I understand the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to say that his circulated amendment No. (6) was proposed because, if it were not to be included in the Bill, no provision would have been available to pay the consultants employed by these 2 committees? If so, does this not increase the cost of this legislation? Should not this amendment be ruled out of order in the same way as many of our amendments have been ruled out of order? Surely if this amendment, if carried, would increase the cost of the legislation, because we would pay some consultants, it should be ruled out of order as half of our amendments have been ruled out of order. 
Expenditure o£ a capital nature and expenditure in respect of administrative expenses (including the remuneration of members of committees established under this Act) incurred by or on behalf of the Commonwealth for the purposes of this Act shall be paid out of monies from time to time appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose. 
That is a separate appropriation and is not affected by the appropriation that has been set aside already in relation to this BilL 
Therefore, to that degree the amendment is in order. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 19a. 
-I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "19b. After section 35 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 
(1.) Where a claim by a medical practitioner has been disallowed in whole or in part under sub-section (I.) of section thirty-four of this Act, the medical practitioner may, within twenty-one days after receipt of notice of the disallowance, appealto the Supreme Court of the State or Territory in which the medical practitioner resides againstthe decision of the Minister disallowing the claim. (2.) The Supreme Court of each State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred on the Supreme Court of each Territory, to hear and determine appeals under the last preceding sub-section. (3.) The Minister shall be the respondent in the appeal.  (4.)  Upon an appeal under this section the 
Court shall have regard to the evidence before the Committee of Inquiry and the report of the Committee. (5.) If the Court is satisfied that the medical practitioner has, in respect of the medical services specified in the report of the Committee, been guilty of failure to discharge conscientiously his obligations under the agreement entered into with the Director-General under section thirty-three of this Act, it shall dismiss the appeal but, if not so satisfied, it shall allow the appeal and set aside the decision of the Minister. (6.) The Court may order either partyto pay costs to the other party. (7.) The jurisdiction conferred by this section is exerciseable by a single judge of the Court, whose decision is final and conclusive. (8.) A medical practitioner is not liable under section thirty-four of this Act to pay an amount to the Commonwealth in pursuance of a decision by the Minister disallowing a claim in whole or in part until the expiration of the period within which the medical practitioner may appeal against the decision or, if an appeal is instituted, until the determination of the appeal.'.". 
This amendment seeks the insertion of a new clause after section 35 of the principal Act. It refers to the right of appeal by a medical practitioner against the decision of the Minister in disallowing part or all of his claim. If honourable members refer to the principal Act they will note that sections 34, 35 and 37 are relevant to this amendment. Section 34 refers to the disallowance of a claim after a report by a committee of inquiry. Section 35 refers to the termination of an agreement following a report of a committee of inquiry. Section 37 refers to an appeal by a medical practitioner who have been affected by the termination following a recommendation by the committee of inquiry in accordance with section 35. It strikes me that this is unfair. I have heard many statements from medical practitioners who have been involved with committees of inquiry. They claim that it is unfair that there is no method of appealing against decisions made by the committee. The committee of inquiry conducts its hearing in secret. It has certain rules of which in many cases the petitioner who comes before this committee is not aware. 
There have been disputes as to whether the petitioner can be represented by counsel. There have been all sorts of court cases for the purpose of trying to bring the Minister, the Director-General or the Deputy Director-General of Health to the court so that a doctor who has his claim disallowed may have some avenue of appeal. This amendment provides for the same method of appeal on the question of disallowances of a claim and the termination of an agreement, both resulting from the report of a committee of inquiry to the Minister, as is already provided for. It seemed reasonable to me, in preparing the case for this amendment, to allow the same type of appeal. When 1 was preparing this case I rang the medical practitioners who I thought might be associated with these committees of inquiry, but was unable to find anybody who is on a committee of inquiry. 1 even asked the local branches of the Australian Medical Association. I always finished up with somebody who had been on a committee of inquiry some years ago. Some of the propositions I am putting up now may or may not be true any longer, but nonetheless the reports circulated among medical practitioners indicate that they are still true. Therefore they deserve an answer from the Minister; but, more importantly, 1 think that some method of appeal should be provided. 
What happens at present is that if a pensioner is seen on numerous occasions - I do not know how many occasions that would involve, but it would involve significantly more frequent visits than to the average pensioner  -  a committee of inquiry may be set up to investigate the medical practitioner concerned. The medical practitioner has to supply the name of the patient together with the dates on which he has claimed to have seen him. He then has to give some reason why he has seen that patient on those days. It is often some years after the date of the medical service having been rendered and it is often very difficult to remember the exact details, even with the help of notes, of why a person had to be seen twice on one day. AH the doctor might write down is the word 'asthma'. He does not know whether the 2 visits on the same day were for asthma or for some other condition or complication. 
What happens is that a medical practitioner has to confront a committee of inquiry to answer a suggestion that 20 pensioners, say, have been over-visited. The committee of inquiry may find that in fact he should have visited those pensioners on only half the number of occasions on which he saw them.  His  payments are then reduced by 50% but, as I understand it, it is not only the payments in respect of those pensioners, but the whole of the amount for the period covered that is reduced by 50%. That seems quite ridiculous to me, because in the vast majority of cases he would have seen some of the pensioners on only one or two occasions and he obviously did not over-visit those pensioners. 
I am not suggesting that the people who have been dealt with by these committees of inquiry are necessarily innocent, because I do not know, but I think that in the ordinary interests of justice and in accordance with the general proposition which we put up and which the Minister himself puts up in clause 37, in which he allows this type of appeal, some right of appeal should be given against the decisions of the committees of inquiry. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I come back to the events in this House last week, especially on Thursday evening, 7th May. I am referring to what could be called euphemistically a debate on the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign, which had taken place in this House over the last few weeks and reached its peak on Thrusday evening. I am speaking as one who accepts the general proposition that from a democratic point of view the Govern nent of South Vietnam is preferable to that of North Vietnam. I suggest that very few - even on the Government side - would argue that the Thieu Government is democratic in our sense of the word. Many excuses can be made for it, some justified and some not. But 1 would argue that the North Vietnamese Government is an effective, at least fairly efficient, totalitarian regime. 
In the South something approaching this existed during the Diem regime, but not since that regime. Now there are opposition parties and publications. There are courts which occasionally reject the propositions put forward by government prosecutors. There are groups such as students, Catholics, Buddhists and veterans which occasionally at least demonstrate in the streets against the South Vietnamese Government. I emphasise the word 'against'. There is what many commentators call political instability. Surely this is essential in any state even approaching democracy. 
The only really stable government is one that has no opposition and controls, or more than likely is controlled by, the armed forces. None of this is intended to imply that I would support a Thieu Government even in Vietnam let alone in this country. But I do believe that, either because of the existence of large pressure groups or possibly of a public relations exercise insisted on by the United States of America, there do exist some symptoms, some signs of democracy in South Vietnam. Therefore, put at its minimum in contrast with North Vietnam, the South Vietnamese Government is not as effectively or efficiently totalitarian. I have put this at some length to indicate that I am not to be dismissed as a supporter of a North Vietnamese victory. 
Let us return to the Moratorium debate. For most of the time, it was fairly good natured. Government supporters tried to make political capital from it. Most of them made rather hypocritical statements about the Moratorium, obviously hoping to arouse public feeling against the Australian Labor Party. We in this House could tell that the bright ones among them, like the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  were addressing the Press rather than the House. They obviously did not believe what they were saying about the Australian Labor Party being under 
Communist control or about the packraping of democracy. I would be surprised if they did not continue their friendly personal relations with some of the leaders on our side whom they alleged to be nonsecret agents of Hanoi. 
The less bright ones, such as the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  did not even know their history. The Minister for Defence referred to the 'Reds' in the Australian Labor Party attacking Prime Minister John Curtin in 1939. Well, John Curtin was nol Prime Minister in 1939. I suggest that the Minister for Defence should go back to his job of school prefect. There was the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  who was no doubt concerned about the battering his oil shares had received on the free enterprise stock market and who was unwilling to. or maybe unsuccessful in. asking for divine intervention. He therefore developed a rather brilliant doc.torial thesis for the Bob Jones University in the United States of America that, alas, Lenin's predictions for Australia were coming true after only 50 years. He was kind enough to supply me with a photostat copy, footnotes and all. 
Then suddenly, last Thursday, the position changed - or, at least, the atmosphere changed. The Government Parties started to believe their own infantile propaganda. Democracy in Australia was in danger because a few thousand people were going to march the following day. The Leader of the Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  and the Minister for Defence ranted about the Communist threat. Government supporters packed in behind the Ministers and gave a terrifying exhibition of the law and order mentality. They cheered, stood up, congratulated the speakers and jeered at the Opposition. Tt was the Nuremberg Rally again. The Minister for Defence, allegedly the heir apparent in the Liberal Party, abandoned the role of head prefect and became the embodiment of a rather arrogant stormtrooper. As be stood there with his cheering minions one could picture him with the army boots and the armband. It was a disgusting exhibition. All the Government supporters had to wear badges depicting Australian flags to show that they were patriots ready to defend democracy against this imminent threat of Red invasion. In retrospect it may sound funny; but, at the time, it was terrifying. After all, democracy everywhere is a fairly fragile institution. I think that those of us who are in this House at least should do our utmost to keep it alive and growing. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of course was away. Maybe honourable members opposite felt that they should make a concession to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the super patriot, who has unerring instinct rather than logic. I emphasise that it is purely instinct in his case rather than logic. May I quote from Professor D. M. Armstrong, Philosophy Professor at Sydney University and a strong supporter of Government policy in Vietnam. He is here criticising a small section - and 1 repeat, a very small section - of Moratorium supporters who had suggested that some violence might be justified. He said: 
Violent action on social issues tends to bring into existence the very enemy that is feared. There has been recent talk in American left-wing circles of using violence to force society 'to show its fascist face'. The trouble with this tactic is that it is all too likely to be successful. The extraordinarily aggressive nature of man ensures that democracy is  a  somewhat fragile affair, even if it does not appear fragile to us living in Australia. There are powerful authoritarian and even totalitarian forces potentially, if not actually, present in all societies, including our own. Violence could activate such forces. 
As has been mentioned before on the question of Vietnam he conceded - 1 will quote him - and, further, I hope that everybody thinks about this: 
Vietnam is u controversial issue, and it is a controversial issue among democrats; among those who value and seek to maintain an 'open' and pluralist society. Men of good will and intelligence are to be found on both sides of the debate. Indeed, in view of the complexities of the problems of Vietnam it is better to say that men of good will and intelligence are to be found in every position in the multi-dimensional continuum of possible views about Vietnam. The facts, including both what happened in the past and what is happening now, are difficult to establish. They are still more difficult to interpret. The likely result of different policies that might be attempted: For instance, leaving substantial forces in Vietnam for an indefinite period, Vietnarnising the war, trying to force  a  coalition government with the NLF on the South Vietnam government, withdrawing totally and absolutely, are all exceedingly difficult to weigh and assess. The moral decisions involved must appear agonisingly difficult to all except those who have very simple minded views of the nature of man and society. 
I wish to emphasise those words. It is only the people who have extremely simple minded views of the nature of man and society who will see this clearly as black and white. 
I conclude by appealing to those Government supporters who value democracy not to be trapped again into exhibitions of mass hysteria. When they are watching or participating in the jockeying for position regarding who will be the next leader of the Liberal Party I hope that they will give the highest priority to the question whether the contender has faith in or contempt for the democratic processes. 
1 strongly support the amendments, having personally had trouble with these health insurance funds. When I became a member of this House in October last year I received, as no doubt did other honourable members, an invitation from the Hospitals Contribution Fund to become a member of that organisation. I received a letter asking me to write to the organisation if I wanted to know anything more about it. 1 duly did so and asked who the directors were and whether 1 could look at its articles of association. I was told that 1 was not going to be a member but a contributor and I was not entitled to know what 1 sought; that- this information was not available to anybody excepting organisations which, in turn, were affiliated with the Hospitals Contribution Fund. The next step 1 look was to try to get the information through the research services of the Parliamentary Library. T quote from its report: 
As discussed previously, there is some difficulty in establishing the names of directors of health funds. This exercise was attempted in the past in the Library through an attempt to collect the annual reports of the various funds. Some funds, however, have not yet replied to a request tor the supply of their latest annual report, while the reports of other funds which have been supplied do not contain the names of the directors of the organisation. 
The Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library did supply the names of certain directors of whom they were able to get hold by some method or another. I know that a considerable overlapping occurs between directors of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the membership of the Branch Council of the Australian Medical Association. Of the 24 members of the Medical Benefits Fund in New South Wales, 13 also are members of the Australian Medical Association, lt is not surprising that the AMA in many ways has become a pressure group not for doctors but for the self-perpetuation of directors of these funds. 
Let me be quite clear there. Some years ago. the Hospitals Contributions Fund and the Medical Benefits Fund organisations combined in New South Wales. They felt that it would be more efficient and more effective from the administrative point of view for the 2 major funds to combine. I assume that it would be better from an economic point of view. Those funds split up some 2 years later. The reason why they split up was not that the amalgamation did nol work out. The reason was that both  Mr Cade  and  Mr Turner  wanted to be the boss of the combined organisation. Since both of them could not be the boss al the same time, they decided to split the combined funds so that each could be the boss of one of them. lt is preposterous that we are forcing in effect every Australian to contribute to a medical benefit fund and a hospital contribution fund. Unless a- person does this, he is not entitled to any of the benefits, so called, from this Government. Members of the public are not told that they may join a fund. They are told: 'Unless you join this fund, you will not get any money that has been set aside from taxation for the purpose of hospital and medical services'. So, people must join these funds. 
These funds should not be called, as I have heard them, mutual funds for our mutual benefit. I suggest that the only nui rual benefit is that of the directors of those funds. One cannot even challenge the funds on their membership. We cannot have a go at them on this question because  we  are not told what is in this register that we are discussing. There is no public inspection of the register. No attempt is made to let any member of the public know who the directors are. 
We heard in the House earlier that one of the directors of the Hospital Contributions Fund appointed by  Mr Turner  was P. G. Huxley. This was in return for the appointment of  Mr Turner  to the National Art Gallery of New South Wales. Huxley is now in gaol. He is appealing against his sentence. 1 think it is ridiculous that the directors of this and other funds are not appointed even by a constituent organisation. lt appears that they are appointed by the boss of the organisation concerned. 
I realise that the Government does not want any interference with, this procedure. Let us be quite clear on this point: I would say that, during the election campaign last year, the medical benefits funds and hospital benefits funds put more money into the propaganda machine of the Liberal Party than any other organisation, including even the oil companies. I certainly would claim that slush funds were set up by ali these organisations. No attempt is made to let us know how the money in those funds is spent. No attempt is made to tell contributors how much of the money contributed to a fund goes towards political propaganda. After . all, whether we have voluntary health insurance or universal health insurance is now a political issue in this country. 
It has been said that people will lose their jobs if the proposals of the Labor Party are put into effect. The only people who would be affected adversely by Labor's alternative health scheme are the directors of those funds. Specifically, those who would bc affected are the people who run those funds, the managing directors and directors of them. We are not given any assistance to investigate the position of these men or to investigate whether they are carrying out their specific functions, even by perusal of their articles of association because we are not allowed to know what those articles of association are. I think that this is a ridiculous proposition. I would indeed be interested to hear the Minister indicate on what possible democratic basis he could advocate that sort of proposition. 
-1 should like to raise 2 points, one of which relates to section 101 of the principal Act. Under that section the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee is appointed to make recommendations to the Minister for Health. I should like the Minister to let us know whether he always acts on the reports of this Committee or whether, in fact, the question of cost is often the main question that concerns him. In other words, the Committee may well recommend that certain drugs should be made available as pharmaceutical benefits because, first, they are expensive and, secondly, they are essential for the treatment of certain conditions. But does the Minister take notice of that recommendation? I hope he will give us the courtesy of a reply. 1 know that he has not been able to reply to other questions that we have raised earlier during our discussions in the Committee stage. I notice that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has returned to the chamber. I ask the Minister how people are appointed to directorships of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. I remember that the honourable member for Bennelong was at some stage a director of that organisation. 
-I would appreciate it if at some later stage the honourable member would tell the Minister how people are elected or appointed. 
If  Mr Turner  does not nominate these people who does nominate them? Who nominated Huxley and in what capacity was he nominated to that Fund? 
We now have 15 minutes left in this debate to discuss 142 pages of Schedules after having had a very short visit from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  for the first time for some weeks to this House. There are large numbers of inconsistencies in these Schedules. In his second reading speech the Minister referred to 300 items that appeared as specialist and general practitioner items; 1 have counted 1,036 such items. 
With specialist and general practitioner, S and G respectively. 
It is 1,036. That is 518 separate items each with specialist and general practitioner rebates. The Minister probably got it all mixed up because he does not read his own Schedules. For example, he is not aware of the dislocation rebates for a specialist and general practitioner to which the honourable member for Macarthur referred: If in fact it is a dislocation with some complication there is a different charge and again there is a different rebate for specialist and general practitioner. In this case there would be 4 different items and not just 2. This is probably one of the very minor points as far as the Minister's lack of knowledge on this particular piece of legislation is concerned. 
A point I would like to refer to in passing is the ridiculous way in which refunds in respect of anaesthetists are dealt with. This is referred to on page 38 in Part 3. lt is still related in the old fashioned way to gaseous and non-gaseous. There is no provision at all for major advances in the speciality of anaesthetics and I think in some ways the worst feature is that it relates what anaesthetists are entitled to receive to the question of whether a surgeon is a general practitioner or a specialist. If I were an anaesthetist 1 would certainly prefer to be an anaesthetist for a specialist surgeon. It would be an easier job to be an anaesthetist for a specialist surgeon than for a general practitioner surgeon. Under this legislation I would be entitled to a bigger amount of money from the Commonwealth Government for being an anaesthetist for a specialist surgeon than for a general practitioner surgeon, because the common fee for anaesthetics is related to the basic Commonwealth medical benefit for the surgery, and as there is a greater Commonwealth benefit for an operation done by a specialist I am therefore entitled to a bigger refund if I am giving an anaesthetic for a specialist. 
Further, the fee charged for an anaesthetic ought surely to be related to the degree of difficulty of the anaesthetic, to the physical state of the patient and the time involved, and not to the degree of difficulty of the operation itself. I can well imagine that for an anaesthetist giving an anaesthetic for an appendicectomy on a very old person with all kinds of complications is a much more difficult procedure involving much more skill than giving an anaesthetic to a young person having an involved operation in the sense of the operation taking time, for example, plastic surgery for which the refund is much greater than for an anaesthetic. 
Previously I have given examples of the vast differences in the cost of prostatectomy operations depending on whether they are done in Melbourne or Devonport. There is the difference between $100 and $200 depending on which side of Bass Strait the operation is performed. There arc 136 pages of these examples. We have not been given the opportunity to go through them in any detail. I do not propose to go through them in any great detail now but I certainly hope that the Minister and hi.s advisers will have some go at this at some stage and make it fair for the patient. 
It is clear to me that again the Minister has given in to pressure by the medical benefit funds. The medical benefit funds have suggested the table of common fees. He gave this as a reply earlier in this debate when he obviously did not understand the question about psychiatrists' charges. When I asked him how he got the charges he said that they came from the medical benefit funds. The medical benefit funds just got an average charge for all specialties but did not pick out those for psychiatry. Psychiatrists were put down as 'Specialty-Special consultation, $4'. This clearly indicates that an editorial in the 'Australian Financial Review' was perfectly correct when it stated: 
What started off as a serious exercise in social engineering with the avowed purpose of removing the financial penalty that occurs through ill-health, has become a battleground of pressure groups with the public left forgotten on the side lines. Where does the patient rank in the policymaking now? 
The Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  who is nol even a member of the inner Cabinet, apparently interprets his position to be that of an adjudicator between pressure groups that have been institutionalised by Government machinery - listening to the health funds here, tut-tutting  at the Australian Medical Association there, speaking sternly to hospitals everywhere. 
He is the embodiment of what is wrong with the Liberal Government of today. 
Somewhere along the way the guiding principles of Liberalism have been subordinated to defending the policies and values that have been handed down from another era. 
At all costs (to the public) nothing must be done or said to antagonise the organised and vocal pressure groups. 
In Australia only the silent majority is defranchised. 
That is what the 'Australian Financial Review' said about the Minister and about the Liberal Government, and 1 heartily concur. As many members in this debate have pointed out, we have had the shocking spectacle of the Minister trying to implement a policy pronounced by his leader during the election campaign last October. He has had 6 months or so of meetings with the pressure groups mentioned and today and yesterday the Government has used the guillotine to railroad the whole lot through in 6 hours. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration. In view of ' the Government's decision to join the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other eastern bloc countries in refusing a temporary entry visa to the Socialist,  Dr Ernest  Mandel, and the resultant bad publicity, will the Government take the opportunity to consult with  Mr Trudeau  to find out how democracies protect themselves from the dangers arising out of such S-day visits? 
-I am about to finish. I would like to make the point that to be an effective democracy, to have reasonable people in Parliament, to have an informed public knowing what it is voting for, is partly connected with the Parliamentary Allowances Act. To some extent that Act does provide for electoral expenses. I wanted to throw this final point into the ring, realising that it would require much more thought on how to distribute the money raised for the various political parties.  1  realise that there would be arguments as to where the money would be distributed. Any money that is available could be distributed according to the number of honourable members in the House, or the number of votes received at the last election, or the amount of money that has been spent. I suggest to the Minister, to the House and to all honourable members in general, that they might at some stage think about this type of proposition bearing in mind that it is in fact at present in force in West Germany and that it has been considered in the United States. I commend the proposition to the House. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
What countries does he include when he speaks of the "free world'. 
Will he advise me when any changes to the list take place. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is he able to say 
how many judges and magistrates hearing cases arising out of conscription for the Vietnam war are members of political parties or organisations having views on conscription for this war; and 
how many judges and magistrates hearing cases arising out of demonstrations against the war in Vietnam are members of political parties or organisations having views on the propriety of this war. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement last week  "v  Mr  it.-i.son, Assistant Ministerial Member for  Co-operatives  in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea that unfair or unbalanced newspaper reporters should he removed from the Territory. 
If so, docs the statement by the Assistant Ministerial Member mean, that there is a need for some restriction on freedom, of speech in the Territory. 
If so, does the Government support this view. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has he received any proposals for law reform on Rhodesian lines from any Member of the House; if so, is he able to say who was the Member. 
Does he propose to follow the Rhodesian example and take steps to change the name of his Department to the Ministry of Justice, Law and Order. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor in 1964, the late  Senator Wade,  promise that the Government would cooperate with the States in an all-out educational campaign to discourage smoking amongst the youth of Australia. 
If so, when will the Government implement the promise. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In regard to the F-111 aircraft ordered by Australia 6 years ago, is it a fact that: 
the cruising range is 2,750 miles as against a specified range of 4,180 miles; 
the maximum high altitude speed is 2.2 times the speed of sound instead of 2.5 times as specified; 
the supersonic dash distance is 30 miles as against 210 miles in the specification; 
the acceleration from 0.9 to 2.2 mach is 4 minutes instead of the specified 1.45 minutes, and 
the take-off weight has increased by 20% to 82,500 lb. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
Is an appellant before a Commonwealth Public  Service  Promotions Appeal Committee entitled to an advocate. 
Is an appellant who is appealing against failure to be granted promotion entitledto see any allegations made against him. 
If an appellant is not entitled to see the allegations (a) how can he refutethem and (b) what is the relevant regulation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia does not reveal to the general public or its own subscribers its Articles of Association. 
If so, will he obtain and table the Fund's Articles of Association for the information of Members. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to Item (1) in the 'Soviet News Bulletin' dated 4th May 1970. 
If so. does this item consist of an attack on Indonesian Foreign Minister Adam Malik for calling a regional conference on Cambodia. 
ls he able to say whether this attack is another example of a united front between the large powers and their satellites against the countries of South-East Asia. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Have the German Federal Republic and the German Democratic Republic applied for membership of (he United Nations and in ils special organisations. 
Has Australia supported these applications; if nol, why not. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Has Australia ratified the International Convenant on Civil and Political Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 16th December 1966. 
Can he say what other countries have ratified this Convenant. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice:  (1)Is it a fact that a substantial number of changes have been made in the structure and performance of the F111 aircraft since it was ordered by Australia 6 years ago. 
Do the changes justify the greatly increased cost of the aircraft. 
asked the Minster for External Affairs, upon notice: 
How often Australia and New Zealand voted differently on questions before the United Nations and its agencies in the last 5 years. 
How many of these votes dealt with ques tions of (a) racism, (b) South Africa, (c) Rhodesia and (d) the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Are gaols in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea the only ones under Commonwealth control where it is permissible for leg irons to be used; if not, in which other Commonwealth gaols is their use permitted. 
Will he confer with State Ministers for Justice in order to ascertain in which other gaols their use is permitted. 
If honourable members look at sections 34, 35 and 37 of the principal Act they will notice that the committee of inquiry which the Minister has referred to can do 4 things. Section 34(1.) provides, inter alia: 
If a Committee of Inquiry . . . reports that ... a medical practitioner - 
should have been, or should be, paid an amount or a rate less than the amount or rale of fees or allowances prescribed by the regulation; or 
should not have been, or should not be, paid any amount, 
Section 35 provides that arising out of the inquiry the medical practitioner may be reprimanded or have his agreement terminated. In other words,  A  possibilities exist. The Minister has always accepted the proposition that there should be a right of appeal against the final 2 possibilities which exist as a result of a decision of a committee of inquiry that a doctor should not have done certain things. 
The Australian Labor Party is suggesting that in addition to his right of appeal on those 2 points there should also be a right of appeal when his money is not paid or when the amount of money due to him is reduced .significantly. Surely in both cases the decision must be partly based on professional grounds. I understand that repeatedly both things will happen, that the medical practitioner will be dealt with under sections 34 and 35. In other words, the amount of money due to him will be reduced or not paid at all and he will be reprimanded or his agreement terminated. Both these points come into it and yet he is entitled to appeal on only one of them. 1 cannot say why there should be this distinction and why there should not be the right of appeal on both grounds. 
Amendment disagreed to. 
Motion (by  Dr forbes)  agreed to: 
That amendment No. 9 be agreed to. 
The reason for the Opposition moving the amendment in the first instance and, 1 take it, the reason why the Senate accepted the amendment, was that the provision refers to cases where workers compensation claims, third party claims or cases of that nature have arisen. It also refers to cases where somebody has been injured and medical expenses have been incurred. In the case of an actual claim for damages being successful, I assume that in all cases there would be a statement by the court as to what proportion of the damages awarded would be in settlement for medical expenses. But in the case of a claim being settled this is not clear. An amount of, say, $1,000 may be awarded to. the claimant. It is then open to dispute whether this was in acceptance of part of the injury, all of the injury, pain and suffering, or one of the other issues that may have been involved. It may be in settlement of some damage to material property (bar could have been involved. Under the present legislation it is up to the Minister to decide. Section 21 (5.) provides: 
For the purpose of this section, the Minister may determine that (he whole or a specified part of a payment in settlement of a claim for compensation or damages shall be regarded as being in respect of" medical expenses incurred by  a  contributor. 
In some cases medical expenses can of course be a very large amount. They could amount to some thousands of dollars. Under the present legislation the amount that would have to be refunded may also be very significant because if the claim is covered by medical benefits and hospital contribution fund returns, the total cost to the patient may be relatively small - $5 or a little over. But if the claim is accepted as having been covered by workers compensation or third party insurance the person is not entitled to the refund, ft will therefore be necessary for that person to pay a very large amount of money to the hospital and to the medical attendants. We therefore feel that there should be some method of appealing against the Minister's decision, if, for example, the whole amount of the money was intended for compensation for the actual medical expenses incurred and none of it was for pain and suffering or other expenses incurred. We have therefore moved this amendment: 
That there shall be a right of appeal on the determination of the Minister under the last preceding sub-section by a contributor to the jurisdiction which determined or would have otherwise heard his claim tor compensation or damage. I cannot see the argument of the Minister that it is not clear as to which jurisdiction it would be, because if a cl'aim is settled after it was originally instituted, surely it must be put before a certain jurisdiction. I do not know the exact procedure. If we want to persist with the amendment do we vote against the motion by the Minister for the disagreement and at the same time foreshadow that if that motion is defeated we would move an amendment, or does it become automatic? Could 1 have some guidance on this point? Is there any need to foreshadow the amendment? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - There is no need to foreshadow the amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment disagreed to. 
Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  proposed: 
That amendments Nos 4, 5, 6 and 7 be agreed to. 
I think that the important part of the amendment which the Government is not accepting is that which seeks to add the words: a register shall be open for public inspection'. I suppose that amendment No. 10 and amendment No. 11, with which one of my colleagues will be dealing, are the most political of the amendments. In other words, we are dealing with the politics of the funds. We are dealing with people who support the Liberal Party which is in office - the people who are completely, devoted to the Government's so-called voluntary health insurance scheme. The whole crux of the matter can be seen in the action of the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in not accepting the proposition that the register shall be open for public inspection. 
But will the names of the directors be made public? Will the method of election inside the organisation be made public? Will the articles of association be made public? As the Minister knows, recently 1 asked him a question on notice about the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. I had found it impossible to obtain a copy of its articles of association. The Minister suggested in his reply that 1 get in touch with the New South Wales body responsible for company registration. 
Let us be quite clear about what is happening. We have so-called democratic funds such as the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria' of which 4 of the 53 directors are elected by the contributors. These funds are called democratic because, in this instance, 4 out of 53 directors are elected and the other 49 are not elected. On the other hand, we have the so-called undemocratic organisations such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia in which none of the directors are elected by the contributors. The contributors to these New South Wales funds are even unable to find out the position of the funds. It is obvious to me that the Liberal Party is trying to protect these directors who are to a large extent Liberal Party supporters, and of course are using fund money- contributors money - to support the Liberal Party. Even the recent report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, known as the Wedgwood Committee, which was released by the Minister's own supporters in the other place, has agreed that some $20,000 a year is contributed by- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the amendment before the Committee. 
1 am referring to the fact that the register is not to be open for public inspection. The amendment moved by the Opposition is being disagreed with. I suggest that the register should be open for public inspection and that it should be possible for us to find out who the directors are, who are the people who are paying $20,000 a year into a fund which is being used for purely political purposes. 
Sirring suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to amendment No. 10 which the Government has accepted in part. The main change that the Government proposes is to delete that part of the clause which provides that a register shall be open for public inspection. I was making the point that this was another example of how the Government protects its supporters in the hospital and medical benefit funds. As I have already said, even the Wedgwood report on the funds, which was issued since this Bill was before us last, admits that all the large funds, except the Hospital Contributions Fund of New South Wales, pay $20,000 a year for propaganda against the Labor Party. The point made in that report was that although the Hospital Contributions Fund does not do anything of the sort the other funds contribute to the Voluntary Health Insurance Council. The Hospital Contributions Fund runs its own organisation called the Office of Health Care Finance and spends more than $20,000 each year of its contributors' money there. 
I have in my possession a booklet that was sent to me in the last few weeks. It has a religious picture on the cover and beneath it is its title The Second Blessing'. It is a very impressive booklet. Beneath the title appears the words: 
An appraisal of voluntary health insurance as the ideal method for financing the costs of essential health care. 
lt will, as the honourable member for Grayndler points out. The booklet is straightout propaganda for the Liberal Party's health scheme. It makes continuous political points, and only political points. The important thing is that it uses contributors* money to do this. If the contributors had a say this would bc all right, but as I have pointed out the funds are completely undemocratic. The most democratic of them, the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria, has 4 elected directors out of 53 directors. The maximum number of directors representing contributors is 4, and usually those 4 are appointed at stacked general meetings and are usually employees of the funds. With the Hospital Contributions Fund of New South Wales and the Medical Benefits Fund of New South Wales there is no pretence at their having elected members. There is no pretence of holding annual meetings or of revealing how the funds are run and who decides what amount of moneys will be devoted to propaganda. 
I do not blame the Government for trying to protect the position, and it is doing this by deleting the provision that the register shall be open for public inspection. Information as to who runs these funds will not be available to the public. In many instances the directors of the funds are prominent members of the Liberal Party. They are members of the Australian Medical Association Federal and branch councils. In the case of the Voluntary Health Insurance Council, which is the propaganda organisation of many of these funds, the  President  and spokesman is  Sir Charles  Rieger who, until last week, was Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association. Honourable members can see that there is no attempt made by these funds to have the average cross-section of the community represented on their directorates. 
Yes. In the case of the Medical Benefits Fund of New South Wales 13 of its 24 directors are members of the Australian Medical Association and a large number of them are also members of the branch council of the AMA. I am pointing out these significant features just to draw the Committee's attention to the reason why the Minister has not accepted the proposition that the register should be open for public inspection. I think it is ridiculous and an affront to the public which is expected to subscribe to these funds; otherwise they get no benefit. Government money is used to support funds which, in turn, donate part of that money for political propaganda for the Liberal Party. In other words taxpayers' money is being used for straightout political propaganda. One of the main issues at the last Federal election was the question as to whether Australia would have a so-called voluntary health insurance scheme or the Labor Party's alternative health insurance scheme. This money is spent, as I have said repeatedly, because it is the Minister's continuous intention to protect his political supporters in the funds and not to let the public find out who is running the funds. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Is form P.B.10A4/70, Application for Authority to prescribe Intal. used to enable a Commonwealth Director of Health to decide whether authority should be granted. 
Are the answers to be used for research purposes. 
Will he indicate the reason for the use of this rather long questionnaire. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give consideration to extending the benefits of the War Service Homes Act to British ex-servicemen who took their discharge in Australia. 
Before asking a question of the Prime Minister, may I draw the attention of the House to the fact that it is 2 years today since Warsaw Pact countries invaded Czechoslovakia? 
I should also like to raise one point in reply to the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes).  Whilst I accept his proposition that he is not responsible for or even able to interfere with the workings of the court or give any instruction to the Chief Justice about the order in which certain cases should be heard, I think it is worth while for the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  to raise this question in the House because it surely makes clear even to honourable members on the other side of the House that we are appointing to the High Court of this country people who are more interested in the question of property than in the question of civil liberties. 
No Member may use offensive words against . . . any Member of the Judiciary .. . 
The honourable member shall not reflect upon the judiciary in any form and I would ask him to withdraw his remark. 

 - Mr Speaker, I certainly did not suggest there was any improper motive. I think both the protection of property and the protection of civil liberties- 
In my submission I am putting forward the proposition that both the protection of property rights and the protection of civil liberties are functions of the courts of this country. 1 would say that it is obvious that some members of the legal profession, whether they be lawyers or judges, give a different amount of emphasis to those 2 propositions. I am suggesting that when the next opening appears on the High Court the Government - and I assume that the AttorneyGeneral would be one of the people who would have a significant say in any recommendations as to who would be added to the High Court - should consider the proposition that we want at least some people on the High Court who put the question of civil liberties foremost. This is the proposition I am putting. I think to that extent the Government is certainly at fault. 
It being 12 o'clock midnight, the House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. this day. 
House adjourned at 12 midnight 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Did he in answer lo a question on 19th August 1970 suggest that in the cases of alleged possession of drugs the bail fixed was too low. 
If so, was he suggesting that the setting of bail should be a punishment. 
Can he say how many persons charged with possession of drugs have failed to appear in court. 
For the last week or so law and order has been in the news, or at least in the news handouts from the Government's Press officers. Liberal-Country Party politicians and officials whether in New South Wales, Canberra or the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, have realised that their policies on such issues as development, welfare, education, financing of health services, rural problems, defence and foreign affairs are obviously not supported by the electorate. A vast credibility gap has developed following this Government's assurances that the Fill is a super battle bird, the greatest things with wings since angels' and that it is the 'Cadillac of the air'. The Government has said that our hospital system 'is the best in the world'. Also, it has said that the Vietnam war was won in 1967; that the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that his main concern was improved social welfare was satisfied by an increase of 50c in pensions; and that the means test for non-contributory pensions was essential and fair, except in the case of $7,500 pensions for those who had rendered special services to the Government. 
The credibility gap has become so large that only Liberal Party publications such as the Sydney 'Telegraph' and the Adelaide Advertiser' now feel wholly committed to the Government. Neither Askin nor Gorton can call an election at a time when the campaign would coincide with any of Gretel's races. The Liberal and Country Parties have now decided that to scare people is the easiest way of retaining power. 
 In the absence overseas of the Minister for External Affairs I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that I am not trying to score a political point and I hope that the Prime Minister will reply similarly. Is the Prime Minister aware that at least some of the countries opposed to Australia's involvement in Vietnam tend to portray the war as one between Asian nationalists and white imperialists? Will he so inform the Minister for Immigration in connection with his refusal to grant a visa to  Mr Gregory?  Does the Prime Minister agree that that refusal is likely to upset many of Australia's friends in the United States of America and delegates to the conference of Afro-Asian neutralists? Does he agree that one of the essential features of Australia's foreign policy must be not to be identified in the United States, Africa and Asia with what I would call the South African position? 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the alarm expressed by CSIRO scientists, engineers, experimental officers and scientific service officers about their salar)' situation. 
Does the Commonwealth Government support the proposition that there should be a close relationship between research scientists' salaries and academic salaries. 
If so, will the Government intervene accordingly in the present appeal before the Arbitration Commission. 
I would like to take only a couple of moments to raise 3 anomalies in the new health scheme. The reason I am doing this on the adjournment rather than at question time is that it would be a little too involved and would mean giving information which I realise,  Mr Speaker,  you do not like us to do at question time. The first matter deals with the fact that a number of refunds have decreased under the new scheme. The first item I mention is one which tends to recur in the treatment of patients who are on anti-coagulant therapy - in other words, patients who may have bad a thrombosis or a coronary occlusion. These patients would be on anticoagulant therapy for some considerable time. They would be on the kind of anticoagulant that would make it necessary for them to be checked regularly by a pathology test called pro-thrombin estimation. The refund is now $3.50; the previous refund was $4.50. The most common fee is $5, so we have a difference now of $1.50. Most of these patients are elderly and are receiving superannuation and so on. They would have these tests done once a week or sometimes even more often and this is a significant item. I feel that some attempt should be made to improve the refund when the Government reviews the National Health Act. In addition, in New South Wales outpatients were previously charged a reduced rate of the order of $3 and received 90 per cent of that back. This meant a net cost to them of 30c. They are now charged the full rate and they are told that since this excellent new scheme was introduced by the Government there is no reason why they should not be charged the full rate of $5, even though they are outpatients. 
The second matter I would like to raise is the refund for an unreferred visit to a specialist. The refund is now $2.20; previously it was $2.60. The anomaly is not only that there is a reduction of the refund but that the refund for attending a general practitioner, obviously without any referral, is $2.70. Yet when one sees a specialist unreferred one receives a refund of only $2.20. If the patient could pretend that the doctor he saw was not a specialist but a general practitioner he would get more back. This is a ridiculous approach and I feel that at the very least an unreferred attendance to a specialist should attract the same refund as an attendance, again unreferred, to a general practitioner, namely $2.70. 
Finally, under the new system of classifying specialists a narrower view has been taken of specialists who were previously considered to be physicians. Under the scheme a refund is paid for a professional attendance by a specialist in the practice of his specialty, which is fair enough. A patient could attend a specialist physician, a person who has a high degree - he could be a member of the Royal Australian  Col lege  of Physicians - and no matter for what medical condition he attended the patient would receive the refund at the specialist rate. A number of these specialist physicians have now been further classified on a narrower basis. They may, for instance, be classified as rheumatologists. A rheumatologist is still a specialist physician but when he sees a patient for, for example, a chest condition, that patient is not entitled to the specialist refund. This makes a very great difference in the patient's refund. If a patient sees a consulting physician there is a refund of $17 for the first consultation and for second and subsequent consultations there is a refund of $7. The refund now is only $2.70. This seems a fantastic sort of approach. It causes quite a lot of hardship to people who are suffering from chronic conditions and have to attend a specialist physician on numerous occasions. The specialist who has now been reclassified, for example, as a rheumatologist, is perfectly qualified to treat them for their cardiac condition in a specialist capacity. I would urge the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  when these matters come to his notice to ask his Department to reconsider the proposition that certain doctors are classified in a very narrow specialty. 
asked the Minister for 
External Affairs, upon notice: 
Why has Australia not ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 16th December 1966. 
Which parts of the Covenant are unacceptable to the Australian Government 
I direct a question to  the Prime Minister.  Sir Frank  Packer's boat Gretel II' having been deprived of victory because of a breach of the rules, will the Prime Minister express this Government's sympathy to  Sir Frank  and assure him that Liberal governments throughout Australia will continue to allow him and bis companies to change the rule or suggest new ones? 
At the outset I would like to congratulate the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  on the way they finally - I emphasise 'finally' - dealt with the Brian Ross case. I felt strongly about it and I think many other honourable member's on this side and, I hope, on the other side of the House also felt strongly about it. I am certainly pleased that he ignored what I would call the barbarian type of attitude presented the other day at question time by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  In speaking to the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department I would like to express my pleasure at hearing that the salary of  Mr Clarrie  Hermes is still being paid by the Attorney- 
General'sDepartmentandnotbythePar- liament. 
In an address to the Sixth National Conference of the Australian Council of Social Services on 27th May of this year the Attorney-General discussed the establishment of a national institute of criminology and a criminology research council. I note, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  noted the other day, that the Budget still provides no money for this  purpose because the New South Wales Government, which also claims to be very interested in law and order, apparently will not co-operate. More importantly, to my mind, in the same address the AttorneyGeneral showed that he had read 'An Honest Politician's Guide to Crime Control', a book by Professor Morris and  Mr Gordon  Hawkins. By the way, I would like to draw to the attention of the AttorneyGeneral to what I hope was a verbal slip. He referred to the book as 'An Honest Politician's Guide to Crime'. I hope that when he is drafting amendments to the criminal code for the Australian Capital Territory - a code which is to act as a model for the States - he will be in one of his honest politician phases rather than at the law and order stage. Morris and Hawkins propose that certain crimes without victims should be removed from the criminal code. They suggest that this would help by making more law enforcement available to prevent crimes against the person and property and by not interfering in what are really questions of private morality. I do not necessarily agree with all their propositions. As a matter of fact, since I made my own maiden speech earlier this year in which I mentioned termination of pregnancy as a crime without a victim I have had lengthy discussions on and have thought about this subject. I now feel that whilst on balance I would personally support liberalisation of abortion laws I see that it can well be argued that we are here dealing with a possible victim needing protection. 
In the lecture to which 1 have referred, the Attorney-General discussed the question: What deviant behaviour ought to be or ought to continue to be characterised as criminal and deterred by the sanctions of the criminal law? He went on to say, and I quote him approvingly: 
In making the decision to which I have just referred, government should not overlook the Important consideration that, generally speaking, it may be unwise to bring, or to keep, within the reach of the criminal law, activities mat in their nature are difficult, sometimes practically impossible to detect, where there is involved no risk of physical or moral injury or proprietary loss to others who have no claim to protection of the law. 
He then gave an example. He said: 
It is one thing to disapprove on moral grounds of homosexual connection in a private place between consenting adults. It is another thing to permit such disapproval to drive one to the conclusion that conduct of that description should be classified as criminal. In  a  pluralist society it is no part of the function of the criminal law to uphold and preserve the Judaeo-Christian ethic simply because that ethic exists. Any attempt to make the criminal law perform such a task would reflect a confusion between the respective places of law and morality in such a society . . . These are not necessary parts of the law's task: Certain categories of misconduct ought to be a matter between man and his Maker rather than a matter of criminal consequence between man and his temporal law maker. 
Further on he said: 
The community at large has an undoubted interest, justifying the imposition of punishment, in seeing that juveniles are protected from the corrupting depredations of adult pederasts, lt is highly questionable, however, whether it has an interest of such strength as to warrant the infliction of criminal punishment in discouraging adults from private indulgence in sodomy or other forms of conduct commonly described as unnatural. This is one of the many problems that demand my attention in the course of my endeavours to achieve final formulation of  a  criminal code for Commonwealth Territories. It is not an easy task. I do not claim to have made up my mind upon the answer or even to have looked sufficiently long at all the aspects of the problem. But at least  1  can express the present trend of my thoughts. 
Incidentally I was somewhat sorry to see that the Attorney-General seems to be having second thoughts on this question now. This has been an extensive quote from the Attorney-General, but 1 think he was worth quoting. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that social questions should be treated on a non-party basis. I hope that sooner or later all parties will agree to this. In brief my own attitude to the function of the law in regard to homosexual behaviour is the same as in regard to heterosexual behaviour. Apart from providing protection for the young and immature and protection against affronts to public order and decency, the criminal law should not trespass in this area. As Morris and Hawkins put it in their book: 
If all the law enforcement agents involved in ineffectual efforts to control buggery were to be diverted to an attempt to improve the current very low percentage clearance rate for burglary it is unlikely that there would  be  an immediate fall in the burglary rate. But it is utterly unlikely that there would be an increase in buggery; for people's sexual behaviour is among the least changeable of their responses, as the almost total failure of cures and treatment programmes for homosexuals should have taught us. And in the long run such a redeployment of resources could not but be beneficial to society. 
I was certainly pleased to read the AttorneyGeneral's lecture because it showed that there is at least some difference between him and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  The latter certainly illustrated, when speaking on the adjournment debate on 2nd September, the politician who relies heavily on the criminal law and likes to invoke criminal sanctions in connection with most social problems if only to indicate his moral fervour and political virtue. Politicians like him take little interest in the consequences of the invocation. Moreover, support for the removal of a sanction is often interpreted as support for the behaviour previously punished: If a person votes for the legislation of consensual adult homosexual conduct he must be homosexual. Likewise the public often cherishes criminal sanctions as an expression of their virtuous inclinations as distinct from the rather squalid realities of their lives. 
It is necessary, however, if we are to be serious about the crime problem, to clear the ground of action of the criminal law. This is essential to the police, to the courts, and to the correctional agencies. They must deal only with those problems and those people for whom their services and their capacities are appropriate, not those who are merely being sacrificed to prejudice the taboos. Public sacrifice - throwing virgins off the rocks or homosexuals into gaol - to placate the ancient gods is not the job of the criminal justice system. I am broadly in agreement with John Stuart Mill's definition of the proper sphere of the criminal law in his essay 'On Liberty' when he wrote: 
The principle is that the sole end for which mankind are warranted, individually or collectively, in interfering with the liberty of action of any of their members is self-protection: That the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community against his will is to prevent harm to others. His own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient warrant; he cannot rightfully be compelled to do or forbear because it would be better for him to do so, because it will make him happier, because, in the opinion of others, to do so would be wise or even right. 
The function, as I see it, of the criminal law is to protect the citizen's person and property, and to prevent the exploitation or corruption of the young and others in need of special care or protection. I consider it improper and usually socially harmful for the law to intervene in or attempt to regulate the private moral conduct of the citizen. We have a highly moralistic criminal law and a long tradition of using it as an instrument for coercing men towards virtue. It is a singularly inept instrument for that purpose. It is also an unduly costly one, both in terms of harm done and in terms of the neglect of the proper tasks of law enforcement. 
Another area where I feel that the law should be completely changed is in the concepts of vagrancy and disorderly behaviour. The concept of vagrancy should be scrapped completely. It was originally introduced in 16th century England and could possibly be justified then in dealing with so-called vagabonds. There has always been a strong element of class bias about vagrancy law and now it is often used on long haired youths who do not play football. In other words, it is used to enforce conformity. The commentary on the American Law Institute's Model Penal Code states: 
If disorderly conduct statutes are troublesome because they require so little in the way of misbehaviour, the vagrancy statutes offer the astounding spectacle of criminality with no misbehaviour at all. 

 Mr Ken Buckley of the New South Wales Council for Civil Liberties in his new book Offensive and Obscene', dealing with some Council for Civil Liberties cases, defines vagrancy as: 'Doing something the police don't like when you haven't got a job'. It defines offensive behaviour as: 'Doing something the police don't like when you have got a job'. 
One of the so-called crimes which should be looked at is the crime of bigamy. Bigamy has been described as the triumph of hope over experience. It is the contracting of a second marriage during the existence of a prior marriage and is a statutory crime. It does not constitute a serious part of the crime problem. 1 mention it only as an interesting example of the legal stigmatisation and punishment of conduct which may - as when both parties are aware of the previous marriage, which is the general situation - harm no-one although it offends some religious and moral codes. The bigamous marriage itself is legally a nullity. In many cases the only anti-social consequences of bigamy are the falsification of State records and the waste of time of the celebrating officer. This problem would be better handled by penalties for false declarations in relation to ceremonies of marriage. Sanctions are to be found in all criminal codes for giving false information in relation to official processes, and deceiving the woman would be an aggravating circumstance relevant to sentencing. Commonly all that is involved in bigamy is, as Glanville Williams put it, a pathetic attempt to give a veneer of respectability to what is in law an adulterous association'. One Australian judge, impressed with this analysis, when sentencing a convicted bigamist, allegedly said: 
Wretched roan! Not only have you and thu young woman deceived your friends. Worse, you have thrown Her Majesty's records into confusion. 
Another area where governments should tread very warily, if at all, is the question of censorship, pornography and obscenity. lt is still confidently asserted in some quarters that exposure to erotica and pornography leads to sex crimes. But a United States study of 15,000 sex offenders found no evidence that pornography was a causal factor in the offences. Indeed, its findings suggest that it may rather be inability to secure fantasy-release of impulse by means of pornography which distinguishes sex offenders from other people. If prurience can find satisfaction by reading books or looking at pictures; it is difficult to conceive anything less harmful to society. It is those who cannot achieve satisfaction in this way who may constitute a danger. If controls are felt to be necessary in this area, I think that they should be limited to providing protection for the immature and preventing affronts to public decency. 
Finally, coming back to the original proposition, I would argue strongly that we must establish some type of standing criminal law revision committee charged with the task of consideration of the fitness and adequacy of the criminal law sanctions to social needs. I would argue that our present criminal law is a product of a series of historical accidents, emotional over reactions, and the comforting political habit of adding a punishment to every legislative proposition. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Which members of the present Ministry in the House of Representatives completed Form G under section 151 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act following the Federal elections held in October 1969. 
Did the (a) Liberal Party of Australia or (b) Australian Country Party federally or in any of the States supply a declaration under section 152 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act following the Federal elections held in October 1969. 
I should like to address myself to the appropriations for the Department of Customs and Excise and specifically to the question of drugs and especially drug education. Recently the Commonwealth Government allocated $500,000 for drug education for the current year to be used on projects recommended by the Drug Education Committee of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. Basically the policy of the Government, as  far as I can see, and of most governments is two-fold. On the one hand they talk about drug education, and I should like to deal with that principally in the quarter of an hour at my disposal. Secondly, they try to use police methods, in effect, to suppress the use of drugs. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  addressed a training seminar on drugs. The seminar was held on 7th September. To my mind he showed quite clearly that notwithstanding all the discussion on drugs he still does not understand what it is all about. During the course of his address he said: 
Not many years ago the worst drug evil we had in Australia was a bit of opium smoking and a few opium dens in the back streets of our big cities, and this was a problem of quite manageable proportions. 
If a person in the position of the Prime Minister in 1970 does not realise that the main drug problem in this country is connected with such drugs as alcohol, the tranquillisers and sedatives and that the drug problems we normally read about and which are sensationalised in the newspapers are only a periphery problem, he certainly needs a lot of drug education. 
I recently came across a paper by Professor Halleck who is Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin in the United States of America. He is director of its student psychiatric services. He has been resident psychiatrist at the Menninger Foundation and staff psychiatrist at the United States Medical Centre for Federal Prisoners. He is the author of 'Psychiatry and the Dilemmas of Crime'. I should like to paraphrase to some extent and condense what he said, because I was impressed by some of his points. Whilst I realise that it is difficult to say whether he is right or wrong, I hope that at some stage the people who are spending the $500,000 on behalf of the Commonwealth Government on drug education will consider his warn- 
It is now obvious to even the staunchest 'law and order' advocate that our law enforcement agencies cannot control the use of illegal drugs. Neither harsh penalties, vigorous police surveillance, nor determined efforts to diminish the flow of drugs into the country have prevented millions of young people from experimenting with pharmaceutical agents alleged to be dangerous. In the light of this inability to control drug usage through legal sanctions, it has become fashionable to turn to 'education' as the best method of persuading youth to abstain. 
The American people have great faith in education. They have set out to educate our young people about drug abuse with a vengeance. Lectures on drugs have become almost a fixture of the high school and college curriculum. 
Special committees are appointed to promote education, such as the one we set up recently. He continued: 
Such committees usually set up lectures or forums at which young people and their parents can hear experts discuss the effects and relative dangers. Despite all this enthusiasm, there is still no way of evaluating whether educating young people about drugs has any effect whatsoever in diminishing drug usage. 
In view of our uncertainty as to the effectiveness of drug education, it would be prudent to consider 2 disconcerting possibilities. First, that drug education may not discourage youth from experimenting with illegal drugs. Under certain circumstances, as indicated later, education may even encourage drug usage. Second, that drug education programmes - 
And I think this is important -  may be expensive and ineffective distractions which diminish our motivations to examine basic moral and political questions which may be the very root of the drug problem. The most prevalent but least effective theme in the drug education programme is to 'scare the hell out of them'. 
I have personally participated in meetings like this and I can see no point in them. Professor Halleck continues: 
Too often the programme consists of one or more meetings at which a local physician, a law enforcement officer, and perhaps a former addict will endlessly catalogue the horrible outcome of drug usage. The physician will exaggerate the degree to which drugs can produce bodily damage. The law enforcement officer will gravely talk about the increasing flow of drugs into the community and will throw in a few anecdotes about young people he has seen ruined by drugs. Sometimes he will even bring in displays of confiscated drugs to show to his presumably horrified audience. 
The former drug addict will give his story and the whole thing becomes an interesting show which has much of the flavour of an old-fashioned revival meeting. The Professor continues: 
Unfortunately such a biased approach to the  drugproblemisunlikelytohaveapositive  influence upon young people. 
In the United States it is estimated that a fairly high proportion of high school and university students in the audience have already experimented with marihuana. This is probably the situation in Australia. I have no figures and I do not suppose anybody else has any reliable figures but probably between 10 per cent and 25 per cent of all students around about the age of 18 or 20 years would at some stage have experimented with marihuana. Many have found this experience a pleasant one. And I am not supporting the use of marihuana or any other drugs. Few marihuana users believe that they have been harmed. by using the drug. Professor Halleck says: 
When these young people- hear speakers describe marihuana as a narcotic which belongs in the same class as harder drugs they are understandably sceptical of the speaker's reliability. Since the young person's own experience leads him to believe that the  speaker  is exaggerating the dangers of marihuana, he wonders if the  speaker  is not exaggerating the dangers of other drugs as well. 
Finally, young people do a 'great deal of reading about drugs. 
From his own experience Professor Hal.leck says: 
In working with student groups I am regularly impressed with their knowledge of both the scientific and popular drug literature. Unfortunately, many of the doctors and police officers who participate in the 'scare the hell out of them' programmes have had neither the motivation nor the time to familiarise themselves with the literature. 
Usually, when given a chance to ask questions, the young people in the audience find it easy to embarrass a  speaker  by quoting studies which contradict the speaker's claims. Nor is it difficult for them to expose the moralistic rather than the factual basis of a speaker's admonitions. 
As one listens to such talks, he finds it hard to keep from wondering why 16 or 17-year-olds should be so fascinated with pharmacology or psychiatry. It is, after all, hardly essential that teenagers have vast knowledge of the physical and psychological effects of these illegal drugs. 
He says that such knowledge is not likely to help them make what, in the end, should be a moral decision on whether they will ingest, inhale or inject an illegal substance into their bodies. He continues: 
As the young person listens to factual material about drugs he comes to appreciate that some are not nearly so dangerous as people generally believe them to be. 
The risk arises that if a person tries to be fairly objective in talking about such drugs as marihuana he may, in fact, be encouraging people to try them. This is one of the great dangers of the drug education system. On the one hand if a person exaggerates the proposition he may be antagonising the kids. If he is putting an objective Une he is probably encouraging them. Professor Halleck continues: 
It is conceivable that the plethora of publicity about drug usage and the abundance of educational meetings held simply neutralise the negative feelings with which adults view some drugs and arouse the curiosity of youth who are prone to experiment and take risks anyway. 
Professor Halleck goes on to say that there is a place for drug education but that it should be concentrated on the adults.  He  says that the average American parents and possibly other people in the community, such as physicians, school counsellors, teachers and ministers, should  be  given as much correct information about drugs  as  possible. He continues: 
Educational programmes might be helpful to young and old alike if they focussed on broader social and ethical issues. It would be useful to begin by acknowledging that the abuse of legal drugs, including those prescribed by physicians, is probably a greater problem for our society than abuse of illegal drugs. Prescription drugs such as amphetamines, barbiturate, or tranquilisers are massively over-used in our society. 
It must be noted that these drugs do not alleviate specific disease and have little medical purpose other than helping people tolerate the stress of everyday life. Yet, they are prescribed mort frequently than any other class of drugs and create more problems of habituation and overdosage than any illegal drug. Abuse of alcohol still creates more mental and physical suffering among our citizens than abuse of other legal drugs. 
If the drug problem is viewed from a broad perspective,  a  crucial ethical question for our society is: Which drugs, legal or illegal, are worth using? Which drugs, if any, make life better? Most drugs provide the user with  a  pleasant experience for the moment Convelvably, there may also be drugs which could expand human awareness and provide people with new insights. 
Whether one uses tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, amphetamines, or heroin, be is searching for something, occasionally for greater awareness but usually for stimulation or relaxation, for a temporary respite from the tedium or stresses of everyday life. If we agree that man is entitled to a certain degree of artificial stimulation or relaxation, it is Important to know which drugs do this most effectively and with the greatest safety. 
Later on, be makes the point: 
Society's task ls to consider (he physical, psychological and social dangers of each drug and to make moral decisions as to whether the pleasures produced by that drug are worth risking its hazards. Similar questions are relevant to the use of other drugs such as tobacco, LSD, barbiturates, or the amphetamines. 
The search for answers to these basic questions could provide  a  more rational basis for future legislation than the puritanical or evangelistic approaches prevalent now. 
Young people as well as their parents could benefit from  a  careful consideration of the morality of searching for artificial stimulation or tranquility. 
One of the points that arises is that young intelligent people who should be involved  in trying to improve this world finish up on drugs and 'copping out'. He states further: 
Young people can appreciate that in a world in which there are so many forces to be dealt with, in which there are so many things that need doing and changing, and in which the joys of creativity still represent one of the most profound of human experiences, excessive search for artificial euphoria might be socially dangerous. Certainly such an approach cannot provide any young person with  a  clear yes-or-no answer on whether he should experiment with  a  particular drug. 
I think that it may help him to consider these propositions. 
 Professor Halleck goes on to state: 
Perhaps the best explanation for the growing use of drugs in this country-- 
He is talking about the United States of America -  is that we are an unhappy society. It makes little difference whether one is talking about young people who use illegal drugs or older people who use legal drugs. In our frustration, our anxiety, our fear, our boredom, and our purposelessness, we all use too many drugs. Our affluence and leisure do not bring us happiness. 
Our failure to deal with urgent problems such as the rapid rate of technological change, overpopulation, pollution, or the war in Vietnam leaves us feeling frustrated and impotent. The younger generation seems especially desperate. Many young people fear the future, distrust the past and are relentlessly trying to live in the moment. 
It is my belief that the drug problem is only  a  symptom of a sickness that pervades our entire society. Drug, education can be thought of as  a  treatment that is designed to treat the symptom without doing anything about the causes of the illness. 
Whether it is an effective treatment is far from proven. But even more distressing, by relying upon education as  a  symptomatic treatment, we are lured away from the real problems which are causing the symptom. Drug education programmes can be helpful. But unless supported by  a  firm commitment to examine and deal with the more basic causes of human despair, they are nothing but  a  'cop-out. 
I strongly recommend that before the Drug Education Committee starts spending money on the usual sort of drug education programmes it should invite before it some of the critics of the drug education programme or read contributions by these people, especially from the United States of America and the United Kingdom, study these matters and determine whether some alternative is available as a way of trying to decrease the number of people in this community who attempt and find it necessary to use drugs whether legal or illegal. 
I present the following petition - 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in  books,magazines,plays,filmsandtelevisionand  radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs. 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views. 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay* unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought. 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
I move: 
That the petition be received and read loudly. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army upon notice: 
Can steps be taken  to  enable agricultural science graduates selected for national service  to  be given the opportunity to use their particular acquired skills while serving in the Army as  is  done  in  the case of graduates  in  dentistry  and  medicine. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration,  upon  notice: 
In what ways are immigrants disadvantaged under law in Australia either before or after naturalisation. 
Will he take appropriatesteps to raise the matter with the State Attorneys-General in order to remove any such disadvantages especially in the case of naturalised citizens. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the Acting Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr N.  Shelton, on 8 July 1970, that New Zealand had been trying for many years to have the principle accepted in its relations with Australia of no discrimination between natural born and naturalised persons. 
If so, why does the Australian Government continue to insist on this discrimination. 
asked this Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Does his Department employ any social workers who speak Finnish; if so, how many. 
If the number employed has proved insufficient, will he arrange, as a matter of urgency, for the number employed to be. increased. 
asked the Minister for 
Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the Financial Review of 1st September - 1970 in which if is stated that the abolition of the honorary system' in Australian hospitals is estimated to cost $20-$30m. 
If so, will he obtain from' each of the States estimates of what would be the costs of paying medical officers on (a) a sessional basis and (b) a fee for service basis. 
I should like to speak for just 5 minutes and to raise a problem arising out of the testing of a relatively new drug. I will have to give some technical details to make the point, but basically this is a human problem, as will appear later. Very briefly, the substance concerned is Laevo-dopa, which is the metabolic precursor of dopamine, a transmitter substance present in the basal ganglia of the brain. In a disease called Parkinsonism the concentration of dopamine in these areas of the brain is diminished. This forms the basis for the effectiveness of L-dopa as replacement medication in the treatment of symptoms of Parkinson's syndrome, particuarly rigidity and immobility, not so much of tremor. If honourable members have seen people with Parkinsonism they are probably aware of the symptoms. Treatment with L-dopa, being replacement therapy, is essentially long term. In other words a person must keep on with the substance. Once he goes off the substance the original symptoms reappear. 
There are many potential side effects. In overseas trials improvement occurred in approximately two-thirds of the patients. This has varied from slight to spectacular but a leading article in the 'British Medical Journal' of February of this year states: 
Initial improvements may be entirely subjective - increased vigour and well-being, greater clarity of thought and memory, and a general feeling of increased mobility. Soon unequivocal and sustained evidence of benefit may become apparent 
I emphasise the word 'may' so as not to give anybody the idea that this works in every case. The article continues: 
A long immobile fades may become animated, a sparkle returns to the eye, and the gait, posture, dexterity of the hands, speech, and balance may all improve. Particularly convincing is a renewed ability to perform movements which have been lost for several years such as rising from a chair or a lavatory seat and turning over in bed. This renaissance may extend to tasks such as shaving, typing, knitting, playing the piano, and even completing the football pools. Art early physical sign of response is that silent dentures, hitherto fitted snugly in an immobile face, rattled freely. In exceptional cases patients confined to bed and wheel chair have walked independently. 
This drug has not yet been released for general marketing in Australia and its supply is limited to clinical trials. Three companies are importing the drug into Australia. I come now to the reason for raising this question tonight. I understand that applications have been made to place this drug on the list of pharmaceutical benefits. In the first instance, at least, its use would probably be restricted to specialists and hospitals. These seem reasonable restrictions and reasonable delays, looking at it from the point of view of the Government and especially the Department of Health but - and I emphasise the but - what happens? A patient who has been treated ineffectively with the usual drugs for years is admitted to clinical trials where the drug is supplied free and he improves. Twothirds of the cases improve dramatically. They are then told: 'We have finished our trial. If you want to continue the treatment you must buy the drug yourself.' But to do so would cost between $7 and $10 a week, depending on the source of the supply and the amount of the drug which is used in each case. Having to pay $7 to $10 a week would place a tremendous burden on many elderly people, many of whom are pensioners. Even if they are not pensioners it is a large amount of money for them to have to pay out. 
I appeal to the companies concerned, the clinics taking part in the trials, that is, the large public hospitals, and the Department of Health to co-operate in order te enable patients who have been helped te obtain the drug free until it is formally added to the list of drugs available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. To my mind it is bad enough to have a degenerative disease such as Parkinsonism, but when the condition of a patient who has been helped worsens because finance is lacking, it is much worse. I am sure that only a small amount of money would bt involved at this stage, although in the long run it is hoped that the 10,000 .sufferers of this disease in Australia may be helped. I ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  to take the appropriate steps to make it possible for the companies and clinical units which are taking part in this work to continue treating with the drug, until such time as the Government makes a final decision on whether it will admit it to the free list, those people who, for financial reasons would be unable to continue to finance their own treatment. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. (e&gt; That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps  to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of his claim that police photographs at demonstrations are only taken to help . in court proceedings, will he give an assurance that all photographs and negatives will be destroyed immediately if no court proceedings eventuate or, alternatively, at the conclusion of any proceedings. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1.970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Slates for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Yesterday in reply to a question the Prime Minister suggested that intranational - that means inside a nation, and I say this because some honourable members complain that they cannot bear what I am saying - tensions are caused by colour differences and he gave the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Malaysia as examples. Can he tell me, first, who are the coloureds who are causing severe tensions in such white countries as Canada, Northern Ireland and Belgium? Secondly, if he agrees that different religious beliefs and languages can cause similar tensions, does he suggest that only English-speaking migrants imbued with the ecumenical spirit be admitted into Australia? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many crown leases are held by Vesteys, 
What is the total area of these leases. 
What is the annual rental. 
When do the leases expire. 
Is a charge made for granting a lease. 
Is a lease automatically renewed if renewal is applied for. 
What is the term of a renewal. 
Are present holders of a lease at an advantage when applying for a renewal, as compared with other applicants. 
What factors are taken into account when considering application for a lease. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon  notice: 
Did he, in answer to my question No. 947 (Hansard, 3rd June 1970, page 2905) advise that an applicant before a Commonwealth Public Service Promotions Appeal Committee is not entitled to an advocate. 
Will he cite and quote the provision.-, of the Public Service Act or regulations relating to this matter. 
If there are no relevant provisions in the Act or regulations, is not the question of the entitlement of an appellant to an advocate entirely a matter for the Promotions Appeal Committee to determine as it think fit in the light of circumstances. 
Has the Public Service Board instructed or advised Promotions Appeal Committees that they should not permit appellants to be represented by an advocate. 
If so, and if the matter is really one for the appropriate Appeal Committee to determine, is the action of the Board in breach of the Act or regulations. 
 Mr Speaker,  am I entitled to move an amendment to this motion? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the under signed citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and. inadequate teaching aids. te) That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What arrangements are made with the States to ensure that prisoners serving sentences or awaiting trial, but eligible to vote, are provided wilh facilities to exercise their vote at federal elections. 
How many prisoners eligible to vote were in Australian gaols on 25th October 1969. 
How many of these prisoners voted. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned- 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled" will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films', literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the. face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth. 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum  of  one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I should like to take this opportunity, when we are discussing changes in the potential control of the Canberra College of Advanced Education, to raise some points of political philosophy which seem terribly self-evident and obvious to me but which are hardly ever raised and rarely discussed either here, in the general journal and media which concentrate on the sensational aspects of our universities and on the sort of things that are happening in our universities and tertiary institutions. Most of us would agree that there is too much paternalism in many institutions in this community. This applies to schools and tertiary institutions. The aim surely must be to have a condition as close as possible to participatory democracy in these institutions as in all other institutions in the community. Therefore we should have a maximum of staff-student representation from all areas involved at the University. 
Although this need not necessarily be accepted by everybody, the aims should be to foster what I call the spirit of critical inquiry at these institutions. It is generally suggested that we are dealing with a student body which consists of radicals or where a significant proportion of the students are radicals. They are right wing radicals or left wing radicals, whatever position one ascribes to the different groups. There are fights and arguments between the supporters of what are regarded as left wing radicals, and who are described as Maoists, and right wing radicals, who are- described as followers of Santamaria. This certainly applies in the sort of arguments that are going on in many of our universities. 
I do not accept the proposition that these people are progressive or are, in fact, radical progressives. All these groups are really quite reactionary. In trying to obtain the maximum amount of freedom in these institutions they behave in quite a reactionary fashion. The small 1 liberals - and I should like to include myself among those, and I emphasise the small 1 - and there are many of us in this House, in the political community, and involved at tertiary institutions in this country, argue that they are not, as is continuously suggested, between the left and the right. They are the really radical extremists in the community. They believe that there should be a maximum amount of freedom in the community. They believe that people should not be controlled. They try to avoid paternalism and force. They try to encourage reasonable discussion instead of mass meetings with shows of hands and so forth. By taking that sort of line we are much closer to taking a radical position than either of those other 2 groups. This point must be made continuously. 
One of the aspects to which I object very strongly is that people who regard themselves as left radicals or right radicals look down on us and allege that we cannot make up our mind between their two positions. This is just not true. We have made up our minds on the positions. We have made up our minds that both those positions are completely wrong - that those 2 positions are really close together and that our position is the position that should be aimed for in society and in all sub-groups of society. I think this is an extremely difficult position to bring about in a tertiary institution, such as a university, because of the fragility of democracy. What does one do when the other groups in that organisation will not play ball according to one's terms? What does one do when they occupy buildings and do things which, in the long run, involve the use of force, whether it be the real use of force or by stopping the processes for which the institution is established and for which the vast majority are prepared to vote? What does one do to remove them from that organisation? As far as I can see, Monash University has certainly had that problem in the past few months. The people who believe that the university should be able to come to a concensus and make some reasonable decision about the running of that university are opposed by a relatively small group of people who counteract that belief and play on the feelings of the small liberals who do not wish to use force and do not wish to exclude them from the educational process or punish them for what they have done, because we do not believe that that is the proper way to treat that situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask the honourable member for Prospect to relate his remarks more closely to the Bill. He is getting very wide of the subject matter of the Bill which relates to representation on the Council of the College of Advanced Education. 
As I understand it, the proposed changes to the legislation to alter the Council come about as a result of a request by students or other groups within the university to make the Council more democratic. It is when one goes into the details of how these Councils behave that one gets into that extremely difficult position. I have no solution to this. I am not suggesting I have ever seen anybody who has a complete solution to it. But at the same time one of the ways that those of us who do believe in the maximum amount of freedom inside institutions should behave is continuously to deny the proposition that we are somewhere between the right and left wings and to make it quite clear that the right and left wings  are together  and that we are in a radical position so far as those other groups are concerned. We are dealing with a university community which, in theory at leastI would hope, should be run as an almost anarchist type of society. If there is any sort of institution in the community in which it should be possible to have the minimum number of rules in relation to controls and quality of starters, then the universities and colleges of advanced education should be those sorts of institutions. I hope the adding of undergraduate representation to this Council will ease any tensions that may be developing at the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I hope that people who are generally concerned with the running of tertiary institutions in this country will try to come up with a policy to sell the position which I have outlined to as many of the students as possible. 
I should like to mention only 2 quick points. During the remarks of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  it was obvious that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  was stung by the attacks on the preference which is given to students from private schools in receiving scholarships and subsidies for university education. These are given to students- 
 To children coming from privileged homes, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide points out. It may be of interest to honourable members to know that last year, when 1 was in medical practice in the Parramatta district, I received an invitation to an afternoon tea reception at Kings School. The function was organised by the Parramatta Federal Electorate Council of the Liberal Party, ft was, 1 understand, a fund-raising function at which, for  $5  to help the Minister for Education and Science, T was permitted to go to the school and meet the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and  Mrs Gorton  and have afternoon tea with them. It was interesting that this private school, a nonpolitical school, should be used for the purposes of raising money for the Liberal Party. It is not surprising that the Government replies in kind to such schools. When we applied to the same school to use its services for a political function, since the school was apparently available for such purposes, we received an unsatisfactory reply. The school did not seem to be keen to hold a function for the Australian Labor Party to raise funds for its candidate. 
I said that I wanted to raise 2 points. The first concerns the question of salaries. There has been a significant increase in the salaries of university lecturers and professors, and I am not criticising this, but when we talk about difficulties in education, problems in education and the crisis in education, it is interesting to note that in 1952 the salary of a subject master in the New South Wales Department of Education was approximately equal to that of a university lecturer whereas in 1970 the salary of the subject master is approximately only two-thirds of that of a university lecturer. In 1952 the salary of a headmaster in a secondary school in New South Wales was approximately 90 per cent of that of a university professor, but now it has dropped to 61 per cent of the salary of a professor. It is quite obvious that there is a tendency for teachers in secondary schools, and more so, no doubt, for teachers in primary schools, to be treated as second rate teachers in respect of salaries and conditions. 
My second point concerns a reference in the Minister's second reading speech to the fact that the Bill includes funds lo certain university officers in medical schools. This raises again the question of the payment of honorary medical officers. Those honourable members who know the setup in medical schools attached to universities are probably aware that the teaching at these medical schools, inasmuch as it is clinical teaching, is carried out by the honorary medical officers of the hospitals attached to the universities. Until fairly recently it was accepted that only an honorarium was to be paid to those medical officers. Now the position has changed. A recent statement by the  President  of the Royal College of Physicians in Victoria shows that there are now only 27 per cent of physicians in completely private practice in that State. I am nol objecting to this. T think it is a trend which is inevitable and in the interests of the patients, but it is certainly a trend which must be considered by the Government in conjunction with the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  The whole question arises of bow to reimburse the clinical teachers of the medical students. The surgeons are probably able to look after themselves reasonably well because of the general bias in fees under the National Health Scheme towards surgeons; there is a return of most of the expenditure of the patients. As far as teaching physicians are concerned a relatively large amount of time  is  spent on teaching and they are unable to earn enough money in the time that is available for seeing patients. Therefore, the question of payments must be considered. 
I am pleased to see that the Government has decided to subsidise the universities to pay sessional fees to those medical teachers. 
I hope the State Governments, when they decide on a change in the method of honorary medical officers in hospitals other than teaching hospitals, will also adopt that system of sessional fees rather than the proposition put up by the Australian Medical Association in New South Wales for payment on the basis of fees for services which would give huge incomes to those medical officers in these hospitals who probably least deserve the extra income. 
asked the Attorney-Gen eral, upon notice.: 
Are foreign born Australian citizens disadvantaged under Australian law as compared with locally born citizens. 
Are there special additional punishments applicable to foreign born citizens under certain sections of the Crimes Act; if so, are they acceptable in the interests of justice. 
If not, will he take steps to introduce appropriate amendments to the Act. 
I second the motion, and in doing so I should like to make an additional point in passing. I congratulate the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  because as a result of the Minister taking action to amend the regulations, Brian Ross was released from gaol earlier this year. As the Minister is no doubt aware, some time in June I made representations to him to allow the question of Ross' conscientious objection to be decided by a court. The statutory rules were amended, by amendment No. 5, to allow the Minister himself to refer to the court the question of a person's conscientious objection. 1 was pleased when I heard on 10th August last that  Mr Justice  Smithers had been appointed to hear Ross' case and at a later date to hear that Ross had been released. 
I am one of those people who completely oppose the National Service Act. I object to conscription. I find it difficult to understand how conscription is justifiable at any time. But having said that, I realise that the Government has been elected and re-elected on the proposition that it supports conscription, that it supports national service, and I think that we in the Opposition have to make the National Service Act as pleasant as possible from the point of view of the people who are affected. Dealing with the specific regulation which we seek to disallow today, I should like to address myself to the point made by the Minister in the explanatory notes which accompanied the amendment to the regulation. It is pointed out that the regulations now cover men who have not been called up before 26 years of age, for example, because they may have been seeking to evade their obligations and to escape detection. I can see no good reason why the regulations should be altered to cover those people. 
I am not one of those people who have been urging the Government to prosecute those who have been defying the National Service Act. I am not one of those who have been attacking the Government for selective enforcement of the law. I think that there is very little for which the Government can be congratulated. But the fact that the Government does not put in gaol everybody who defies the National Service Act is certainly a step in the right direction. The Government puts too many people in gaol as it is, and I do not think that we should encourage the Government to put more people in gaol. But what I do object to is the fact that there are people who have evaded their obligation, as it is put, from the age of 20 years to 26 years. In many cases these people have sent letters to the Minister telling him that they do not accept the provisions of the National Service Act. The Minister has had 6 years in which to deal with those people. For good reasons - excellent reasons, I should hope - he has decided not to prosecute them. I think that it is wrong to allow another 4 years in which these people can be prosecuted. lt means that for another 4 years these people can be prosecuted at any time when it becomes politically convenient or when there is some other reason for prosecuting them. I think this is completely wrong. For 6 years the Government has been aware of the fact that certain persons have been avoiding their obligations and it has not taken any steps to prosecute them. Now the Government has decided to extend for another 4 years the period in which these people can be prosecuted. It will make it tougher for the people concerned; it will make it almost impossible for them to obtain certain jobs and so on. I think it is completely wrong for the Government to use the regulations in this way. Therefore, I very strongly support the motion to disallow this regulation. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether naturalised Australian citizens from (a) Yugoslavia and (b) Greece are liable for national service when visiting their country of origin. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that naturalised Australian citizens require a visa to enter New Zealand whilst British born Australians do not. 
Can he say whether this discrimination applies in any other country. 
Will the Government make representations to the New Zealand Government with a view to stopping this discrimination. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has he received a submission from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Unions regarding the Superannuation Board. 
If so, what is the nature of the submission. 
Is the rate of return on the Superannuation Fund only approximately equal to die loss if value of the investments due to inflation. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
How many applicants for service in the Citizen Military Forces have been rejected during each of the last 5 years. 
How many were rejected on medical grounds. 
What were the other grounds for rejection. 
Have any of the men rejected for CMF service been called-up for national service. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members' of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully sheweth: 
That they are not gravely concerned thatmoral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal mora) decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness id face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and thai, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned- 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is  so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. In view of the fact that the novel 'Portnoy's Complaint' by Phillip Roth is now legally sold in South Australia and Western Australia, as it is in most countries; that a New South Wales jury yesterday refused to declare it obscene; and in view of the fact that there has been no obvious increase in rape cases either amongst the thousands who have read the Australian edition or the Minister, his staff and parliamentarians who have read imported copies, will he remove this book from the list of prohibited imports? 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice: 
In the event of charge? being preferred against any person participating in any demonstration at which photographers under the control of the Commonwealth were present, will he direct that defendants be given copies of all photographs taken in order  to  assist in the preparation of their cases and to ensure that magistrates, judges and juries are given a complete picture of the events giving rise to the charges- 
I should like to make a number of points. Firstly I shall make some general points on the subject and, secondly, 1 shall deal with some of the questions that I would ask the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  arising out of the Bill and the comments he made during his second reading speech. In some ways 1 suppose that I am unique in that I am probably the only member in this House who arrived in this country young enough to go straight into school and I was unable to speak English at the time. I do not think that the general problems which now face many migrant children faced me and therefore I would not claim any special expertise on the basis of my own antecedents. The only point I make here is that for that reason I probably have more contact with the migrant groups in the area I represent and in the area of Sydney generally and 1 know most of the problems with which they are faced. 
I think that immigration too often is viewed on a statistical basis rather than on a human and sociological basis. Often the native borne Australian views it on a statistical basis and not from the migrants' point of view. I should like to raise that point of view on a few issues. 1 am sure that the proposition which I should like to put forward is not novel, but basically there are 4 causes of difficulty for migrant children: Firstly, the question of education in a foreign language; secondly, the question of education in an alien culture; thirdly, the low income of the parents in many cases; and, fourthly, the concentration of migrants in relatively depressed urban areas with their depressed schools. 
In passing I should like to make the point to the Minister that when we speak about migrant education we are trying to deal with the special problems arising out of migrant education and we must not forget that about half of the migrant children are, in fact, English-speaking children, but they still put a terrific amount of pressure on our Stale education systems and on our private education systems. Even though they are English-speaking, nonetheless they make up large numbers, and from that point of view I should hope that now that the Minister has shown that money can be given by the Commonwealth Government to the education systems for specific purposes he will continue to do so and supply extra money. 
I do not think that there is any need to go into details on the question of the special problems facing these children because of their parents' incomes when they first arrive in Australia. We are all aware of these. Basically we are dealing with students who come from another culture. They are faced with a different set of values and customs and often a new language. To refer to them as a 'problem' is to do them an injustice. What we must do is to realise the problems that they are facing. They themselves are not the problem; they themselves are facing certain problems. lt is essential for us as human beings to realise the problems that they are facing. We have to assist these students to solve their problems. We have to assist them to gain an education and to understand though not necessarily believe Australian values and customs. I think it is important to press this. We do not necessarily need to make them believe in Australian values and customs, or what are generally pushed forward as Austraiian values and customs. We have to give them assistance in learning the English language. This is a fairly complex task. What we have to do is to explain to migrants what allegedly the average Australian considers to be Australian values and customs. Let us be quite clear on this. There is no more obvious place than this House in which to see that there are vast differences of opinion as to what are Australian values and customs on many issues. 
We have to understand and meet the needs of migrant children. This requires an understanding by us and by the education departments of their traditions, beliefs, values, attitudes and expectations. We have to understand that a migrant pupil often lives in a home that is quite different from that of an Australian pupil. This is the case anyway when a migrant child arrives here. We have to understand that the home of a migrant child is different in many significant respects from that of his fellow students or teachers. This by itself faces a migrant pupil with certain conflicts. I do not think it is necessary for me to go into the general argument as to the special tensions which arise in migrant homes between the parents and the children because of 2 different sets of values, 2 languages, and so on. [ think that we have all seen this problem: in any case those honourable members who have not can imagine the sort of problems that arise. I think it is an error to assume that all migrant children wanted to come here. Often their families had little choice because of economic pressure or political pressure in their homeland. Other families have come to Australia because of Australian publicity either from the Government or relatives already here. 
I think there is a generally accepted fallacy that things in Australia necessarily are better or more pleasant than in the country from which migrant families come. We may think so and a large proportion of them may think so  -  we hope they all think so. But it ain't necessarily so. 1 think that the Minister realises this. He has expressed implied criticism, for example, of our system of social services, when explaining the difficulties that we have in these days in obtaining migrants from many parts of Europe. Therefore it is quite clear that not every migrant is necessarily thankful for having been brought to this country. New students often have different ideas as to what is better or more pleasant. They do not necessarily agree with the majority in Australia as to what is better and more pleasant. 
I would now like to refer to the specific propositions that were put to us by the Minister when making his second reading speech. The first part of his speech with which I wish to deal is as follows:   . . with the growing emphasis upon air travel we will consider providing educational facilities in aircraft as circumstances permit. 
I think this is just a gimmick. Surely this ls not likely to make any significant difference. What will the Department be able to teach these people during the course of a 1-day or 2-day trip in an aircraft? 
-Yes, although 1 think that money could probably be expended more satisfactorily in other ways. The next point - and I think it is an important point - is in this statement by the Minister: 
The short title - Immigration (Education) Act 1970 - indicates that the source of power for the Bill derives from the immigration provision in the Constitution. 
I am pleased that the Minister raised this question because 1 think it shows quite clearly that this Government should also introduce similar types of legislation dealing with immigration (hospitals), immigration (mental hospitals), immigration (councils) and immigration (all kinds of issues). Apparently he believes - and 1 hope he is right - that under the immigration provisions of the Constitution money could be fed to areas such as the States and local government where extra money is needed. Let us be quite clear on this. The fact that we have increased our population bv immigration by a huge number of people has put terrific pressure on other areas of government and not just on education. 
The Minister for Immigration recently attended a summer school organised by the Institute of Political Science al which a number of people were critical of Australia's immigration programme. I could accept some of the criticisms but I was not prepared to accept others. The point I would like to make is that immigration after 21 3'ears of extensive operation is coming into disrepute. A certain amount of anti-foreigner feeling is again developing in this country and is being used by certain people because of the extra pressure that is put on all kinds of facilities and services which have to be provided by State and local government authorities. These bodies cannot provide facilities because they have no money. The Commonwealth Government refuses to be involved in the question of mental hospitals; it refuses to be involved in the question of local government and says that it cannot supply money. Surely if the Minister really believes that the immigration programme ought to be continued, from the point of view of public relations, if from no other aspect, it should be possible to show that a certain amount of money is being given to the States and local government on the basis that it is money to reimburse them for extra costs due to the immigration programme. 
In paragraph (b) of sub-clause (I.) of clause 4 reference is made to citizenship education. 1 think this is an important point although we have to be very careful that we do not finish up with indoctrination. Earlier in this session the question of so-called citizenship education was raised by one of my colleagues - I cannot recall who it was - with reference to the Army. I hope we do not finish up with the type of citizenship education whereby only one point of view is put to people. I am not suggesting that this will happen because 1 assume thai the people who will be in charge of this education will be people who are normally attached to our education departments rather than Army officers who are selected to put forward the point of view of this Government rather than the point of view of many of its critics. When we are talking about citizenship education in the context of migrant education one of the points that should be considered at least is the question of instructing Australian children in the same schools and certainly in schools in areas where a large proportion of the migrant children come from one country, be it Italy, Greece or Turkey. Australian children in these schools should be instructed in the culture and history of the country from which the migrant children have come. This should have a twofold effect  -  I hope it would have thai effect.. On the one hand it would make it possible for Australian kids to understand some of the attitudes of the other children. Secondly - and I think that this is probably just as important - it would make the migrant child feel reason ably proud of his origin; it would not make him feel that he had a non-existent background. He would not feel that from the time he arrived in this country the only history would be British history and Australian history. He would feel that there was still history concerning his country of origin. I think that the question of morale is an important point to raise. 
I am one of those who oppose the proposition which is often put up by many migrant groups that they should be organised into migrant communities and given nationalistic fervour by, for instance, the teaching of the language of their home country. We would counteract such drives among certain groups in our migrant population if in the schools that the children of these migrants attended, Italian history, Turkish history, German history, or whatever it may be, were taught. This would make these people feel reasonably happy about what was happening. 
I come to another question that 1 wish to raise, in his second reading speech, the Minister refers to allowances and so on which are at present under review. 1 ask whether these allowances in fact have been altered now because of the inflationary spiral which some Ministers have accepted does exist? Another point that has been raised with me by school teachers with whom I have discussed these general issues is that it is important that we - by 'we'. I mean the Commonwealth Parliament which will pass this legislation - provide funds for additional teachers to work as special teachers to deal with these migrants. What should happen is not that an ordinary teacher in an education department should be classed as a special teacher for this purpose but that an extra teacher should be provided for these migrants. It is necessary to have that extra teacher on the staff. I will be interested to hear whether in fact this happens at the present time. 
I turn now to the question of establishing the abilities of children early in life-. I think this sorting out process is wrong even from the point of view of the Australian child but certainly it is very wrong from the point of view of the migrant child. It is wrong to sort the migrant child into some stream which will determine his or her later educational expectation on the basis of some test which is given soon after the arrival of that child in this country.IQ tests, aptitude tests and so on will give completely wrong readings in the case of the child who has arrived in Australia only recently. The position of this child is completely different from that of an Australian child. Two points of difference to be considered are the language barrier and the whole cultural background of the immigrant child. Therefore, it is extremely difficult for the migrant child to obtain adequate marks in the first test of this type that he or she faces. I hope that the Department of Immigration will strive to discourage State education departments from screening children with a migrant background too soon after their arrival in Australia. 
The final point that I wish to make - this is a general point - is that, basically, 1 am in agreement with the aims of the Minister. I think that he is sympathetic to the general immigration proposition and the problems surrounding it.I think that a danger exists these days because many people who support the views expressed by the Government and Opposition Parties in this House are starting to talk about the quality of migrants. I am extremely disappointed when people make value judgments to the effect that, somehow or other, a migrant who comes from Germany or Holland is preferable in some absolute way to a migrant who comes from Italy, Greece or Turkey. I think that this sort of judgment should not be made. I was disappointed that at the conference to which I referred earlier there were people who talked about racial equality, who opposed our so-called white Australia policy and who encouraged immigration on a non racial basis. One of the arguments that they put forward is: Why should we discourage a Chinese doctor who can speak English coming to Australia from Hong Kong while we accept a peasant from Southern Italy? These people are making value judgments in the same way as those who oppose the immigration of Chinese are making value judgments. I am strongly opposed to that type of judgment. 
In considering the subject of immigration, I believe that to some extent we must look at it from the point of view of the migrant. We just do not want only well off or potentially well off migrants. We must take a humane point of view. We want people, to some extent I would hope, who will benefit most by coming to Australia. They may benefit most from an economic or a political point ofview. They may be trying to escape economic or political pressures. 1 hope that the Minister, when he is dealing with people who criticise our immigration policy by using statistics as many people do. will remember an old saying in the medical profession which is: Statistics are like psychiatrists; they will testify for either side. I hope that the Minister will keep that in mind when dealing with these matter. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
In view of his reply to Question No. 1581 (Hansard, page 2611) indicating that photographs taken by, or under the authority of, his Department at demonstrations are not only taken to help court proceedings, what are the other specific purposes for which they are taken. 
When was he first informed of the other purposes for which the photographs could be used. 
Has he informed the Prime Minister of these other purposes. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many birthdates were drawn in each of the national service ballots to date. 
How many of the birthdates so drawn were used in each case by him to determine the classes of persons selected for national service. 
Has his Department ever selected for national service anyone whose birthdate was not drawn in the relevant national service ballot. 
Is he able to say whether the United States Government has made statutory provision for its draft lottery and also published the results of its first draft lottery. 
If so, will he reconsider his Department's previous refusal to act in a similar fashion. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of the State of New South Wales respectfully showeth: 
That they are nol gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because ot a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life m open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that  tks  concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is  ev',i  and ought to be condemned. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the  maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has attacked theorists such as myself without having heard me. 1 admit that under the pretence of representing us at the United Nations he certainly did the rounds of pornography all over the world and he is now I suppose what one could call a practising pornography watcher. However, I have not noticed any difference in his behaviour now from that before he left here. This is consistent with the result of studies of the effect of pornography in other countries. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  being trained for the Ministry - I refer to the Gorton Ministry - gets all his information from Government handouts and he is therefore completely wrong when he says that no civilised country will accept the abolition of censorship. I suggest that he tell the people of Denmark that they are uncivilised. 
The question of censorship is a difficult one for legislators. There is probably as much, if not more, hypocrisy in this House on this question than on any other that comes before us. I am here not referring specifically to those who have preceded me in this debate. Again and again we find the banners amongst those who apparently enjoy what I call lavatory humour and who have strange guilt feelings on the question of sex. There is no time to give the obvious explanation for this tonight. May I tackle the problem of censorship from 2 points of view. The first is the common proposition that censorship is to protect us from what would 'deprave and corrupt'. The second is the question of community standards. Let me deal now with corruption and depravity. It is still confidently asserted in some quarters that exposure to erotica and pornography leads to sex crimes. But a study in the United States of 15,000 sex offenders found no evidence that pornography was a causal factor in the offences. Indeed its findings suggest that it may rather be inability to secure fantasyrelease of impulse by means of pornography which distinguishes sex offenders from other people. If prurients can find satisfaction by reading books or looking at pictures, it is difficult to conceive anything less harmful to society. It is those who cannot achieve satisfaction in this way who may constitute a danger to society. 
In the December 1970 issue of 'Psychology Today' 2 researchers who were involved in studies for the United States Presidential Commission on Obscenity and Pornography by the Legal and Behavioural Institute found that a sample of rapists had seen less pornography than a comparable group of normal adults. The situation for child molesters was similar. The rapists differed less from controls than the 2 pedophile groups - the child molesters; those who molest little girls and those who molest little boys - but even here there were significant differences. Rapists were significantly less likely than normals to have seen representations of fully nude women, of normal intercourse, of mouth genital contact or of sado-masochistic activity. The child molesters had seen less pornography of every kind than our normal group had. They say that the rapist, who found it very difficult to talk about sex, said that there was little nudity in their homes while they were growing up and that sex was never discussed. A small proportion of the rapists who had been caught reading pornography by their parents said that their parents had become angry and punished them. Rapists tended to oppose pre-marital sex and many of them relied on their wives for a great deal of their sex information. 
Rapists told the researchers of extensive extra-marital intercourse and of a high frequency of sexual relations, but they also reported less enjoyment of sex than the controls. They reported more homosexual experience than controls. Child molesters who seek out boys found talking about sex more uncomfortable than any other group. There had been little tolerance of nudity in their childhood homes and no discussion of sex. Male friends were the main sources of their sex information. Most had never married and they were opposed to premarital sex. As the researchers had expected they were more tolerant of homosexuality than the controls were. Child molesters who chose little girls reported little discussion of sex in their childhood homes. Male friends gave them little of their sex information and they had learned significantly more about sex from clergymen than controls had. They, too, were uncomfortable in talking about sex and were the least permissive of all groups on pre-marital and extra-marital intercourse. Most had been married. 
For the rapists, the data suggest very repressive family backgrounds regarding sexuality. The pattern of inhibition and punitiveness found in their families appears to be consistent with rapists' reports of extensive heterosexual and homosexual activity with little enjoyment. They give fear of sex' as the reason that pornography does not stimulate them to engage in or even to desire sexual activity. Rapists are less likely than normals to encounter sado-masochistic pornography, so the idea for the aggressive sexual act does not appear to derive from pornography. A high percentage of rapists report frequent homosexual activity, which suggests that the aggressive sex act can sometimes represent an attempt to cover homosexual tendencies. Molesters of girls appear to have developed highly restrictive attitudes that interfere with their ability to obtain or to enjoy mutual sexual relations. Given their restrictive and their intolerant attitudes toward pre-marital sex, it seems reasonable to suppose that they associate sex with sin and with dirtiness. Perhaps their choice of immature girls represents a search for sex partners who are innocent and free from the connotation of sin. 
In summary it appears that all groups of sexual deviates, no matter what their ages, education or occupations, share one common charasteric: They had little exposure to erotica when they were adolescents. This suggests that a reasonable exposure to erotica, particularly during adolescence, reflects a high degree of sexual interest and curiosity that correlates with adult patterns of acceptable heterosexual interest and practice. Less than average adolescent exposure to pornography reflects either avoidance of heterosexual stimuli or development in a restrictive and punitive atmosphere. As the 'London Times' editorial of 27th October 1970 put it: 
Anyone considering the law and practice wilh regard lo obscene publications, as the Church of 
England Board for Social Responsibility has just done, must take account of the fact that a growing body of expert opinion is inclined to give pornography a clean bill of health. They find that its tendency to 'deprave or corrupt', made famous by successive formulations of English law, is not discoverable. 
The Danes have acted on that conclusion by removing almost all restrictions on the production and sale of written and pictorial pornography. A working party reporting to the United Kingdom Arts Council last year made similar recommendations. A presidential commission in the United States recently concluded that there is 'no evidence that exposure to or use of explicit sexual materials play a significant role in the causation of social or individual harms such as crime, delinquency, sexual or non-sexual deviancy or sever emotional disturbances'. 
The 'London Times' editorial concluded with these words:   . . Judges in charging juries in obscenity cases are always at pains to explain that they are not being asked whether the thing in front of them is shocking, disgusting ... or offensive to decent feeling or anything like that, but strictly whether it has a tendency to deprave or corrupt - although it is significant that evidence of this process having actually occurred is never adduced. 
This is, of course, the reason why the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and others have changed their line to 'community standards'. I agree that there are certain standards in the community regarding obscenity, blasphemy, personal attacks and so on. But at the same time I would argue that they differ from group to group and that the statement is true only if by 'community' we mean much smaller groups than the whole Australian community. 
Obviously standards on some of these topics vary more between say Australian students or intellectuals and elderly Australian church groups than between corresponding groups in this country and overseas. But in any case I would hope that there is another community standard more widespread in this country and that is in regard to free speech and free access to information. I think that most people would accept the argument that in fact some significant social harm must be shown to be caused before free speech should be interfered with. This has not been done and I therefore feel that censorship is unnecessary. This is particularly so in cases of accepted literary merit. I find that many of our pro-censors really support the Soviet proposition on literature. We saw an obvious example from the honourable member for Kennedy who is terribly impressed by the Communist countries. He has previously praised the Chinese system of morality. Today he was all keen on the East German system. The chief critic and censor Zhdanov of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics once said: 
Writers should not write about things as they are, but as they should be. 
I put it to honourable members that this is not the sort of proposition that we ought to support in this House. 
As I still have a little time remaining to me in this debate I would like to quote  Mr A.  A. Phillips who I understand is a former censor. Dealing with the question of censorship and speaking about censoring on the grounds of the use of so-called taboo words which would have to disappear, he said: 
It may be argued that certain attitudes or excitations can be harmful in their effect; it surely cannot be argued that the use of one term rather than another for the same conception causes damage. Perhaps this verbal freedom is now an almost-won concession; but it is still a confused and insecure one. It is only a very few years since I pointed out in a report that the rapid change in taboo habits had brought us to the stage where the use of the word 'fuck' in print was still forbidden but 'bugger' could be used even in quite frivolous contexts. Could it be reasonably maintained that the delightful and necessary activity connoted by the first term was more reprehensible than that indicated by the second? If not, how could  we  justify so absurd a distinction and the kind of non-thinking which led to it? 
Finally I quote what  Mr Gregory  Denning S.J., a senior lecturer in history at La Trobe University, Melbourne, said in his discussion on censorship. Dealing with literary censorship, he stated: 
The group 'protected' by Australian censorship is ultimately a small, select adult group which by every social measure is mature and educated, the most capable of making proper social judgments about the morality of what they see and hear, and the least likely criminologically to indulge in anti-social behaviour. These are the likely readers and viewers of 'Ulysses', the audiences of 'The Boys in the Band'. Their selection as the group most needing protection is an anomaly not easily explained, unless it is not they who need protection but something else. Perhaps they form the single most important threat to the absolutist, arithmetic, non-free morality, and it is the system and not the people which needs- protection. 
The argument that censorship is for the preservation of social order is only valid if sexual morality is the key to social order. Order, like beauty, is in the .eye. -of. _the. beholder. .Some .  months  ago  when an actor in Brisbane was charged with obscenity, there was no doubt where the priorities lay. Every newspaper in Australia referred lo the words '-  boongs'  which he used. Not one referred to '-- '; no policeman or magistrate was upset by the racial insult and no one, as they went through the shame of writing out the four-letter word or inviting the v/omen in the court to retire if they wished, seemed to have imagined that there was some horrendous reversal of priorities in what they were doing. 
I put in to the House that if the argument that public censorship aims at the preservation of social order were valid, it is obvious that censorship would be far more widespread than it is. It would strike out at racialism and militarism and defend us against the glamour of violence and speed. That it does not do so is an indication either of its extraordinary narrowness of vision or of its belief that a rigidity of the sexual code is particularly apt for the amoral morality it proposes for this type of society. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatibes in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard lo the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay', unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister of Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned- 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Can he supply any information as to the present whereabouts of Henry Znaty who was deported to Morocco following a High Court judgment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What were the topics of discussion between representatives of the Hospital Contributions Fund and himself on 6th August 1968. 
Who were the representatives of the Fund. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the amount of (a) Fund benefit and (b) Commonwealth benefit paid out for pathology services in New South Wales during the December quarter of 1968, 1969 and 1970. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many Navy vehicles were involved in accidents during - 
1968, 
1969 and 
1970. 
How many - 
civilians, and 
navy personnel were 
injured and 
killed in these accidents. 
How many Navy personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents. 
asked the Minister for the  Navy,  upon notice: 
How many vehicles driven by Navy personnel, but nol owned by the Navy, were involved in accidents in - 
1968. 
1969 and 
1970. 
How many- 
civilians, and 
Navy personnel were fi) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
How many Navy personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents. 
I address my question to the Minister for the Interior. I preface my question by saying that this morning when passing the South African Embassy I, in common with many other motorists, responded to a sign: 'Let's hear it against apartheid' by blowing my car horn. A police constable on a motor bike chased me and booked me for excessive use of the cnr horn. Does the Minister agree that this interference with the right to demonstrate one's moral position is excessive? Will he consult with his colleague, the AttorneyGeneral, to ensure that section 18, subsection (c) of the proposed Public Order Act proscribing offensive or insulting behaviour towards a so-called protected person, with the threat of a $250 fine and imprisonment for 3 months, cannot be used to prevent such expressions of opposition to a policy which the Prime Minister last week described as abhorrent and unacceptable? 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a number of films and photographs were seized from a  Mr A.  Wiedenhofer of Canberra by officers of his Department. 
If so, what were the charges on which  Mr A.  Wiedenhofer was convicted in the Court of Petty Sessions. 
Is it a fact that an appeal to the Supreme Court was upheld and costs were awarded against the Commonwealth. 
If so, has the Government refused to (a) pay the costs and (b) return the goods seized. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many persons in receipt of an age or invalid pension at (a) 30 June 1968, (b) 30 June 1969. (c) 30 June 1970, and (d) 15 March 1971 (i) were and (ii) were not entitled to benefits under the pensioner medical service. 
asked the  Minister for Foreign Affairs,  upon  notice: 
How many applications were received for entry into the Foreign Affairs diplomatic staff in 1971. 
How many of these applications came from those educated at (a) state schools and (b) private schools. 
lt is a fact that eighteen out of the fortytwo successful applicants came from private schools. 
If so, does this indicate a bias on the part of (a) selection criteria or (b) selecting officers. 
1 direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. The Minister will recall attacks on the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, especially for the 6 per cent wage increase, by prominent members of the recently departed Gorton Government. These attacks have now stopped. Is this because the Minister is even closer to the wave length of this era or is it that the new Prime Minister learnt some diplomacy during his sojourn as Minister for Foreign Affairs? Or is it that the Gov.vernment has received assurances from its appointees to the Commission that it was all a big mistake and it will not happen again? 
I think it is appropriate to start my speech by congratulating the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on his maiden speech. He expressed fairly reasonable sentiments. He did show that he had at least assimilated, from some of his colleagues at the university to which he was attached before he became a member of this House, an understanding of the problems involved. As I listened to his speech, it became obvious why other members of the university, generally speaking, did not support the political party which he represents, because he came to the wrong conclusions. Nonetheless, he did make the reasonable point that minority rights must be defended in a democracy. I think he must have impressed honourable members on the Government side. There were certainly more of them present at the finish of his address than there were the other night, when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made his speech on Vietnam, although it had been advertised for some time beforehand. I do not blame honourable members opposite for preferring the views of the honourable member for Chisholm to those of their new Prime Minister. 
Generally when honourable members speak about law and order, about the kind of problems that are involved and about the type of legislation that is involved, I wonder how many of them are really aware of what happens at a demonstration, of what happens to the students or demonstrators who are involved in demonstrations, of what kind of evidence is given by the police and how much the wording of the law affects what happens. I think the only honourable member who would know would be ex-policemen and possibly lawyers such as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the previous Minister for the Navy, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  These lawyers could have represented persons who had been in close contact with the police. 
I was involved in a demonstration 20-odd years ago. I will tell honourable members what happened. I think it is probably a fairly typical story of the kind of procedure that police go through when dealing with people of whom they disapprove. The demonstration in which I was involved took place near the Dutch consulate. This is relevant because, under the proposed legislation, such a place would be a protected place. The demonstration took place at Wynyard Park in Sydney. There were 40 or 50 students there. It was not terribly impressive. Somebody made a speech. It dealt with the conflict between Indonesia and the Dutch soon after the end of the Second World War. The demonstration was against an attempt by the Dutch to reoccupy Indonesia. As I said, the demonstration was attended by a maximum of 50 students. 
The police had expected that waterside workers would participate in the demonstration, but the waterside workers did not take part in the demonstration. This point is relevant because many policemen were dressed in what they considered to be the working clothes of waterside workers. The policemen mingled with the demonstrators and caused the scenes which took place. They attacked students. They used excessive force. To my mind, any force would be quite excessive, but they were quite brutal. They arrested students for no good reason and put them in a previously prepared room. Altogether some 15 people were arrested. I was one of those who were arrested. At the time 1 was a part-time reporter with the 'Sunday Telegraph' in Sydney and I had some notepaper and a pencil in my pocket. I was writing down the number of a policeman who had made an unwarranted assault on a student when I was grabbed by 2 policemen and taken to the previously prepared room. I was lucky. I will tell the House in a moment why I was lucky. I was later charged with having done certain things. A full page photograph - I think it was on the front page - in the 'Daily Telegraph' of the following day showed me still with a pencil in one hand and notepaper in the other after having already been arrested by the police. 
We were taken to a police station and, after we had spent some one err two hours in a cell, were individually taken out of it by 2 policemen we had never seen before and insulted and physically attacked by those policemen. Although we were fingerprinted we were not informed of any charge being laid against us. We were bailed out later. Our legal representatives were informed of the charges that were laid against us. We had to appear repeatedly in court before the charges against us were heard. It is relevant to note that the policemen who took us from the cell appeared in court, claimed to be the arresting officers and gave evidence. I believe that the first time they would have seen us would have been the time they took us from the cell, even though later on they gave evidence of what we were alleged to have done before being arrested. These policemen were not involved. They told lies; that is all there is to it. They certainly did tell lies at that time. 
I have excellent reason to believe, having discussed this question with people who have been arrested since then and because of my capacity as a member of the executive of the Council for Civil Liberties in New South Wales since its inception, that this procedure is still fol lowed. The arresting officer is hardly ever the person who gives evidence in court of the arrest. The evidence is largely perjury. Even in cases where reasonable evidence would be available to convict the person the police officers concerned perjure themselves. The general evidence in the case in which I was concerned was to this effect: 'I am a constable in the New South Wales Police Force. I was proceeding north along' - some street or other is given - 'on the day in question and I saw the defendant on the footpath gesticulating. I approached him'. The policeman who gives evidence usually says that he was in plain clothes. He then says: 'I said to this man: "I am a constable in the New South Wales Police Force. Desist".' Anybody who knows the gentlemen concerned would be very surprised to learn that this is the format of their normal approach to people during a demonstration. The policeman would go on to give evidence on oath - I emphasise the fact that the evidence is given on oath - in these terms: 'The defendant said to me: "You are nothing but a f - c - copper". I said to him: "You are under arrest". He struggled against his arrest and Constable X' - who would be the second person who took the defendant out of the cell - 'helped me arrest him.' Constable X gets into the witness box later on and confirms most of the statements made by the previous constable. 
T will not go into the details of what, happened to me after my arrest. Suffice  it  to say that I was prominent in the antiCommunist forces in the Australian Labor Party before my arrest and the policemen concerned, not being great political geniuses, decided that I could not be charged with saying: 'You are a so and so copper', so they decided that I should be charged with assaulting a detective who. dressed In plain cloths, looking like a wharfie, was knocking people on the ground, and of saying to him: 'You are nothing but  a  f - c - commo'. This was the only variation in the 13 charges laid. The others were accused of saying: 'You so and so coppers.' I was accused of saying to him: You so and so Commo.' At that trial senior police officers gave evidence of telling the assembled people to disperse. This was completely untrue. During my case a detective sergeant whom I had known as a fellow member of the surf club to which I belonged but not as a detective sergeant went in the witness box. I was surprised. I thought he was going to give character evidence for me. The next thing he did was to say: "I approached Klugman. I said to him: "I am sergeant so and so. You no doubt know this. Go home."' I allegedly said to him: 'I am not going home. I am going to see the Dutch Consul.' I had no more intention of seeing the Dutch Consul than had the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  In fact I was completely unaware that the person concerned was a senior police officer. I had not seen that person at the demonstration. Until he appeared in court I had not seen him since I last saw him at the surf club. He gave completely false evidence. I was acquitted after a trial lasting days and days. I had a Queen's Counsel appearing for me. 
A few days later I was on the wharf waiting to go to Manly when this same police officer came up to me smiling. He tried to shake me by the hand and say: Congratulations, I am pleased you got off.' This is the sort of mentality that you are dealing with in these cases. It is depressing to think that we put this sort of power into the hands of people who, after a few years in the police force, develop this attitude to giving evidence. It becomes part of the job. They do not care whether they are telling the truth. They consider it all a game. I think it is even more depressing in many ways that we appoint magistrates who are supposed to make judgments in disputes between the police force and private individuals. In almost every case the magistrate takes the word of the policeman against the word of the civilian concerned. In general I oppose in toto this legislation, but I think that the most important debate will take place on the individual clauses, showing that the individual clauses are objectionable. The most objectionable clause I can see is one which is not particularly concerned with the prevention of the occupation of buildings. Although I am not absolutely convinced one way or the other I can certainly see some arguments in favour of special powers being given to prevent the occupation of public buildings. 1 shall deal wim an item which appears in 2 clauses. I refer to clause 18 which states: A person who - 
behaves  in an  offensive, threatening or insulting manner towards a protected person;  is guilty of an offence, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding Two hundred and fifty dollars or inprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or both. 
Honourable members will be aware that a protected person is, broadly speaking, a person associated with the diplomatic service, the consular service or an international organisation. Here we are dealing with a person behaving in an offensive or insulting manner towards a protected person. What exactly does 'offensive' or 'insulting' mean? I would certainly like to see some definition of these words. I would like the definition to make it quite clear that any political opposition to the views held by that protected person is excluded from the category of 'offensive' or 'insulting'. It would be possible, under this legislation, for a diplomat from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to be offended if he were present or in the vicinity when the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  or the Leaders of the Democratic Labor Party next make an address at celebrations of 'Captive Nations Week'. Similarly there are many groups in the community whose views would offend protected persons representing the United States of America, Spain, South Africa, Israel and the United Arab Republic. It would be difficult to find a country whose activities at some time would not cause offence to some groups in this community. 
It is essential to include in the legislation some definition or some kind of explanation making the position quite clear. For example, it should be made clear that the exhibition of slogans or the expression of opposition to apartheid or, in the case of the USSR, genocide, will not be considered offensive by representatives of the countries concerned. I am sure they do consider these things offensive. I am sure that references to the White Australia policy in overseas countries would be considered offensive by some of our diplomats in those countries. If a demonstration was held in front of an Australian legation or consulate overseas and it was claimed that we were racist or that we followed policies similar to South Africa, not only would we consider such statements wrong, we would also consider them offensive. At least I hope that the diplomatic staffs that we send overseas would be sensitive enough to consider those sorts of things offensive and insulting. Therefore I ask the Government to include some kind of definition, some safeguard, in this Bill. 
As I said, I do not want to go into any more details. The law and order background to this Bill which was worked up so much last year has not been so apparent in the last  2  months or so mainly because the newspapers have been occupied with the disorder within the Government ranks and which led to a change in the occupant of the position of Attorney-General between the time the Bill was introduced and this second reading debate. But I must say that many of the slogans used previously by Government supporters in favour of this sort of legislation are similar to those used by the authoritarian and totalitarian nations such as those of the Soviet Union. References were made to professional agitators, traitors, subversive elements and the sabotage of the economy. These are the sorts of phrases used continually by such great democratic newspapers as 'Pravda' and 'Izvetsia'. Surely we are not trying to imitate the sort of State that exists in the Soviet Union.  Mr Askin,  a fellow philosopher of both the present Attorney-General  (Mr N.  H. Bowen) and the previous Attorney-General, at least in respect of this legislation, said that the law in his State will be used only against professional demonstrators. Will the accused in particular proceedings have to give evidence regarding the proportion of his income derived from demonstrating and agitating in order to determine whether he is a professional demonstrator? Will the fines imposed on persons convicted of offences under this legislation become tax deductions because they have been paid in the course of earning an income, since they are declared to be professional demonstrators? That sort of proposition is ridiculous. 
There is one proposition I want to put before concluding. It is important that we have demonstrations if by the word 'demonstration' we mean something by which people can show that they feel strongly about certain issues and are prepared to do more than merely vote once every 3 years.  I  would certainly argue that dissent, whether by the young or not so young, is necessary for any healthy democracy. Demonstrators perform a service to society by pointing out evil and injustice without necessarily offering alternatives.  I  think much of what the demonstrators say needs to be said and surely evokes some echo in anyone who has ever been angry over the stupidity of war, over a piece of blatant official hypocrisy, over slums, over the treatment of our Aboriginals, or in anyone who has ever felt that he is completely alone or even alone to any degree in his views.  I  appeal to the Government to make it relatively easy for people to express their opinions and to do so forcefully. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
 I wish to make two points. One concerns the proposition put up by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that no necessity exists to define certain freedoms by certain positive statements because he considers that the method that always has been used in this country to be the more liberal way. I hope that Hansard when reporting that part of the Attorney-General's speech will spell 'liberal' with a capital 'L 
The proposition that I wish to put to the Attorney-General is this: In clause 14 of this Bill positive statements are made as far as certain rights, freedoms and dignities in respect of protected persons are concerned. Apparently protected persons in this country in turn are entitled to certain freedoms and dignities. I have no objection to that. I certainly object to the proposition that apparently non-protected persons in this country are not entitled to those freedoms and dignities. Surely it is up to the Government to protect the freedom of the general population to the same extent as it is prepared to protect these specially declared people under this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Cus toms and Excise, upon notice: 
How many officers were employed in the Customs Prevention and Detection section on 30th June in each of the years 1960, 1965, 1969 and 1970. 
 Mr Chairman,I  put it to you that, when this clause is assented to, the kind of action which has been taken tonight by the  Deputy  Government Whip would make him liable. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by  Dr Geoffrey  Bennett, Chief Medical Officer of the British Department of Trade, that 2% of aircrew are alcoholics? 
Will the Minister take steps to ensure the compulsory testing of all aircrew before going on duty? 
This clause dealing with protected premises and protected persons is the beginning of the most objectionable part of the Bill as I see it because to my mind this is the main new feature in this legislation. I am not a lawyer but as I understand it all the other aspects have in fact been covered pre viously in other legislation. This is a new type of legislation. May I in passing make the point to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that an assembly is defined in this Bill as not less than 3 persons, not 12. The definition in the Bill reduces an assembly to not less than 3. Clause 5 must be read in conjunction with clauses 17 and 18. I am referring now more to protected persons than protected premises. In clause 17 we find that persons taking part in an assembly are breaking the law and that certain directions can be given if offences are committed against clauses 1 8 or 20. 
Clause 18 is the objectionable clause. Clause 1 8 (c) states that where a person behaves in an offensive or insulting manner towards a protected person he is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding $250 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months, or both. The AttorneyGeneral has said that it is quite clear what is offensive and what is insulting. I put to him that it is not clear. I would like some definition of these terms because their meaning is not obvious. There is political opposition to the point of view expressed by the Government as to what can be considered insulting or offensive to a protected person. I cannot see any reason why an amendment cannot be written into this legislation. It is quite obvious that if an anti-apartheid meeting is taking place and a South African protected person is in the vicinity of that meeting he could be insulted or offended by the sort of statements made at that meeting. If a protected person from the . Republic of China had been in this chamber when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  referred to the Republic of China as Taiwan China he would obviously be offended and insulted because he does not like to have his country referred to as Taiwan China. The Prime Minister then would be a person who is behaving in an offensive or insulting manner and would be guilty of an offence. 
I suggest that any sort of political meeting dealing with the affairs of other countries can be broken up by bringing a protected person into the vicinity of that meeting. When the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who has just left this House, attends a meeting during Captive Nations Week, as he does each year and good luck to him, I am sure that the sort of statements that will be made by him and others present at the meeting will be offensive and insulting to the protected persons from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I have no objection to people making those statements. I think the Minister will agree, and if he does not I hope he will explain why I am wrong, that it would be possible for a protected person from the USSR to be in the vicinity of that meeting during Captive Nations Week. I take it that when an assembly marches, and anywhere on the street would be regarded as in the vicinity, then any persons taking part in that assembly or speaking to the assembly could be charged under this legislation. 
Surely it must be obvious that none of us, and I hope no honourable member on the Government side, means this, legislation to imply that we cannot criticise policies of other governments. It must be possible for the parliamentary draftsmen to draft some clause which quite clearly deletes any reference to political opposition being treated as being insulting or offensive. I put it to the Attorney-General that he should consider this. I would be interested to get his opinion on this particular proposition when he is replying to the debate. 
Like the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  I wish to speak about the visit of the South African cricket team. Yesterday I received a letter from Father R. J. Buchhorn, a Catholic priest of Quirindi, New South Wales. He sent to me a copy of a letter he forwarded Australian rugby union footballers likely to be selected in the Australian team this year. I think it is an excellent letter, asking those, footballers not to take part in matches against South Africans. I think it makes the point on apartheid very clear and I should like to read most of it to honourable members. The letter states: 
One of the contradictions of our age is that people are ever mme aware of the sufferings of their fellow men, but at the same time feel more inadequate and frustrated when it comes to helping them. Many would like to build a new, a better world. But when they ask: " What can I do? "- the suggestions seem, so petty, so futile, that they end up doing nothing. 
I would see part of my. role as a priest as trying to help people see the possibilities open to them for effective action on behalf of others. And that is why I am writing to you. 
As a Rugby Union footballer likely to be asked to play against the Springboks during their tour of Australia this year, you are in a position to act simply but' effectively by publicly declaring yourself unavailable for any match against them. This I ask you to do. 
Your decision, as is my request, would have to be made against a background of a fair knowledge of the situation in South Africa. Because this is so important I enclose a reading list to supplement the following brief comments. 
In South Africa, a man's race is all important. It determines whether he can vote, join a trade union, use a trowel, compete for an award for playing Beethoven, belong to a political party nominating candidates for parliament; whom he can marry; whose hospitality he can accept; what education he can get, what wage he can be paid, what work he can do; where he can live, get medical treatment, buy a stamp, get his drycleaning done, be buried. 
And in all these things, the 19 per cent white portion of the population call the tune, very much to their own advantage. The land reserved for each white man is 27 times that set aside for each non-white. A white man has 58 .times a better chance of matriculating than an African. For each white child contracting kwashiorkor, a disease caused by malnutrition, there are 1,400 cases among African children. The average wage for a white man in the mining industry is 16 times that of the African. 
The non-whites are subject to daily humiliation and degradation by discriminatory laws administered with a ruthlessness unequalled since the days of Nazi Germany. South Africa is a bitter reminder to the coloured peoples of the world of what they have suffered at the hands of the white man. Its racism, according to U Thant, is the greatest single threat to world peace. It is a test case, confronting mankind with a choice: discrimination or brotherhood. 
It is impractical and pointless to seek to share out the blame for the creation of this tragic state of affairs. But can any man remain indifferent and apathetic as to the future? Dare any man wash his hands of this sordid mess, and just say: There's nothing I can do'. Could you close your eyes to a possibility which is open to you? Robert Kennedy, in 1966, summed it up:  'Few will have the greatness to bend history itself, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written the history of this generation. It is from numberless diverse acts of courage that human history is shaped. 
Each time a man stands up for an ideal, or. acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from different centres of energy and daring,, those ripples build a current that will sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.' 
Let us hope this is true. The letter continues: 
There are 3 reasons for directing this request to you. Firstly, one expects that sportsmen would be more open to ideals' of equality and 'fair-go' than businessmen or politicians . . 1 wish at this stage not to read the next few portions of this letter which refer specifically to sport because they have been covered. He then makes the point that the question of racial discrimination is a result of deliberate Government policy. He goes on to say: 
The Prime Minister of South Africa assured bis parliament (11/4/67) that '. . . no mixed sports between whites and non-whites will be practised locally ... if any person either locally or abroad, adopts the attitude that he will enter into relations with us only if we are prepared to jettison the spearate practising of sport prevailing among our own people in South Africa, then I want to make it clear that ... I am not prepared to pay that price. On that score I want no misunderstanding whatsoever ... on this principle we are not prepared to compromise, we are not prepared to negotiate and we are not prepared to make any concessions . . .' 
This, of course, as we all know, has been implemented. The letter went on to state: 
Secondly, ostracism in the field of sport is proving effective. Certainly decades of acceptance  in  international sport did nothing to reverse the intrusion of apartheid into sport within South Africa, and many who have played against them discount any possibility of this ever happening. But isolation in various fields of international sport has brought leading South African sportsmen to the point of questioning, publicly, the wisdom of apartheid in sport in a way which would never have happened  a  few years ago. It has led to certain concessions: . . . 
Unfortunately these concessions are more signs of desperation for acceptance in international sport than of  a  cracking of the system. But they are cracks, and worth working on. 
The whole point about the campaign against racialism in sport is that if South Africans could play sport across racial lines, they would soon discover  a  common humanity, and notions of racial superiority, or at least of racial differences as being something all-important, would crumble. And it is these notions which provide the underpinning on which the whole system of apartheid depends. 
A senior Nationalist said in 1965: Today it is Rugby, tomorrow it would be cricket and the next day swimming. Where will it all end? It would be the first step towards social integration. It would be playing right into the hands of our enemies.' 
He made a specific point about Rugby Union which I will not deal with at this stage. In addressing footballers he then said: 
If you do what I ask, and take your stand with Bryan Palmer and the 6 Wallabies mentioned above, your action may or may not unleash  a  landslide. Nevertheless, I would see it as having a number of effects. 
Firstly, it would confront all Australians, and especially those concerned with the administration of sport, with the question of our tacit acceptance of racial discrimination and political interference in sport. It would also pose questions for those politicians and businessmen whose dealings with South Africa while described as 'neutral' with regard to apartheid, actually lend support to it. And as Australians are not altogether blameless in the matter of racialism, it could challenge us to face up to our own shortcomings. 
Secondly, there would be no more effective way open to you for getting disapproval of apartheid across to the ordinary white South African. The impact of a unanimous resolution of the United Nations condemning apartheid would be chickenfeed by comparison. Nothing could be better calculated to bring them to question their racial policies: And there is no greater service one could render the white community in South Africa than this. 
Thirdly, you would bring hope and joy to a considerable number of people - black, coloured and white - in South Africa: People who dare to believe in the equality of man, and act on that belief. They have suffered for that belief, given of themselves in working for the brotherhood of men: People of awesome courage and moral integrity: People who because of what they are, what they believe, are now imprisoned, exiled, banned, under house arrest. They have no voice - the Government has seen to that. For you to speak out for their ideals would be to lighten sad hearts, strengthen resolution, and win their lasting gratitude. 
Camus' description fits them admirably: indomitable men devoted to the unconditional defence of liberty'. His call to us follows: 'we must tell them they are not alone, their action is not futile, there always comes a day when the palaces of oppression crumble, when imprisonment and exile comes to an end, when liberty catches fire . . .* 
This applies not only to the Sobukwes Mandelas, Helen Josephs, but also to their friends and wives and children who wait for that day. 
Their esteem would outweigh the probable resentment of people closer to home. To continue the quote from Robert Kennedy: 
Few are willing to brave the disapproval of their fellows, the censure of their colleagues, the wrath of their society. 
Moral courage is a rarer commodity than bravery in battle or great intelligence. Yet it is the one essential, vital quality for those who seek to change a world that yields most painfully to change. And I believe that in this generation those with the courage to enter the moral conflict will find themselves with companions in every corner of the globe.' 
What I am asking would indeed take moral courage. It would demand honesty, too', in facing up to the objections and rationalisations which will present themselves as excuses for doing nothing. But it is not beyond you. The fact that one wears a football guernsey does not free him from his responsibilities as a human being. 
With countless others, I await your response. 
Yours sincerely, 
Fr. R. j.  BUCHHORN 
I agree in principle with those people who put up the argument that we should not treat the Russians any differently to the South Africans. South Africa and Russia have much in common in their approach to individuals living there. But there is no doubt in anybody's mind that we Australians and the Australian Government are opposed to the sort of government which is in existence in the Soviet Union. There is no necessity for us to make special statements on that proposition. But there are grave doubts in the minds of people all over the world as to the attitude of this country with regard to South Africa and its policy of apartheid. I therefore strongly support the proposition that, we should do everything in our power to make it quite clear both to South Africans and to the world at large that we completely disagree with the sort of propositions which have been put up. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many vehicles driven by Army personnel but not owned by the Army were involved in accidents in (a) 1968, (b) 1969 and (c) 1970. 
How many (a) civilians and (b) Army personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
How many Army personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents. ' 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representativesin Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australiais educationally and administratively desirable, andis now being studied by several State government departments: 
 That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a committee of enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlay it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is he able to say who is the British ConsulGeneral in Hong Kong. 
Can he also say how long Britain has maintained a Consulate-General in Hong Kong. 
Has he received any messages from the British Consul-General in Hong Kong for transmission to the Prime Minister (Hansard, 7th April 1971, pages 1549 and 1557). 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Will he provide an answer in precise terms to part (3) of Question No. 2290 (Hansard, 7th April 1971, page 1638). 
asked the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his Department information as to the names of all countries which were visited by South African sporting teams during 1970. 
If not, ean this information be obtained. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Army. The Minister may recall that in answer to my questions on notice Nos 2814 and 2815 he told me that an average of more than 1,650 Army vehicles are involved in accidents each year; that 9 personnel were killed and 60 injured in accidents involving Army vehicles in the last 2 years; that 399 nonArmy vehicles driven by Army personnel were involved in accidents last year and that 126 Army personnel were killed and 1,036 injured in the last 3 years in accidents involving non-Army vehicles. The Minister was unable to supply me- 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many Air Force personnel are at present in civilian gaols. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What quantity of wool (a) has been purchased to date and (b) is still held by the Australian Wool Commission. 
What sum has been outlaid by the Commission on the purchase of this wool. 
asked the Minister for Cus  toms and Excise, upon notice: 
Has he received  a  letter from the Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne containing recommendations on censorship adopted by the Melbourne Synod. 
If so, did the Synod recommend that an immediate committee of inquiry at Commonwealth or State level be set up to investigate the correlation, if any, between erotic material and adverse behaviour. 
Will he give effect to this recommendation. 
If so, will he ask the same committee to report also on the correlation between the portrayal of violence and adverse behaviour. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical sub stances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Billy got scared. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Why is $500,000 being spent for drug education on drugs of dependence without including education to discourage the use of alcohol or tobacco (Hansard, 31 March 1971, page 1283). 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that at least one quarter of the Commonwealth postgraduate research allowance is taken by most universities for administrative purposes. 
What proportion of the research grant was taken for administrative purposes by Australian universities in 1968, 1969 and 1970 and is to be taken for these purposes in 1971. 
Will he ask the universities to standardise and reduce this amount. 
Will he take steps to have the rules changed to allow students to use part of the grant for the typing and binding of theses; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many Army personnel are at present in civilian gaols. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of (Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Has a table tennis team from the People's Republic of China ever been refused an entry permit to Australia. 
If so, why. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What would be the estimated cost of (a) increasing the weekly allowance for the first child of civilian widows to $3.50 and (b) granting an education allowance to the children of civilian widows equal to that of repatriation widows for the year 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Has the Government refused entry visas to any sporting teams during the last18 years? 
If so, why? 
I would just like to make one point. This deals with all 5 amendments. Normally we find that amendments are rejected by the Ministers when they introduce legislation because they consider every attempt to amend their legislation is an affront to them or as a vote of no confidence in them. I would therefore recommend to the Government that it do what it has done in this case, and that is to change Ministers between the time of introduction of legislation and the time of discussing that legislation in this House, because there is obviously far less reluctance on the part of the present Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  to amend legislation which has been introduced by a previous Attorney-General than there would have been if the legislation had been introduced by the same gentleman. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation upon notice: 
What would be the estimated cost of Increasing the repatriation funeral grant from $50 to $200 for the year 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What would be the estimated cost of insuring the wives of all T.P.I. men, not now covered by the pensioner medical service, with a medical and hospital benefit organisation for the year 1971-72. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by  Dr J.  A. Bonnin, Director, Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, Adelaide that a laboratory can perform the twelve biochemical tests in the Technicon S.M.A. 12/60 profile for a total cost of $3.11, that is, 26 cents per individual test, including capital repayment over 2 years. 
Is it a fact that no single test in the S.M.A. 12/60 profile attracts a combined rebate of less than $6.00 under the Commonwealth Medical Benefits Scheme whilst five or more tests done in such a multichannel profile attract a rebate  of  $13.00. 
Did the estimated cost of pathology services under the scheme increase from about $3,000,000 in 1960 to nearly $15,000,000 in 1969. 
Was there evidence of an increasing growth rate during 1970. 
If so, what steps does the Minister propose to prevent the huge payout of Commonwealth funds for the benefit of the scientific instrument industry and a few owners of large laboratories. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many days of nursing homes benefits were paid by the Commonwealth during 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
How many of these days also attracted intensive care benefits. 
How many days of benefits were paid to patients discharged into nursing homes from (a) public hospitals and (b) psychiatric hospitals during 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many members of the Australian defence forces were charged with (a) dangerous driving, (b). driving under the influence and (c) exceeding the speed limit during (i) 1968, (ii) 1969 and (iii) 1970. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: - 
The offences referred to are civil statutory offences for which servicemen are amendable like all citizens of the land to the ordinary laws of the land. The services would not be aware of the numbers of servicemen who are charged with the offences referred to when they are off. duty or otherwise engaged in pursuing their ordinary private lives. 
Service authorities are properly concerned with convictions for such offences when these convictions have some bearing on a servicemen's service. When this occurs the individual service takes appropriate action. &gt; 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students graduated from Austraiian universities as (a) B.Sc., (b) B.Sc. with Honours, (c) Ph.D. in scientific subjects, (d) B.E., (e) M.B.. B.S., (f) B.A., (g) B.A. with Honours, (h) M.A. and (i) Ph.D. in Arts subjects during each of the years 1960, 1965, 1968, 1969 and 1970? 
Has his Department made any attempt to predict the need for graduates? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What would be the estimated cost of increasing the special rate war pension from $39 to $46.40 (the Commonwealth average minimum wage) for the year 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Who are the manufacturers of polyvinylchloride in Australia. 
How many people are employed by the manufacturers of PVC in Australia. 
What was the value of ;PVC produced in Australia during each of the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
What is the protective duty on PVC. 
What was the value of PVC imported into Australia during each of the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
How many people are employed by manufacturers using PVC in Australia. 
What was the value of products based on PVC (a) manufactured in and (b) imported into Australia during each of the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
What was the value of products based on PVC imported into Australia during each of those years. 
What was the estimated added cost of goods manufactured in Australia from PVC because of Ihe protection accorded to the manufacturers of PVC during each of those years. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the National Employers Policy Committee? 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Has the Government contributed to the expenses of any Australian sporting teams touring overseas during the last 10 years. 
If so, what was the (a) name of the team, (b) amount contributed and (c) reason for the contribution in each case. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 274 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some Contraceptives Devices. 
An that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the (a) total expenditure incurred by and (b) number of staff employed at the Australian Embassies in (i) Washington, (ii) Tokyo, (iii) Paris, (iv) Rome and (v) Pretoria during 1969-70? 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many Navy personnel are at present in civilian gaols? 
The other day I was in the electorate of Cowper and 1 was speaking to one of the member's constituents. He asked me what 1 thought of his member. 
As a matter of fact, I could not remember who it was and then it suddenly came to me that - it was  Mr Sinclair.  1 said: 'What do you think of him?' He said: 'We call him the mirror.' I said: 'Why do you call him the mirror?' 

 - Mr Robinson, rather. It was in your electorate. He said: 'They call him the mirror because no matter what representations we make to him he just goes away and says: "I will look into it." ' Tonight, however, I would like to deal with a more important matter than the propositions that have been discussed so far. I want to deal with the disabilities suffered by the many people who are inpatients in psychiatric hospitals all over the Commonwealth. The total number of such inpatients in the Commonwealth for the last year for which I have figures was 68,000, and in New South Wales there were 28,000. What does the Commonwealth Government do? We all know that the Commonwealth does very little even in regard to public and private general hospitals for which the Commonwealth subsidy runs out at $2 per bed per day. This subsidy has not increased for the last 12 years or so. As honourable members know it is possible to contribute to private hospital funds so that when one goes into hospital one can be covered for one's expenses. However, this does not apply in the case of psychiatric hospitals. 
For some reason or other in 1956 the Commonwealth Government cancelled the system of Commonwealth subsidies for psychiatric hospitals, a system - that had been introduced by the Chifley Government and. which seemed extremely reasonable in the sense that there was no point in treating psychiatric patients any differently from any other patient in this community. Now, let us see what happens to people who are admitted to psychiatric hospitals in New South Wales. Whether one is a private or public patient, or even a pensioner patient, one is charged a fee of just over $10 a day, a total of just over $70 a week or $306 a month. The pensioner patients will not be rendered an account immediately but the account is rendered to the Master of Protective Custody. He is the person in whom all the property of psychiatric patients rests. When that patient finally dies the total amount charged is deducted from the estate of those people on probate. This is an amount of some $3,600 a year and if a patient has been in hospital for some 2 or 3 years and if he or she did own a home the whole of the property goes to the State of New South Wales. There is no attempt made by the Commonwealth Government to help, nor is there any attempt made by the State of New South Wales to help. All that the State Government does is to carry the amount until the death of that patient. Pensioners and others are treated in exactly the same fashion. 
If the honourable members think that this is exaggerated and in fact only a small number of people would be in those hospitals for a short period of time I have a breakdown of the period over which people had been in psychiatric hospitals on 30th June 1967. These are the latest figures available. In Victoria at that time there were some 23,000 people as inpatients. Only 22 per cent of them had been there for less than 1 year, 9 per cent for between 1 and 2 years, 6 per cent for between 2 and 3 years, 10 per cent for between 3 and 4 years, 14 per cent for between 5 and 9 years, 9 per cent for between 10 and 14 years and so on. Some of them had spent over 50 years in hospital. The cost to those people accumulates at present at the rate of $10.05 a day. This is a fantastic amount of money when one thinks of the rate at which it is accumulating. 
This again is an area in which this Government discriminates. It discriminates in the first instance against the psychiatric patients - a large number of whom are elderly - and, secondly, it discriminates against the not so well off people in the community. What happens to those members of the community who are very well off? They never enter psychiatric hospitals, not because they do not suffer from the conditions which lead others to be admitted but because they are admitted to private psychiatric hospitals which are not declared to be psychiatric hospitals. They are declared to be ordinary private hospitals and the patients then become eligible for refunds through the hospital benefits scheme. The former Minister for Health, now the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this chamber is in the chamber now. I hope that he will be able to give us some assurance that the Government has thought about this issue. As 1 have pointed out before a large number of people - it was 68,000 a year and is probably more by now - are affected by this. There is no attempt made to help them. What happens to these people in New South Wales? The New South Wales Government tries to get rid of them. As soon as they become non-dangerous either to themselves or to other people they are discharged into convalescent homes. All over the areas surrounding psychiatric hospitals we see the conversion of large homes into convalescent hospitals. The State Government urges the people in charge of the psychiatric hospitals to transfer all these elderly people to these convalescent homes. As soon as they are transferred into a convalescent home they become eligible for a $2 per day bed subsidy and in some cases when intensive care is required they become eligible for an additional $3 per day. That is a total of $5 per day. Once they are transferred into a convalescent hospital they become eligible for a subsidy of between $14 and $35 a week. In addition to that in many cases the patients have a pension and it is possible for the State government to wash its hands of these people. Once these people are admitted to a convalescent hospital they receive for all practical purposes no treatment. They are discharged with some tablets, usually tranquillisers. They can be seen sitting and vegetating. No attempt is made to cure them. The only reason for this is that the Commonwealth Government - this Government which claims to have some sort of a social welfare policy - has an absolute contempt for people who are psychiatric patients. This Government banks on the fact that there is still some feeling of guilt in the community about people having a relative in a psychiatric hospital and the relatives of the patients take no active or aggressive steps to do anything about it. If these people banded together and put political pressure on this Government, as they should be doing, it would be possible for them to obtain perfectly reasonable treatment. In other words, whenever a psychiatric patient is admitted to a psychiatric hospital or to any other hospital he should be treated in exactly the same way, as far as Commonwealth subsidies are concerned, as other patients. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many vehicles driven by Air Force personnel, but not owned by the Air Force, were involved in accidents in (a) 1968, (b) 1969 and (c) 19707 
How many (a) civilians and (b) Air Force personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents? 
How many Air Force personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total amount of fines (a) imposed on trade unions by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and (b) collected from trade unions during each of the years 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964 and 1965? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What amount was spent on public relations by his Department and each of the Service departments during (a) 1960-61, (b) 1965-66, (c) 1968-69 and (d) 1969-70? 
-I present the following petition: 
To lbc Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in (he Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that  a  Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many policemen were on duty on or near Manuka Oval on 21st July 1971 during the visit of the football team representing the Republic of South Africa? 
How many of these were (a) Australian Capital Territory policemen and (b) New South Wales policemen? 
How many people were arrested by (a) Australian Capital Territory policemen and (b) New South Wales policemen? . 
I should like to join with other honourable members on my side of the chamber in congratulating the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  in his approach to foreign affairs. Earlier tonight we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  make a rather vicious attack on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  following his visit to China. I shall quote from the Launceston Examiner' which is an extremely conservative newspaper. It may be relevant to state that while I shall quote from the first editorial the second leader congratulates the Government of Queensland for declaring a state of emergency during the Springboks' tour. Is there any need to give any further explanation as to the quality of that paper? The editorial states: 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has left Mainland China after a 13-day visit which has made him the best-informed Australian on China, its leaders and their policies. It is firsthand knowledge that is the principal product of the visit by the ALP delegation ... but the intangible knowledge they have gained is at this stage more important than trade deals. 
The editorial goes on to state: 

 Mr McMahon cannot be content merely, to try to make political capital out of  Mr Whitlands  mission. . . . The Chinese have clearly shown themselves to be as completely pragmatic as ever, and  Mr McMahon  should meet them in the same realistic spirit. 
I shall deal very quickly with another point and then go on to a more extensive matter. Last week the Prime Minister finally announced the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. He followed the United States  President  in this action. I appeal to our Government which pretends that we have won in Vietnam: Let us admit that we have not or, at the very least, that we may not have. In other words, there is a good chance that the Communists will take over the whole of Vietnam. I hope that if that happens we - that, is the so-called allies - will use all our influence in any peace settlement to protect those democratic elements in South Vietnam from incarceration and/or execution. 
Those are my words. I am not referring to the present Government leaders who will no doubt look after themselves in France or in some other country. I am referring to people who, quite likely, oppose the present South Vietnamese Government but are strongly opposed to North Vietnamese or Vietcong control. Surely they must be the most valuable people from our point of view and probably they are the most dangerous from the Communist point of view as they have not been compromised in the eyes of the South Vietnamese people as has the present Government. We must protect them if necessary by arranging for their admission into other countries, including our own, if they consider their lives threatened. I make a strong appeal to the Government to take active steps on this point. 
Now I shall deal with the main point of my contribution. I am not surprised that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in his wide roaming statement on international affairs on 18th August does not mention South Africa. No doubt he, like most of us who have thought about Australia's future  in that part of the world, has been greatly embarrassed by his Prime Minister's performance during the recent tour by a white South African rugby union team which was presented and welcomed by him as representing the Republic of South Africa. I express my complete support for a proposition stated by the then Minister for Immigration,  Sir Hubert  Opperman, on 23rd September 1965, who, when refusing visas to the East German pentathlon team said: 
International sport is a marvellous thing. Everyone likes to see contestants on the field of sport but there are international issues which are bigger than sport. This is a matter of Government policy. 
We as a Government are not issuing passports unless a combined team from Germany can come and be accepted in Australia. This is a matter of Government policy and involves international attitudes. In this matter there are big world issues that are completely different from the naming of a sporting team. 
I suggest to supporters of the Liberal Government that they should take some notice of what their Minister said in 1965. To those who argue that we admit Russian sporting teams and so on may I, as one who has been an active anti-Communist for a long time, say that nobody believes, we are pro-Communist. But the same is not true as regards our attitude to South Africa. The Prime Minister's promise to use the Royal Australian Air Force to help these South Africans and more recently his appointment of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  - a selfconfessed supporter of the South African and Rhodesian regimes - to the position of Assistant Minister, as the Prime Minister put it: 'With a view to joining Cabinet', have received much publicity among our neighbours. As one who has strenuously opposed the Communist powers I accuse the Government of playing into their hands. The Communists very much like to portray the conflict between the democracies and themselves as between the haves and the have-nots and, simultaneously, between the whites and the non-whites. I think this is completely untrue and I assume that the more intelligent Government supporters would agree that it is dangerous to help the Communist powers and their supporters to portray it as such. 
South Africa is only very superficially an anti-Communist bulwark; on the contrary, it is one of the worse burdens we are carrying unnecessarily in an attempt to show the world that the democratic system is preferable to a totalitarian system. Surely nobody can realistically advance the proposition that South Africa is one of the democracies of the free world. Some democracies, for example, the United Slates and the United Kingdom, have of course realised this and have acted accordingly, but Australia's Liberal Government, because of its deep seated paternalistic attitude to non-British people and especially to non-whites, has not. The Melbourne 'Age' of 28th June 1971, in an editorial, put it this way: 
We not only play South Africans, but offer taxpayers' money and official facilities to ensure the games are played. We sincerely hope that the people of Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Japan are sophisticated enough to distinguish between our Government's real reasons and its public relations reasons; that the coloured people who are much more important to our future than all the Afrikaaner in South Africa can detect the difference between racists and political opportunists. And we must do all in our power to persuade  Mr McMahon  that Australia's token opposition to South African racism must be consistent and effective, that because of his mistake the world now sees Australia as permissively racist - and that would be the most charitable impression of us in the capitals of Asia. 
An editorial in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 11th May 1971 summed up the position in conclusion by stating: 
In our long term national interests, however, Australia will lose nothing if seen by Asian friends and neighbours as being an active as well as vocal opponent of apartheid. 
A comment in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 28th June 1971 was aptly titled Abhorrent, but don't make a fuss'. That is a reference to a statement by the Prime Minister that he found apartheid abhorrent. The editorial stated: 
Unfortunately the Government has simply paid lip service to conventional criticism of racialism while putting the full force of its executive arms at the disposal of the 'white man's club'. It is undeniable that we are entering a difficult period in racial relations with the outside world. But the necessary act of walking a tightrope between our past and our future will simply be rendered impossible if we attempt to play footsie with the most detested and oppressive of racial regimes at the same time. 
When it was first suggested that the Government would use Royal Australian Air Force aircraft to transport the Springboks I sent the following telegram to a number of Ministers and Government supporters, and I think it summarises my position well: 
Your Government has gone mad, if RAAF is used in support of South Africans. Please try to look at it from point of view of Australia having to live in a potentially hostile world. Do not help Communists to portray struggle of democracies against Communist totalitarianism as whites against coloureds. Government's pride must not repeat must not lend to Australia's isolation. 

 Mr W. H. Ky me, a Liberal Party member and former secretary of the Greensborough branch of the Liberal Party, forwarded me a copy of a letter he sent to the Prime Minister. 1 shall quote from that letter. I know that the attitude of the Prime Minister was also a very significant factor in the decision of  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, a member of the New South Wales Stale Council of the Liberal Party, to resign from that Parly.  Mr  Kyme  wrote to the Prime Minister:  Sir, 
Do nol be deceived by those of your senior colleagues who are reportedly congratulating you for your 'political master-stroke' regarding the South African Rugby tour. They are fools, and the master-stroke', in reality, an act of treason against the future inhabitants of this country. 
For no better reason than the salvation of your own miserable political skin, you have rashly and ill-advisedly made a public gesture of support for the South African regime and its rotten-hearted philosophy of apartheid. This may, indeed, serve the short term aim of securing your re-election, since 'the great silent majority' (which used to be known as the 'mindless mass') is still apathetic about human rights in South Africa. You would do well, however, to waste no time in attempting to reap the anticipated benefits, since it seems that Australian opinion against South Africa is rapidly hardening. And, in your desire to gain the approval of the 'mindless mags', do not forget that it contains at least SO per cent of people sufficiently naive to decide that the policy is wrong, for no better reason than that a Liberal Prime Minister has adopted it. 
But whether you are re-elected or not, the fact remains that your action has needlessly complicated Australia's relationships with the countries in our immediate vicinity. Admittedly, the disadvantages of this will be felt in the future, with which, as 'Time' magazine recently detected, you do not feel yourself concerned. But those of us who regard our children as something more than useful enhancements of our political images will, on their behalf, condemn you as being both self-seeking and irresponsible. 
I agree completely. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Inquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to inquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has he received representations from  Mr Joseph  Tydings, a consultant to the United Nations Fund for Population Activities? 
If so, what has been the result of any action taken by the Government in connection with the representations? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underlie it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the total effect on payments received from his Department when the only child or eldest child turns 16 and becomes eligible for a student allowance, rather than child endowment, in the case of a family with (a) 1 child, (b) 2 children, (c) 3 children, (d) 4 children, (e) 5 children, (f) 6 children, (g) 7 children and (h) 8 children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many (a) disposable syringes and vials of procaine penicillin, (b) ampoules of neptal and (c) vials of thiomerin were dispensed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme in each of the years (i) 1964-65, (ii) 1966-67, (iii) 1968-69 (iv) 1969-70. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many pensioners receiving (a) age and (b) invalid pensions were born in countries other than Australia, New Zealand and (he United Kingdom. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many (a) official post offices and (b) nonofficial agencies existed on 30th June (i) I960, (ii) 1965 and (iii) 1971. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27i per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47i per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these' items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Regular Constabulary Branch of the Royal Papua and New Guinea Constabulary is engaged wholly on police duties (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 179). 
If so, what is the function of the Chaplain in the Regular Constabulary. 

 Mr Barnes: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The function of the Chaplain is, in liaison with the Police Chaplaincy Advisory Council consisting of representatives of Papua New Guinea churches, to give assistance to members of the Regular Constabulary in matters of religion, morality and welfare, in particular by arranging for services, pastoral care and other facilities for the free exercise of the religion of members. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Two weeks ago when the Budget was first debated in this House, my colleague the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  in an excellent contribution to this debate made the point that the pension rate under the last Labor Government in the late 1940s amounted to about 27 per cent of the average weekly earnings whilst today it is less than 19 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  in replying, said that the reason for this was because of the high unemployment under Labor. He said: 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition or residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth - 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralisation of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practicing educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy, that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I second the motion that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  from moving a motion for the appointment of a committee. I point out that this will not necessarily involve the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - I assume it will be the Minister - in making a decision immediately as to whether the Government would be prepared to agree to such a committee being established. 1 take it that the honourable member for Oxley could move his motion and that the debate on this motion could be then adjourned so that the Government could discuss whether such a committee should be set up. 
I feel strongly that such a committee should be set up. The question of a national superannuation scheme is an extremely difficult one. I am sure thai the Minister for Social Services agrees with me. There is obviously disagreement in the Ministry and the Cabinet on this matter. There are a number of different possible schemes. It is a question of deciding what kind of scheme is in fact the best scheme or the scheme most applicable to Australia. I will not canvass which scheme 1 would support. I would just like to submit that anybody who would argue straight out that he knows what kind of scheme he would support would only be a person who has never really considered the possible alternatives. I put it to the House that if a person has ever thought about the matter deeply he would realise all the sorts of difficulties involved in establishing such a scheme. Therefore the proposed committee would be one of the most appropriate select committees to be appointed by this House. It therefore gives me great pleasure to second the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
asked the Postmaster-Gen  eral, upon notice: 
Is there a shortage of (a) additional parts and, (b) replacement parts for the telegraph system TRESS. 
Are other difficulties being experienced with this system. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That there is a likelihood that education in the Australian Capital Territory will in the foreseeable future be made independent of the New South Wales education system: 
That the decentralization of education systems throughout Australia is educationally and administratively desirable, and is now being studied by several State Government Departments: 
That the Australian Capital Territory is a homogeneous and coherent unit especially favourable for such studies. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that a Committee of Enquiry, on which are represented the Department of Education and Science, institutions of tertiary education, practising educators, and the Canberra community, be instituted to enquire into the form that an Australian Capital Territory Education Authority should take, the educational principles and philosophy that should underly it, and its mode of operation and administration. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the attention of the Minister for External Territories been drawn to what was considered to be a strong attack last week by  Mr Johnson,  the Administrator of Papua New Guinea, on racial discrimination in European dominated clubs in Papua New Guinea?  Mr Johnson  said: There is no place for people with such attitudes which not only cause great personal offence but also gravely impair race relations'. Will the Minister inform  Mr Johnson  that he is not expressing the policy of this Government and draw his attention to the fact that, amongst others, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for the Army, the present Prime Minister and the previous Prime Minister are all prominent members of the Melbourne Club which also practises racial discrimination? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
How many Air Force vehicles were involved in accidents during (a) 1968, (b) 1969 and (c) 1870. 
How many, (a) civilians and (b) Air Force personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
How many Air Force personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents. 
asked' the Treasurer, upon ' notice: 
Has he -received- a request from the - Superannuated Commonwealth Officers' Association asking for an immediate adjustment in their 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Medicheck Referral Centre in Sydney will open in mid 1971 as part of the Tyree Foundation. 
Is he able to say whether most patients referred to this centre will undergo, as routine, the following tests: (a) a computerised medical questionnaire, (b) extensive biochemistry (multiphasic), (c) full haematology, (d) spirometry, (e) urine analysis, (f) audiometry, (g) tonometry, (h) visual acuity, (i) chest X-ray, (j) electrocardiography, (k) blood pressure, (I) thermography for cerebro-vascular disease and, in the case of females, (m) mammary thermography, (n) mammography and (o) exfoliative vaginal cystology. 
If the tests are taken, will patients be eligible for Commonwealth and fund benefits for these tests. 
What refund will New South Wales patients be entitled to for each of these services. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
Has he received representations from  Mr Joseph  Tydings, a consultant to the United Nations Fund for population activities. 
If so, what has been the result of any action taken by the Government in connection with the representations. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Thai a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands. France. Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I should like to raise a proposition in regard to the first amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  that there can be a conscientious objection not only to a particular war or war in general, but also to conscription itself. I think this is a point that has not been given an adequate airing in this place and it is certainly a point that this Government just does not seem to accept. I would argue very strongly that it is extremely important that we realise that conscription is an evil thing. If I recall accurately, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  in a speech yesterday made points along those lines. He certainly made the point that no government liked to bring in conscription. I would certainly argue that conscription is an extremely evil thing. In fact, it is one of the points which I would hope differentiates our type of society from the types of societies the Government says it is trying to oppose in Vietnam and in other areas in the world. 1 feel very strongly on this point. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has spoken reapeatedly about the case of Geoffrey Mullen who is incarcerated at the present time. I think the point that must be made in this respect is that while originally he had strong objection mainly to the Vietnam war, it is quite clear that towards the end of his fight with the authorities his basic objection was to conscription. I should therefore like to quote some of the points that Geoffrey Mullen has made at different times during his fight, and finally the point he made when he was in gaol. In 1969 when he refused to attend a medical examination he was gaoled for 29 days. He said: 1 refuse to be conscripted as I consider that conscription is the first step towards a totalitarian Slate. If there be any difference between Australia and the Communist regimes that we hate, it should be that Australia shows some respect for individual liberties. Conscription narrows and for some obliterates this difference. 
While I am opposed to the Australian intervention in Vietnam I feel that conscription and Vietnam are 2 separate issues; I would reject conscription even if it were not for the Vietnam war. 
I think this is an important point. One can oppose conscription quite apart from opposing the Vietnam war. In a letter which he sent from gaol  -  I am not sure whether it was written during the term of his present incarceration or the previous period I have just referred to; I rather feel it was the previous one - he said: 1 am in gaol and I suppose all the official records will say that I am a criminal. I might, of course,, plead that I have a moral duty to oppose conscription; while, at the same time, the government has the legal duty to imprison me. 
In this way I might see myself, and be seen, as a morale young man who takes gaol and suffering upon himself to forge a way to a better Australia. But this is not ' so. 1 don't really give a bugger about moral or legal systems, governments, religions, better worlds, pie in the sky' or anything like that.. I want solely to live my life, without unreasonable interference or interfering, now. And .to my mind, conscription is an unreasonable interference in any man's life. Not even 'freedom and democracy' can justify the taking of a conscript's freedom. 
I think it is important to raise this point: There is an objection to conscription quite separate from objection to the Vietnam war, I think it will probably be remembered that Geoff Mullen was brought up as a Catholic. He attended Waverley College. He was a supporter of the Australian Democratic Labor Party when he first attended university and in his last year at school. Then a certain change came over him. May I read part of a letter which I sent to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in May of this year when I appealed to him to release Geoff Mullen. I will not read the whole letter. At the beginning of the letter, I made a number of points. I put forward certain arguments in favour of releasing Geoff Mullen. I then went on: 
Knowing you- 
That is,  Mr Lynch  - 
I have no doubt that you regret the incarceration of people for their beliefs and I hope therefore that you will take the necessary steps to give a court the opportunity to decide whether Geoff Mullen should be treated as a conscientious objector. 1 then went on to make certain other points about Geoff Mullen and to give certain background information about Mullen from an article that appeared in the Bulletin'. The letter continued: 
Geoff Mullen appears to have joined that stream (? trickle) of Catholic dissenters to the authoritarianism present even in our 'free enterprise' democracies, which I am sure you admire in those living under worse conditions in the Communist countries. 
I concluded - speaking for myself as a nonbeliever - by saying: 
. may I say that they are some of the most attractive people in this world of ours. 
I was sorry to receive a letter, not from the Minister for Labour and National Service who, 1 think, had gone overseas, but from the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  who was acting as the Minister for Labour and National Service, which completely ignored my arguments and concentrated on the legal position. It is extremely important to remember that there are many people who are basically the most democratic people in our society, who are more concerned about democracy than almost anybody else, who do more for democracy to continue to exist in our society, but who are being turned off by our sort of society and by the actions of this Government. It is easy to force those sorts of people to put up an argument that there is no great difference between the society in North Vietnam and our type of society. I am sorry when I hear them say that, because there is a significant difference. There is such a qualitative difference between the amount of oppression in North Vietnam and in this country that it makes a qualitative difference also. 
At the same time we cannot be surprised that those people do say: 'What is the difference? You will be put in gaol in Australia for  2  years and in North Vietnam you will probably go to gaol for  10  years or you may be executed. But what is the basic difference? If you disagree with the Government that is where you finish in both places'. I strongly appeal to the Government. I know it will not accept our first amendment to abolish conscription but I sincerely hope that it will accept certain amendments dealing with the type of conscientious objection which should be allowed to enable those with that objection to opt out of military service. Speaking for myself I would argue that the amendments should be even wider than those that are to be proposed because I certainly feel very strongly that a conscientious objection to being conscripted is probably one of the most important conscientious objections that should be upheld in our type of society. I support the first amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service talks about logic. I certainly cannot see his logic when he has been arguing that Geoffrey Mullen and Charles Martin should not be released from gaol because they have only selective objection - that they are not really conscientious objectors - and then he tells us that even though the Vietnam commitment is over these people are still objecting. Surely this proves that they have a general conscientious objection, not only an objection to the Vietnam war. I think the Government's position is to a large extent summarised in 2 sentences from the Minister for Labour and National Service. In dismissing our proposition be said: The Opposition wants to change a well established procedure.' Then he went on to say: 'But the Government is, of course, not prepared to do it.' That is basically the difference between the Opposition and the Government; we are prepared to criticise well established procedures and, in certain cases, to change well established procedures. Being extremely conservative the Government is never prepared to change well established procedures and clings to those procedures not because there are good arguments in favour of them but because they are well established. 
I should like to quote an article in support of selective conscientious objection which is being proposed at the present time. The Minister for Labour and National Service said that the United States Supreme Court, which in some way is supposed to influence our propositions, has argued that selective objection would be contrary to the public interest or would be difficult to apply. I should like to quote from the United States Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter on war which was approved at their national conference in November 1968 by 180 votes to 8. I know that the Minister is influenced by Catholic bishops and 1 hope that he is influenced by Catholic bishops not only in this country but also by those in the United States. I repeat that this particular statement was approved at the national conference of the United States Catholic Bishops in November 1968 and was passed by the huge majority of 180 votes to 8. I quoted from this letter in my maiden speech about  li  years ago but 1 should like to quote it again. It states: 
The present laws of this country - 
That is, the United States- however, provide only for those whose reasons of conscience are grounded in a total rejection of the use of military force . . . but we - 
That is, the bishops- consider that the time has come to urge that similar consideration be given to those whose reasons of conscience are more personal and specific. We therefore recommend a modification of the Selective Service Acts making it possible, although not easy, for so-called selective conscietious objectors to refuse - without fear of imprisonment or loss of citizenship - to serve in wars which they consider unjust or - 
And here the Bishops went further- in branches of service (e.g. the strategic nuclear forces) which would subject them to the performance of actions contrary to deeply held moral convictions about indiscriminate killing. 
Surely it is a reasonable proposition that if a person is conscripted for military service it is wrong that that person should be conscripted to perform an act to which ho strongly objects. I can well imagine the screams from members of the Government if the time should come when a Labor Party were in power and there was conscription - I should hope that there would not be - and the conscriptive powers were used to carry out the United Nations propositions in Rhodesia. With most members on the Government side strongly supporting the Rhodesian government, it would indeed be interesting to see whether they would suddenly develop conscientious objection to particular wars. 
I put it to the House that the determination of conscientious objection is terribly difficult. It is extremely difficult for somebody to say that he is opposed to the use of force in any and all circumstances, but surely it must be possible for that person to argue that he is opposed to the use of force in a particular situation or to the use of force in circumstances where he cannot control the final outcome of the use of that force. Barristers cross-examining conscientious objectors usually ask: 'Would you be prepared to use force to prevent your mother, your daughter or your wife from being raped by some invading soldiers?' Whilst the conscientious objector may well be prepared to say 'yes' to that question, that does not imply that he would also be prepared to drop an atomic bomb on  a  city which contains, amongst other people, one of those persons who allegedly may rape his wife. It seems terribly obvious to me that one cannot apply the proposition that one would never use force and, from that, say that this is the only type of person who can hold any sort of conscientious objection. 
I strongly urge the Government to reconsider its decision. I agree with the Minister that the question of selective conscientious objection is no longer the hot issue that it was when we were sending conscripts to Vietnam, but it is still an issue. It could become an issue again because the Government is still trailing its coat in all kinds of countries. The Minister must surely realise that there could be certain types of wars in which Australia could become involved where he would not be prepared to say that one should use force against a particular person. The Minister is looking upwards trying to think of such a war. He left the chamber before I pointed out that United Nations action to which 
Australia would agree in South Africa or Rhodesia could be 2 possibilities. I am not suggesting that the Minister would not think that armed intervention in those 2 countries would not be good; he probably thinks that it would be a good thing. But I suggest to him that at least one of the Assistant Ministers may disagree with him and would probably have a strong conscientious objection if people were called up for such a purpose. No doubt the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  would be one person who would suddenly feel terribly strongly that there should be conscientious objection to specific wars. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be  now  put. 
I will take only a few minutes to raise an urgent question. It deals with the Postmaster-General's Department. I did not tell the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  that I would be speaking on it because I know that no doubt he will read what I have to say in tomorrow's Hansard. I also know that because of a medical condition he tries not to be here at this time of the night. The Postmaster-General's Department has decided to transfer some of the interstate mail services from Sydney to Canberra and from Sydney to Melbourne from the railways to interstate road transport. I will deal only with the Sydney to Melbourne service which has been transferred from the railways to basically interstate road transport. Approximately 2 weeks ago this came into force. The timetable which has been set is as follows: Sydney to Tumblong, which is 260 miles from Sydney, is to be done in  9i  hours. 1 have been informed that the vehicles to be used are 180 International prime movers with single axle trailers carrying up to 12 tons maximum load. This timetable requires a 261 miles per hour average. 
I have been informed by the drivers and by the union concerned that this would in fact require speeds of up to 45 or 50 miles per hour over certain stretches of the road between Sydney and Tumblong. In fact, the speed limit for semi-trailers on this trip is 40 miles per hour and in built-up areas it is 25 miles per hour. It is therefore clear that those drivers will have to exceed the speed limit. These trucks are especially dangerous on a wet road when they tend to slide and to jack-knife. The proposition is that this trip should take 9i hours; they are to have a 9i-hour break in Tumblong and then return again to Sydney driving a semi-trailer that has arrived from Melbourne. I have also been told that these semi-trailers driving at 40 miles per hour take between 300 and 400 yards to pull up safely. I will certainly take much more care when I am near them in future, or driving behind them. 
I think it is extremely important, in view of the road fatalities and the large number of accidents that are occurring, that a Government department does not force its drivers to exceed the speed limits and thereby increase the possibility of accidents. I understand that normally a trip of between 200 and 210 miles is assumed to be what can be done in 12 hours. In this case the drivers are expected to travel 260 miles, some of it in Sydney, some of it in built-up areas, in  9i  hours. 
I wish to make one further point This scheme was introduced approximately 2 weeks ago. I understand that every 3 years there is a weigh-in period with the New South Wales Government Railways. On that is based the amount of money that is paid by the Post Office to the New South Wales Government Railways for the mail carried by the railways. The weigh-in period started on 13th September and continues to 13 th October and determines how much the New South Wales Government Railways will be paid for the next 3 years, lt is ridiculous that this trial period, as the Post Office is calling it, coincides with this weighin period. It is basically cheating the railways. Allegedly that has happened before. In this case. I am giving only second or third hand information. But allegedly during the previous weigh-in period 3 years ago, overseas mail was sent to Canberra and Newcastle by semi-trailer instead of by the railways for that weigh-in period. It seems ridiculous to me that a Commonwealth Government department tries to cheat the New South Wales Government Railways and tries to decrease the amount of money it should be paying by introducing this sort of scheme with only a week's notice. I appeal to the Government to reconsider the proposition that the Post Office has put up in regard to both these points. As far as I am concerned, the more important point is that of road safety and the secondary point is that of depriving the New South Wales Government Railways of a large amount of money. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.35 a.m. (Thursday) 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice:' 
What is the proportion of Commonwealth (a) secondary scholarship winners as a percentage of pupils in the fourth form (school certificate year) and (b) tertiary scholarship winners as a percentage of pupils in the sixth form (higher school certificate year) in each school grouped according to (i) State schools, (ii) Roman Catholic schools and (iii) other private schools for the Electoral  Division of Parramatta. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Are long term patients in psychiatric hospitals entitled to receive (a) an age pension, (b) an invalid pension and (c) sickness benefits. 
Is their eligibility for pension and benefits affected because they are (a) voluntary or (b) committed patients. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And you Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Interior. At the same time,  Mr Speaker,  I appeal to you for leniency because the question asks for a number of details and, therefore, you might suggest that it should be placed on the notice paper. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Membersof the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Postmaster 
General, upon notice: 
When did Australia first install the TRESS telegraph system. 
Who are the (a) manufacturers and (b) distributors of the system. 
Did the manufacturers undertake to supply parts for maintenance purposes. 
What was the original total installed cost of TRESS. 
What has been the total amount paid annually to the manufacturers since its installation in his Department. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received representations from  Mr Joseph  Tydings, a consultant to the United Nations Fund for population activities. 
If so, what has been the result of any action taken by the Government in connection with the representations. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict win make it possible to avert the death of many millions. We therefore urge the honourable members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  You will recall that during question time on Tuesday 5th October I referred to 3 cases of meningococcal meningitis at Napperby Station in the Northern Territory. By the way, the number of cases has now risen to seven. I also referred to the grave shortage of water at that station. The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  issued a statement on this matter last night in which while not specifically accusing me of having said it, nonetheless included in his statement which is generally quite satisfactory the following paragraph: 

 Mr Hunt said he was advised that meningococcal meningitis was not a water borne condition. 
There is the implication there that I thought that meningococcal meningitis was a water borne condition. I would like to set the record straight by saying that my implication was the lack of water affecting general hygiene, the ability to sterilise in regard to possible contacts with the carriers and sufferers of the disease and, of course, the need to prevent dehydration which would even further depress the already low resistance of the Aboriginal children. May I add that since then I found out that the owner of Napperby Station,  Mr Shepherd,  is now the campaign director for the local Australian Country Party candidate. 
I will use this opportunity tonight to attack the Government for its action in perpetuating and, indeed, worsening the inequality of opportunity in education in this country. I shall show once more that the Government in this sphere, as in many others, helps those who least need help. Firstly, there is the question of university finance, and to my mind this has to be kept in proportion. As I am about to attack the expenditure on universities may I say that I was at the University of Sydney for 11 years, becoming a triple graduate, and I was on the full time staff for 2 years. To my mind there are now excessive numbers of graduates and graduands, especially in the faculties of Arts, Science and Economics. They tend to drift into teaching because there is no alternative. For that reason I am not sure that many of them will make good teachers. The Department of Education and Science, in conjunction with the Department of Labour and National Service, should investigate the need for graduates from different faculties in greater detail. I would not prevent people from enrolling but they should be warned when they do enrol about what kind of job opportunities will be available. 
Let us look at the estimates for the Department. The Commonwealth subsidy for universities is, in part, $29. 13m for the Australian National University, $6m for the Commonwealth postgraduate awards and $25.8m for Commonwealth university scholarships, a total of over $60m out of a total of approximately $102m for all education. The total expenditure on all educational services in the Commonwealth Territories - that is the Australian Capita] Territory and the Northern Territory - is less than $18m compared with $29. 13m plus student scholarship payments for the Australian National University alone. What we are doing is subsidising the relatively well off at a cost to the average member of the community. The report of the Committee on the Future of Tertiary Education in Australia, commonly known as the Martin report, published figures relating to the socio-economic class origin of university students. A table in the report shows that of the school leavers whose fathers were in the category of unskilled or semi-skilled, and who totalled 33 per cent of the fathers of all male school leavers, only 1.5 per cent entered university. In contrast, only  2  per cent of the fathers of male school leavers were classified as university professional, but 35.9 per cent of their sons entered university. W. C. Radford, in an Australian Council of Educational Research publication, commented:   it  is  highly  improbable  that  less  than 2 per cent of sons and less than 1  per  sent  of daughters of unskilled  and semi-skilled fathers have the ability to do  university  work,  as against  36 per cent  of  the sons  of university professional  fathers and 24 per cent  of  the  daughters of  university  professional fathers,  or 30 per  asnt of  sons and 14 per cent  of daughters of  thos* engaged  in  higher  administration. 
If we break down these figures to the different kinds of tertiary education we find even further discrimination. If we include full time entrants to universities, teachers colleges and technical colleges at that particular time, as before there were 33 per cent of the fathers of male school leavers who were in the classifications of unskilled or semi-skilled. Of their school leaver sons, 4.4 per cent entered teritiary institutions where they represented 1 3 per cent of all male entrants to such institutions. Of these sons, 30 per cent entered technical colleges, 36 per cent entered teachers colleges and 24 per cent entered universities. As a contrast, only 2 per cent of the fathers were classified as university professional. Of their sons, 44.8 per cent entered tertiary institutions where they represented 8 per cent of all entrants. Of these sons, 13 per cent entered technical colleges, 7 per cent entered teachers colleges and 80 per cent entered universities. 
Further along we find that this preference for the relatively well off gets worse. Not only has it been bad; now it is getting worse. In the estimates for the Australian Capital Territory it is revealed that payments to the New South Wales Department of Education for both primary and secondary educational services will rise during the current year by 8.53 per cent while assistance for the so-called independent schools will rise by 22.7 per cent. The estimates for the Northern Territory show that the expenditure this financial year will rise by 42.7 per cent for independent schools while the total increase in the cost of all educational services, including independent schools, will increase by only 8.5 per cent. This means that the increase in expenditure on education for the nonindependent schools will rise by much less than 8.5 per cent and that there will be 5 times as great an increase for the independent schools as for the state educational systems. 
I do not think we can be surprised about this after looking at the behaviour of Liberal Party Ministers so far as their children are concerned. We find that 0.0 per cent of the children of members of the Ministry who attended secondary schools attended state schools, 8 per cent attended Catholic schools and 92 per cent attended private non-Catholic schools. Comparing this with Libera] backbenchers we find that 10.5 per cent of their children attended state secondary schools, 14.7 per cent attended Catholic secondary schools and only 74.8 per cent attended private nonCatholic schools. In the case of the Australian Labor Party, we had 68.7 per cent of our children attending state schools, 23.3 per cent attending Catholic schools and only 8 per cent attending private nonCatholic schools. When we compare this with the average for Australia we find that 74.4 per cent of secondary students attended state secondary schools, 17.1 per cent attended Catholic schools and 8.5 per cent attended private non-Catholic schools. I am quoting these figures from 'Education Newsletter, No. 4', of the National Union of Australian University Students. This document went on to state: 
The Cabinet and the Liberal Party members just don't send their children to State Secondary. Schools. 
Further on it stated: 
. a great deal of doubt should be cast on the representativeness of Government members when educational matters are being debated.It becomes far more understandable that over the past decade they have denied the existence of a crisis in State education. Hardly any have any experience of the State system either through their own education or that of their children. 
The figures I have quoted are from some 2 or 3 years ago and with the Howsons, the Fairbairns and the Frasers in the Ministry they would be even worse now, if that were possible. However since they have no children in State schools it is not possible. Through increased taxation deductions the recent Budget gives a further $6.25m to parents of children at the expensive private schools. We witnessed a rather pathetic attempt by this anachronism of the 1970s, the present Minister for Education and Science, to justify this concession on the basis of helping the allegedly poor graziers to send their children to Geelong Grammar School. 
I conclude on what to my mind is an important point, namely, that there are those in the community - they are usually the people on the Government side - who say: 'Keep politics out of education'. My answer is that education and equal opportunity are what politics in this country are all about. As long as the conservatives are kept in power the average Australian will have little opportunity for his children to get a decent education. As long as politics are kept out of education those who want to give the taxpayers' money to Geelong Grammar, Kings School and the graziers will be helped. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What percentage of the total value of Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1970-71 was allotted to students in (a) Government, &lt;b) Catholic and (c) other private schools. 
What percentage of all secondary school students in 1970-71 attended (a) Government, (b) Catholic and (c) other private schools. 
I should like to oppose clauses 5 and 6 which are under discussion on 2 bases. Firstly, the proposition about which we are now talking relates to the 'appropriate maximum amount' instead of a fixed charge. Secondly, what exactly does it mean? Neither the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who introduced the Bill in this chamber, nor the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who made the original announcement, nor the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who in this place represents the Minister for Health, ever explained exactly what will happen to all of the pharmaceutical benefits which are at present costing the Government between 50c and $1. Are we going to increase the cost to the patient to $1? Let us assume that the cost of a particular pharmaceutical benefit at the present time was between 50c and $1. There are a lot of these. I will give a quick, list. I did not go right through them but I picked out a significant number. I understand that if one takes into consideration all the different sizes and different brands one gets approximately 800 items. The drugs which would be affected are adrenaline solutions and injections, aluminium hydroxide, amphogel, aminophylline cardophylline, amylobarbitone, amytal, aspirin, many kinds of sodium barbitone, butobarbitone, calcium lactate, cascara, antihistamine syrup, codeine tablets, cyclobarbitone, r digitalis, arid so on. 
As I have said, these drugs cost between 50c and $1. At present 'they are on the pharmaceutical benefits list and the patient, instead of paying, say, 75c or whatever it is for them, pays 50c. He saves something on them. Now what will happen? Will the patient have to pay $1 instead of 75c, even though it costs the Government only 75c? Will the extra profit go to the chemist, or will that prescription be treated as a non-pharmaceutical prescription, in which case the chemist will increase his dispensing charge in the same way as he does for other sorts of prescriptions? Let us understand the position quite clearly. The chemist does not get as much from a pharmaceutical benefits scheme prescription as he does from an ordinary sort of prescription. What exactly will happen as far as those substances are concerned? The patient will lose either way. We will find that patients will have to pay $1 for something that is worth only 75c. A chemist will not put his prescription in to the Government for costing because he will have already collected more than he would get from the Government. Alternatively if the items are withdrawn from the pharmaceutical benefits list the patient will have to pay still more because the dispensing fees and so on charged for by the pharmacist will add another 50c or thereabouts. 
I would appreciate it if the Minister at some stage would obtain this information and give it to the House. It is an important issue. It will be terribly important to many people. There are a large number of prescriptions that are just over $1. What will happen now is that the pharmacists will collect $1 from the patient. Let us have a look at some of the types of drugs involved. Some kinds of aspirin are now paid for by the Government at the rate of $1.03. Alkabarb Forte is $1.05; Bellatran Forte $1.03; some haemorrhoidal suppositories are at $1.08; Veracolate is at $1.01; Vallergan mixture is at $1.05; Sulphamezathine is at $1.05; Phenylbutazone between 99c and $1.19; and all sedatives are at around $1.15. 
What exactly will happen? The cost of just organising this sort of benefit, as it is called by the Government, iri which the Government will pay the extra lc and up to 15c on all these many items, will be much more than the extra lc to 15c involved. Yet if we withdraw these items the very least that would happen obviously is that the items will become much more costly for 2 reasons. The first reason is that the patient will be charged the extra dispensing fee and so on. Secondly, at the present time the Government, because of its arrangement with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, and about which the honourable member for McMillan .  (Mr Buchanan)  continuously complains and which complaints may or may not be justified - I have some doubts on this - pays the chemist much less for these substances than would normally be the case. 
There are about 800 between 50c and $1 and hundreds of others are just over the $1 limit. I would appreciate it and the House would appreciate it also if we could obtain some kind of explanation from the Minister for National Development who is representing the Minister for Health in this place. 
I just want to comment in general on the proposition which is being put where the schedule to the principal Act is amended by clause 8. Basically what -it does is to incorporate what the Government considers are the new common fees chargeable since 1st July of this year. What has been repeatedly said is that all doctors or the vast majority of them charge according to the most common fee. This is just not true. What we have had, as the Government claimed during its own negotiations with the Australian Medical Association, is that doctors' incomes in New South Wales increased by 30.5 per cent between the December quarter of 1969 and the December quarter of 1970. Six months later there was another 15 per cent increase in the actual fees charged for surgery and home visits. 
The Government claims that the new most common fees - the ones ' that we increased by 15 per cent - are being adhered to. This is just not true. Every local association of the Australian Medical Associa tion in the Sydney metropolitan area has recommended fees above the most common fees. The most common fee for a surgery visit is supposed to be $3.80. The minimum fee recommended by any of the 18, I think it is, local associations of the AMA is $4, but some of them are significantly higher than that. So it is completely untrue to say that the most common fee is being adhered to by general practitioners. In addition, I understand that only a small number of the country associations have in fact agreed to charge the most common fee as recommended by the Government. There is a dispute between the AMA and the Government over the socalled agreement that was reached between them earlier this year. 1 am not taking sides on that issue, but 1 think it is preposterous for the Government to claim that the most common fee is being charged when we know that in the Sydney metropolitan area the lowest overcharge is a 25 per cent increase over and above the specified excess. I suggest that the Government should, instead of quoting the figures of one year ago or 6 months ago, have a look at the fees that are being charged at the present time in New South Wales. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Regulations may be made before the commencement of amendments.) 
As seconder of the Opposition's amendment I wish not only to concentrate on the points that we make in our amendment but also to make some general criticism of the National Health Bill. One would have thought that when the Government had an opportunity, such as it has now, to amend the National Health Act- this Bill in fact is amending it - it would have gone much further than it has. I should like to commence by referring to the one positive contribution which the Government has made in this piece of legislation. This is the change which was made to the Bill which was introduced some 2 weeks ago. It relates to increased subsidies for nursing home patients. It was not mentioned in the previous Bill. 
The proposed increase in the nursing home subsidy will add another $24m per annum to the Budget, and I am not com plaining about that. But I should like to re-emphasise the point which was made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in the last minute of his speech. He did not have time to develop it. It is important to realise that this answer which was given last week by the former Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  was given after the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had made his announcement regarding the increase in the nursing home subsidy. The question referred to tables which had been submitted by the Government in 1967 - 4 years ago - as evidence to the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and asked the Minister to update those tables according to the latest available information. What answer did we receive from the former Minister for Health? He said that the tables 3.25 and 3.27, which relate to fees charged for private nursing homes, have not been updated as projects have not been undertaken to obtain more recent information. This is a ridiculous proposition. The Government decides to spend $24m on providing subsidies for nursing homes but it does not even know what fees are charged by nursing homes. It has not obtained any information on that matter since 1967. I am not blaming the present Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who probably knows very little about health or health administration. After all, the portfolio of Minister for Health had to be moved into the Senate and I feel that at least the present Minister for Health is basically a more decent and reasonable person than the last 2 Ministers for Health,  Dr Forbes  and  Senator Greenwood  who were completely hopeless and, in addition, in my opinion did not have any sort of humanity or sensitivity about them, which I think the present Minister for Health possesses. 
Why has the number of nursing home beds increased from 33,000 to 47, 000 in the last 5 years? Let us look at this matter. One of the reasons for the increase is that the Government has not gone on to deal with a much bigger problem than nursing homes, and that is the question of psychiatric hospitals. In 1956 the Government decided to amend legislation which had been in existence under the Chifley Government which treated psychiatric hospitals in the same way as ordinary hospitals. There can be no earthly reason why this should not be done. But no, the Government does not subsidise psychiatric hospitals. It does not even pay pensions to pensioners who are inmates of psychiatric hospitals. What a fantastic proposition to put forward in 1971. One could see the sort of attitude which the Department of Social Services adopts in the answer which was given last week to a question concerning the payment of pensions to psychiatric hospital patients. The reply referred not to psychiatric hospital patients but to inmates of mental hospitals. This is the sort of attitude which is adopted by the Department of Social Services and, I suppose, the Department of Health. 
What happens is that as soon as a patient is admitted into a State psychiatric hospital - and I am talking about the position in Sydney, but this position applies in the other States - he does not receive a subsidy from the Government. He does not receive his pension, he does not receive the $2 a day subsidy and he is not eligible for hospital benefits. What does the State government do? First, it charges the patient at the rate of approximately $70 a week, and that rate also applies to pensioners. The States do not take any active steps to recover the fees if the patients have not any money - and the vast majority of them do not have any money. All of the patient's assets go to the Master of Protective Custody, and when the patient and the patient's spouse die the Master of Protective Custody sells all their property in order to recover the amount of fees due, which amount to approximately $3,600 per year. 
As we know, more than 78 per cent of patients in psychiatric hospitals are in fact long term patients; they are in hospital for more than one year. Therefore, for practical purposes they lose all their property. This is the ridiculous proposition which applies to patients who are admitted to psychiatric hospitals. I have some in areas surrounding my electorate. As soon as patients are admitted to psychiatric hospitals, the State government - and 1 do not blame it - tries to get rid of the patients because they cost too much money. As soon as patients have been sedated with Largactil, or whatever tranquiliser is the cheapest at the particular time, the govern ment transfers the patients to private hospitals or nursing homes. Then the patients become eligible to receive a subsidy of $2 a day. It will now become $3.50 a day or even $5 a day or $6.50 a day if they are intensive care patients. 
Obviously the Government pushes the patients out of psychiatric hospitals because they can receive that kind of subsidy in nursing homes. In addition, patients become eligible to receive their pensions. But they receive no treatment in these nursing homes. Occasionally a doctor may call, but he does is write out another prescription for more Largactil or whatever is being given to the patient. The more Largactil that is given to patients the more sedated they become and the more they need intensive care. In this way, patients in these nursing homes are more likely to receive $6.50 a day instead of $3.50, or $5 a day instead of $2, depending on whether we are considering the position before or after the Act is amended. The Government does not concern itself with this matter. This is a disgrace. This is due to the fact that patients in psychiatric hospitals and their relatives do not kick up sufficient stink. Friendly societies mounted a campaign to have the previous Bill altered between the time when it was introduced 2 weeks ago and now and alterations have been made. I am not complaining about the alterations, but I am pointing out what happens if some sort of organisation puts pressure on the Government and what happens if pressure is not put on the Government. 
I turn now to deal with the subsidised health benefits plan and the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who in this place represents the Minister for Health, in his second reading speech referred to the proposition that under the subsidised health benefits plan people are also eligible to receive pharmaceutical benefit concessions. The Minister said: 
While the Government will assist these special groups of people to obtain their pharmaceutical benefits for a charge of only SOc, the onus to establish initial eligibility must rest with the persons concerned. It is essential therefore that persons who believe they are entitled to subsidised pharmaceutical benefits, should make application to the Department of Social Services or. in the case of migrants, to the Department of Health as soon as the changes become effective. 
That proposition is quite ridiculous when already we have seen that the subsidised health benefit plan is- not working for the very reason that there is too much bureaucracy involved. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  who conned the figures from the Minister for Health will no doubt deal with this point. The figures show that only a very small proportion- about 10 per cent- of people in what are called A, B and C categories apply and only about half of them go on to register after their applications have been granted. What happens is that the Government spends huge amounts of money on advertisements in foreign language newspapers, radio and television broadcasts telling new Australians about the necessity to register for national service but nothing is spent on advertising the subsidised medical services available to this group of people. Politically I do not mind because all that these advertisements do is confirm the fact - and it is a fact - that this Government is more concerned with conscripting young migrants than it is with helping the needy migrants. We think that the Government's spending on advertisements certainly confirms that fact. 
You should find out how much is spent on advertising for conscription purposes and how much is spent on advertising our subsidised medical benefits scheme in foreign language newspapers and foreign language advertisements. I want to deal briefly with the increase from 50c to $1 for prescriptions under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Before doing so I will deal quickly with the funds because the schedules refer to the increase in doctor's fees. There has been an increase in the common fees and this has been incorporated in the amended Bill. We know that there is an increase; yet the Minister has stated that medical incomes in New South Wales increased by 30.5 per cent between the December quarter of 1969 and the December quarter of 1970. Following this - I emphasise the words 'following this' - huge increase of 30.5 per cent in one year there was a further increase of 15 per cent for general practitioners which came into force on 1st July 1971. 
In answer to a question on notice, question No. 2790, on 8th September 1971 the Minister gave the figures, giving a completely wrong impression, on the question of democracy in the health funds - what we call medical and hospital benefits organisations. He referred to the fact that 83 per cent of medical benefit organisations and 77 per cent of hospital benefit organisations have provision in their constitutions for the election of contributor representatives to their governing bodies. What he has ignored is the fact that the main funds, for example in New South Wales, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia have no such provision. There is no provision for contributor representation on the boards of directors of those funds. Those funds would cover well over 80 per cent of all people with medical and hospital insurance in New South Wales. 
Even in funds in other States where this provision does exist contributor representatives have very little say. For example the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria, which is the main health insurance organisation in that State, has only 4 elected contributor representatives out of 52 members. I suppose it is a step in the right direction but on the basis of representation it is certainly very unsatisfactory, as I think most people will agree. The cost of health insurance has gone up at a terriffic rate compared with the Commonwealth basic wage and the minimum wage in New South Wales. I would like to make the point that the percentage of subscriptions at the lowest possible cost to medical benefit and public ward hospital funds in New South Wales, as a percentage of the ruling Commonwealth basic wage in 1955 and the minimum basic wage in New South Wales in 1971, has increased from 1.03 per cent of the basic wage to 3.52 per cent of the basic wage. This is a huge increase in proportion - from 1.03 per cent to 3.52 per cent of the basic wage. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the minimum weekly family contributions to medical funds and family hospital contributions compared with the Commonwealth basic wage and the minimum wage. I checked earlier with the Minister who is in charge of this matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="074131197110132_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

I turn now to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. There has been an increase in the cost per prescription from $2.18 in 1960-61 to $2.30 in 1970-71 but the number of prescriptions per person have gone up from 2.13 a year in 1960-61 to 4.46 per person in 1970-71. Let us look quickly at some of the reasons for these increases. The Minister gave some reasons and I accept some of them as being relevant but then he says: 'What other reasons.' We do not know what they are. Might I suggest a couple of reasons. The first is the poor doctor and patient education on the use of drugs. There is a proposition that patients expect to get some sort of prescription when they walk out of the surgery and there is an acceptance by doctors of the advertising by drug companies that their product will solve some particular problem, though this is true in only a very small percentage of cases. Secondly, there is a proposition - and this is something with which the Department of Health should certainly deal - that there is pressure on doctors to keep the costs of their prescriptions down. 
I had been in practice until about 2 years ago. Some 6 or 8 years ago when I was in practice I had a visit from 2 gentlemen from the Department of Health who looked like detectives. Probably they were picked for their size. They were very pleasant. 1 have no particular complaint about them. They wanted to see me and it looked at though 1 was to be charged with something. Then they told me the terrible news that the average price of my prescriptions was - I am now being approximate - £2.6s compared with an average of £2.2s for the area. I had an argument with them because I hate bureaucracy interfering with me in that way. I think I adequately explained my position. When I asked other doctors what they did they told me that when they write a prescription for something very costly - it may cost £4 - and something which would bring up their average price they add a prescription for absorbic acid tablets which cost only about 4s, a prescription for asprins which cost only about 4s or for sleeping tablets which cost about 4s. The average of the 2 prescriptions, although the second was unnecessary, would be £2.2s instead of £4 for the first prescription only. The Government is only kidding itself if it believes that it is achieving anything by insisting on certain averages because it does not work out this way. People can get around such propositions. They can add a prescription for olive oil, cascara or other items. The Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  who usually represents the Minister for Health in this place, was, to my mind, obviously wrong in his estimates of the effect of the proposed increases in patient contributions on the total amount involved. He said that the increase from 50c to $1 will effect a reduction in the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth in respect of general prescription benefits of $24.6m in a full year. I cannot accept that proposition because, as table 37 of the 1970-71 annual report of the Department of Health shows the patient contribution on general benefit prescriptions was $24.4m last year and the contribution rate has been doubled since then. Therefore that amount of $24.4m would be only the starting point. In the same speech he said that it is estimated that the rise in the cost of prescriptions will be 15 per cent and the rise in the number of prescriptions will be 6 per cent; yet the total increase will be only 1 per cent. Obviously those figures must be wrong. I would like to deal with some of the specific effects of the alterations in pharmaceutical benefits but, regrettably I do not have the time to do so at this stage. However, I shall try to do so in the Committee stage of the consideration of this legislation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Very much so. I wish to mention 2 of the points that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  made in his attack. The first point is that the honourable member for the Northern Territory accused me of knowingly making a wrong statement about  Mr Shepherd  who is the manager of Napperby station. I accept the proposition that he is not the owner of the station but its manager. My reason for referring to him as the owner is that on the top of the message which was handed to me at the time by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who is now in the chamber, appear the words: 'Originally directed to Minister, Answer to a question from  Dr 
Klugman re meningitis at Napperby station*. A little further on it states:  'Mr Shepherd,  Napperby owner, is local bush fire control officer'. 
-I realise that perhaps ] should not take the word of the Minister for the Interior on this matter- 
But he seems a reasonable bloke and certainly much more reasonable than the honourable member for the Northern Territory. At the time I had no reason to doubt his word. I think there must be doubt about who is the owner. 
The second point to which I reply is the statement that everything was under control and that my raising the matter had no effect. Today I received a letter from the Minister for the Interior. I will not read it in full because it is rather lengthy. I think it makes the point quite clearly that certain investigations were carried out after I raised the question on 5th October. As a result of the investigations a tanker has been used to bring fresh water from a bore 20 miles away. The letter states: 
I have now arranged for a third rig to be transferred immediately to Napperby from Santa Teresa Mission where it is presently working; providing no problems are encountered, investigational work, including water quantity and quality testing, should be completed within 4 weeks. 
J have no complaint about the behaviour of the Minister. I think he treated the matter extremely well. He has taken the appropriate steps to correct a condition which is peculiar to the Northern Territory. I am not saying that it is peculiar only to stations managed by prominent Country Party personalities, but it certainly was peculiar to Napperby Station. I am pleased that my raising the matter on 5th October has helped these people to receive some water which they probably would not have received because they have no representation in this House. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Who has represented Australia at China's National Day reception at the Chinese Embassy in Canberra in each year from 1965 to 1970 inclusive. 
Who has been chosen to represent Australia in 1971. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
What assistance does the Administration of Papua and New Guinea give to political refugees from West Irian to absorb them into the economy. 
Will be arrange for English language lessons to be made available to these new arrivals. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many items available to non-pensioners under the National Health Act are valued at less than the proposed $1 charge. 
Will the Minister supply a list of these items to enable patients to obtain them without prescription or on prescriptions not written under the Act. 
We have just listened to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  giving his once a year, or is it once a session, expression of concern for the Aborigines. Having visited the Aboriginal settlements and missions in central Australia in the last 10 days, the only point 1 would like to make is that the Aborigines are not impressed by either him or the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder). 
When I was working last week in an area where the Aborigines live, the votes from only one ballot box in the Legislative Council election had been counted, and the colleague of the honourable member for the Northern Territory, representing the Country Party had received 39 votes and the Australian Labor Party candidate had received 152 votes. That is approximately the correct proportion so far as the Aboriginal voters there are concerned. Referring to the Country Party, one well known Aboriginal said to me: 'They have done bugger all'. I assure the chamber that I do not want to be critical of the Government for the rest of my speech. 
When I visited central Australia I was impressed by the many people who worked for the Aborigines and by the shocking conditions under which the Aborigines live. I do not say that the Government is at fault because it has not put enough money in there. But I would like to raise certain issues, and I think at the end of my speech it may well turn out that the honourable member for the Northern Territory basically agrees with me. The reason I went up there was that I was impressed by the figures showing a sudden increase in the Aboriginal infant mortality rate, that is, the mortality rate of Aboriginal children up to 1 year old. We have an infant mortality rate in Australia of approximately 18 per 1,000 head of population. In 1969 for Aborigines in central Australia it was 89 per 1,000. In 1970 it increased to 182 per 1,000, and this year the rate is over 200 per 1,000. It means that more than one in every 5 Aboriginal children dies before it reaches the age of one year. This is a shocking position. I went to Alice Springs and from Alice Springs out into a number of settlements and mission stations when the Parliament adjourned some 11 or 12 days ago. No!hing I say now is intended to reflect on either the sincerity or the integrity of the people who are working there with the Aborigines. 
-I did not meet  Mr Shepherd.  The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts certainly has to think about these matters. The settlements I visited were Papunya, Haasts Bluff, Areyonga, Hermannsburg, Jay Creek, Santa Teresa and a- couple of others. Let me deal with specific points relating to each place. At Papunya we have some 800 Aborigines from different tribes. It is the first of the settlements I visited. It is a shocking place. The conditions there are quite shocking. I am sure that people in Australian in 1971 would not believe the conditions under which the Aborigines are living there. They are living there like animals. The only shelter they have are small wind breaks they have built themselves. The whole family plus a number of dogs per person plus hundreds of thousands of flies live there. There is no vegetation. The people lie in the sand and dust. That is the sort of settlement to which we have invited them to come. The average income per person on that settlement is $5.50 a week. That includes all pensions, child endowment, etc. The people have to be fed on that. The average income of the newest tribe is only $3.50 per week per person. The only modern buildings on that settlement are the police station and lock-up - a concrete, extremely impressive building bigger than anything in the suburbs I represent and dealing with 5,000 or 10,000 people- 2 new houses for 2 white policemen and 3 flats which our group used and which are intended for visiting civil servants, for example, auditors. I think more must be done there and I think the Government is at fault as far as Papunya is concerned. 
Dealing with the position at Hermannsburg, I may say in passing that as one who is an agnostic I probably went there with a prejudice against the people who are running the mission. It is a Lutheran mission. As far as I am concerned, the Lutheran Church is a very conservative church. But I probably could not find a group of more concerned people or more with-it people than I found at Hermannsburg running that mission and trying to help the Aborigines there, whether they were there as teachers, nurses or in some other capacity. 
At Santa Teresa we have 600 Aborigines. The hospital is an old cottage consisting of a main room which is used as a ward and which is partly divided for a kitchen. A verandah has been enclosed to become a labour ward. I was called to the labour ward because a child born some hour and a half before I arrived had had breathing difficulties at birth. When I had a look al the child there were other child patients crawling around the floor where the baby was lying. An oxygen cylinder was lying on the floor and one of the children was playing with the tap and adjusting or maladjusting the oxygen supply to the baby. After I had looked at the baby the sister asked me to have a look at another child. A 6 months old child had been brought in by the mother because the mother was worried. The child had gastroenteritis plus something else, possibly suspected meningitis. As honourable members know there had been some 50 cases of meningitis in the general area and there had been some at Santa Teresa in the previous week. The only place where one could examine that child was in the labour ward on the 1 bed on which the other child had been delivered some H hour? previously and within one foot of that extremely sick baby. It was the only bed over which there was a fairly adequate light. It is a shocking hospital. Obviously a new hospital has to be built there. I ordered that 6 months old child- 
No. I have not time to go into that. If the honourable member represented the Northern Territory he might find out that that project has been suspended. The Government has withdrawn the money. The baby died and the other child was admitted to the Alice Springs hospital. The position is extremely bad generally. We have these huge mortality figures and these Aboriginal children have a tremendously decreased potential.  Dr Kirk  in his thesis, which I would recommend to anybody, points out that some 50 per cent of Aboriginal children never reach the health parameters - the height and weight, etc.- which are normal or average for less than only 2 per cent of the Australian population. In other words, they are below the worst 2 per cent of  the Australian population. What chance have they in later life? They receive an education without having any future. There is no future even if the children are doing reasonably well at school, and I understood from the teachers there that a significant number were able to do well. But there was no worth while employment. The children finished up as labourers or cleaners. It reminded me of the proposition which was put to me by a psychologist friend of mine who was working at a psychiatric hospital in New South Wales. He had to classify new arrivals at this long term psychiatric hospital. Within the classification alternatives available to him he had to decide whether they were to work in the laundry or in the kitchen. What possible hope is there for those Aboriginal children to get keen on education or to see anything worth while in education? The whole education system is aimed at the children. If it is intended to bring about social change - I would hope there is some intention to bring about social change - it must be aimed at the adults. The children spend only very few hours at school and then they go back into the surroundings of the adult people in their own tribes. 
I would like to make many other points but my time has nearly finished. Earlier this year I visited Papua New Guinea. The only similarity between Papua New Guinea and central Australia is the relationship between white Australians and black indigenous people. But there the similarity ends completely. I was impressed by the significant number of people in Papua New Guinea who were involved and who felt that there was some future for the Papuans and the New Guineans. Nothing of this nature will be found in central Australia. There is no political education and no attempt is made to encourage Aborigines to look after themselves. People such as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  talk big about leaving them in their own culture and so on, but all he is concerned about is that they should not get so worked up that they might take action to remove him from this House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
How many applications for giants under the Homes Savings Grant Act were received in the years ending 30th June 1965, 1967, 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
How many applications were granted in each year. 
What percentage of the rejections in each year were due to (a) late lodgment of application, (b) excessive cost of home and (c) unacceptable method of saving. 
How many appeals against rejection were lodged in each year. 
What percentage of the appeals in each of the categories in part (3) of the question were upheld. 
asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Can he obtain from the Ministerial Member for Education in the House of Assembly the number of children in Papua New Guinea in: 
sixth (final) class of primary school and 
first form of secondary school for each of the years 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is his Department doing to discourage (a) smoking and (b) the drinking of alcohol by school children attending schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory- 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mrs R.  W. Askin, wife of the Premier of New South Wales, when opening a Liberal Women's public affairs seminar on 25th August 1971, that the world drug problem was a Communist plot. 
If so, does the Government share this view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the cost of advertising the availability of the subsidised health insurance scheme during the year 1970-71. 
What sum was spent on advertising in (a) foreign language newspapers arid (b) foreign language radio programmes. 
Before dealing with the amendment that is before the chamber, which asks the Government to set up a joint select committee to inquire into immigration, I would like to congratulate the chamber - by that I mean honourable members on both sides of the chamber - on being embarrassed by the speech of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  When I first arrived in Australia as a child before the Second World War admission to this country was considered to be a great privilege. I think it would be fair to say that the point of view of the vast majority of the residents and of the Government was that Australia did not want outsiders to settle here. After the War the position changed slowly for a number of reasons, the Labor government of that time and the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  as Minister being extremely vital factors. In the late 1950s and the early 1960s- or the 1960s in general - we reached a position where certainly the Government and most, if not all, of our opinion makers accepted the proposition that the more the better was the correct policy. Included in the reasons generally adduced were economic, defence, humanitarian and other reasons. As is usual with such bi-partisan policies they were hardly questioned or challenged. Then over the last 1 or 2 years an attack developed on the immigration programme, combining often contradictory economic growth arguments and so-called quality of life arguments. 
There is a great risk that these arguments will be accepted uncritically by many and by this Government. That is the reason for the urgency in the Labor Party in seeking to set up a joint select committee. We have people arguing that every immigrant costs Australia some $10,000 and that this is the reason for the relatively slow growth in our national income. We have others arguing that in fact immigration is increasing our gross national product at too great a rate and that all that matters is the so-called quality of life. In this they include urban congestion, poor health services, poor schools, shortage of housing, pollution, traffic hold-ups and urban crime. Lately the more ambitious under the influence of Paul Ehrlich, the Billy Graham of the zero population growth movement - add world overpopulation, exhaustion of resources and pollution of the biosphere - have come up with a unique explanation for Australia that if we do not have immigrants we do not have pollution, traffic hold-ups and urban congestion. This argument ignores the fact that most of the problems mentioned are problems in all industrial societies, even those with no immigration. They are attractive arguments for the unthinking as they produce a foreign scapegoat. 
What we want, of course, is not necessarily fewer immigrants but positive plans for lessening pollution, traffic problems and urban congestion. Poor schools, shortage of housing, insufficient hospitals and so on are merely matters of priority. They will remain so whether we have immigrants or not and only a change of government is likely to produce the plans and alter the priorities. 
 Because we would be thinking about it and doing something about it, which is more than this Government has been doing for the last  22  years. My main worry is that we have a tendency in this country to establish as many settled areas of politics as possible. As the attacks on immigration increase both sides of the House might decide that it would be politically dangerous to defend immigration, no matter what the facts proved. This tendency to bi-partisanship, or what I would call me-too-ism, has been attached to immigration for a long time, but it is not peculiar to immigration as far as political issues in this country are concerned. A classic example of me-too-ism was State aid which almost overnight changed from everybody resisting it to everybody being in favour of it. 
One of the main reasons why the antiimmigration feeling has built up is that it represents a subconscious return to the old Australian dreams of isolation and also a nostalgia for the more simple days. This cuts across differences usually present between the so-called progressives and conservatives, or even reactionaries such as the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  It incorporates the contemporary anxieties present in the developed countries. It has been helped by the fact that Government leaders until recently have been urging another dream, that of getting bigger and bigger, and secondly that the Government has no information on a cost-benefit basis on immigration. As recently as  1969  the then Treasurer, who is now Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  was asked a question on the costs of immigration by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  This great Treasurer, who can usually come up with figures, especially in reply to questions by Liberal Party back benchers - even if those figures had to be altered later - said: 
Australia welcomes these migrants not only because of their skills and the opportunities that they give us for development of our capacity to defend ourselves and to play our part in aid in 
South East Asia, but also because they enhance the cultural and artistic background against which a great nation should develop. 
He went on to say further: 
As to the cost associated with migrants, I have never bothered to take out these figures. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table, is smiling - and it is a matter for smiling. I was sorry for the Minister when, as Minister for Immigration, he had to defend the Government's immigration programme at a summer school of the Australian Institute of Political Science earlier this year. The people there were antagonistic towards him and the immigration programme and he was unable to produce appropriate figures to defend it. It was not his fault. It was the fault of the Government which has been in office for  22  years and has not properly analysed its immigration programme. 
Before concluding I wish to refer to a matter which specifically affects migrants although it is not strictly within the administration of the Department of Immigration. I refer to the expectation of migrants in respect of social services, the availability of social service benefits including the age pension to naturalised Australians who have established eligibility; in other words, they have lived here for at least  10  years and have been taxpayers during that period, and should receive a pension irrespective of where they live. Honourable members have seen many petitions on social services presented in this House. They are probably aware that almost every national group of migrants in this country is running a campaign to obtain transferability of pensions which has been accepted by most other countries. 
-I realise that I am not dealing with a function of the Department of Immigration, but surely it is concerned about the way migrants look at Australia and their expectations, whether they feel that Australia is giving them a fair go. I can assure the honourable member for Griffith that if he were in contact with migrants in his own electorate, instead of attending meetings of young Liberals exclusively, he would know that migrants do feel strongly about social service benefits. To summarise, let us not accept as factual the belief of those people who blame a whole host of modern problems on migrants, thereby providing a unique Australian analysis of problems that in fact characterise most advanced industrialised societies, most- of which do not have immigration programmes, anyway, as the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  pointed out. 
Let us not commit ourselves to this idea of blaming migrants for these ills without conducting a thorough examination. The possible relationship between these problems and migrants is a thoroughly Australian problem and it is often useless looking to other countries for answers, as many people do. It is a matter so peculiar to Australia that all the relevant information should be examined by an all-party select committee which, I would hope, would contain members with all kinds of prejudices or no prejudices, and would sift the evidence most carefully in order to produce some intelligent recommendations. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, wilt ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs. 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information - withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views. 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought. 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise, Mi Chipp, that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that. Honourable Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the cost of advertising information relating to national service registration in: 
foreign language newspapers; and 
foreign language radio programmes during 1970-71. 
I should like to preface my remarks on the estimates of the Department of the Interior by saying that I shall be dealing basically with the Northern Territory because I have recently been there. What I am saying is a criticism of the neglect of the Northern Territory over many years is not necessarily a reflection on the work of the present Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  because I think that at least he has his heart in the right place; he is trying to do something far the Northern Territory. When I was there some 2 or 3 weeks ago for the election campaign for the Legislative Council present also were the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and any other Australian Country Party Minister who could get on a VIP plane, to see what they could do to try to save the seat for the Country Party in the long run. The Minister for Trade and Industry was quoted at the time as saying that in the future the Northern Territory would become a separate State and that he was confident it would become a Country Party State. 
The reason he gave for its becoming a Country Party State was that there was an absence of industrial unionism, an absence of affluence and an absence of education. I am not surprised that he put those 3 things together to suggest that they make up a perfect recipe for a Country Party State. To my mind, all kinds of rackets are going on in the Northern Territory. It is already being run as a Country Party State. For example the airline which recently changed its name to Connair Pty Ltd has been granted a subsidy this year of $838,620, which is nearly a 100 per cent increase. This subsidy is  5i  times as much as the subsidy granted to Ansett Airlines of Australia for the whole of Australia. It is a Liberal Party organisation, as honourable members may know, while Connair is a Country Party organisation. No tenders are called for the services provided by Connair.  Mr Eddie  Connellan, the managing director of Connair, is described as having been a member and a strong supporter of the Country Party for many years. . 

 Sir John McEwen, the former Leader of the Country Party, is quoted as having said in Darwin in 1969: T will resist any moves which may bring competition to  Mr Con.nellan's  airline'. He made it clear that he would use all of his influence to block any attempts to have the service open to tender. This is a Country Party airline. We do not want anybody else coming in here. So it costs the taxpayers $838,620 this year.  Sir John  McEwen said that  Mr Connellan  was a wonderful man whose airline made only a pittance out of the subsidised operation. I am sure that  Mr Connellan,  apart from supplying free transport for Country Party candidates in all kinds of local elections in the Northern Territory, also kicks in substantially to the Country Party kitty. But the objectionable thing as far as I am concerned is that no tender is called and that public money is being used to subsidise a political party. 
On Tuesday, 26th October last, 1 spoke on the estimates of the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I made the point that I have visited the Northern Territory and that I have seen Aborigines who were living like animals at Papunya. People accused me of trying to make political capital out of this. Let mc quote what  Dr Goff  Letts, a Country Party candidate at the recent Legislative Council election, said. I am quoting from the 'Sunday Australian' of 17th October. The heading is 'Aboriginal graduates live in kennels'. The report states: 
Young Aboriginals educated at Darwin's highly rated Kormilda College are living in 'insanitary kennels' at a welfare settlement without job opportunities, a doctor claimed this week. 
The doctor was not I. The report continues: 
Humpies would be too complimentary a term for the primitive unsanitary kennels in which people live', said  Dr Goff  Letts, a Country Party candidate in the Northern Territory's Legislative Council election. 
The settlement is at Hooker Creek, 480 miles south west of Darwin.  Dr Letts  said the people at Hooker Creek dad asked for better housing and were prepared to work on their own home building projects - but nothing ha'd been done. "The most depressing side of it is the presence of a number of young Aboriginals who attended Kormilda College only to return to conditions of wretchedness without useful work or means to practise what they have learned.' 
And he warned that unless action was taken to give employment opportunity at Hooker Creek an area of bitterness and trouble' would develop. 
The report then gives a description of  Dr Letts  background. The story was followed up in the Northern Territory 'News' of 30th October. There is a picture of the Hooker Creek settlement. Referring to  Dr Letts,  that reports states: 
One of the terrible things about the situation is that these people are living only 100 yards from the staff quarters,' he said. 
The staff quarters are generally of a pretty fair to good standard - some brick and some demountable and generally air-conditioned. Every time the people living in these kennels look up they see the staff houses. The type of housing provided for the staff at Hooker Creek should be provided for everyone there. 
The report then describes what happens to those who attended Kormilda College.  Dr Letts  said that the situation at Hooker Creek was completely unnecessary. At that stage  Dr Letts  was a Country Party candidate. He is now a Country Party member of the Legislative Council, having defeated an independent member. He is an addition to the Country Party strength in the Legislative Council to which the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  referred earlier. The reason why he was elected to the Legislative Council was that he attacked the County Party administration of the Northern Territory; Good luck to him if he keeps it up. The position there is quite shocking. 
I refer briefly to the Northern Territory Development Notes for the 1971 Budget. On page 20 there is a comparison table of activity of proposed expenditure for the last 2 years. Honourable members will note that while Aboriginal advancement expenditure is proposed to be increased by 13 per cent this year the increased expenditure on police has risen by 16 per cent. Last week the Northern Territory 'News' carried stories by a Sister Helen Wagner who had recently resigned from the Department of the Interior. I will try to read into the record some of the points that she makes, but the important point that she is making is the confusion in the Northern Territory. Different government departments are running services which should be run by one government department. Sisters are employed at bush hospitals run by the Welfare Division of the Department of the Interior. The doctors are employed by the Department of Health. The sisters are not under the direction of doctors. They have contact with doctors by radio. They are visited by doctors, but they are in different departments.  This is a ridiculous proposition. 
Both the sisters and the doctors, on my visit, agreed that there should be some joint control. The reason for the separate control no doubt is empire building on the part of one or other of the departments. I do not know which one it is, and I do not particularly care. If this has lead to the situation in which infant mortality in Central Australia has risen to over 200 per 1,000 as compared with 80 per 1,000 2 or 3 years ago, obviously the position must be changed. I do not care whose corns one treads on, the important thing is that the position must be changed as quickly as possible. We have a description by Sister Wagner of the sort of things that apparently were going on, according to her, when she first went there in 1967 and the sort of things that she implies tend to go on now and are the reason for this increase in infant mortality. My time has almost expired and I am therefore unable to read this report into the record. But there are some shocking allegations made in this report. I agree with the Northern Territory 'News' that there is complete justification for the appointment of some sort of committee of inquiry to investigate, not to allot blame because I do not think this is the important thing in this case. This should not be the aim of such an inquiry but it should try to find out what would be a reasonable method of improving the set-up there because I think it is important that it is improved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What was the cigarette consumptionin Australia in the years ending 30th June 1955, 1960, 1965, 1967, 1968, 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
What was the return in excise to the Commonwealth from cigarettes and tobacco in each of these years. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has his Department investigated the Giro system of money exchange as practised in the United Kingdom and other European post offices. 
Have the private banks made any representations opposing the introduction of the Giro system into Australia. 
If so, what was the basis of these representations apart from a likely drop in bank profits. 
-I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether the Council of Ministers established by the Prime Minister in May to inquire into Aboriginal land rights reached a decision on this matter some weeks ago. Has any recommendation of the Council been considered by Cabinet and. if so, with what result? When the Minister told the Leader of the Opposition on 27th October that the Council was still examining the question of land rights, did he mean that its original recommendation had been referred for reconsideration? If so, on whose authority was this action taken? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In debating the estimates for the Department of Health I would like to make one point in passing. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  earlier criticised the Government's method of costing propositions put forward by members of the Australian Labor Party. It is quite clear that many figures which the Government produces are completely fictitious. For example, the honourable member for Oxley dealt with the question of contraceptives, lt is only an assumption as to what tYPe of contraceptive a woman would use if contraceptives were placed on the pharmaceutical benefits list. To use intra-uterine devices the cost would be something of the order of a few cents a year for each woman. The Government has apparently costed this proposal on the basis of women not using the plastic intra-ulterine device but the old fashioned gold stem intra-uterine device. The Government seems to think that under a Labor Government women would be able to afford this. 
I suggest to the Government that this is not the way to cost this proposition. Nor can you cost medicine and medical services, or argue about them in the way the Australian Medical Association is at the present time. On 4th November 1971, as a supplement to the Australian Medical Association Gazette', the Association produced a booklet entitled 'I Am a Fact Book' containing facts and arguments supporting the Association's position on fees. The Association made the point that the booklet was produced as a guide to doctors when speaking to newspaper reporters and others. This was the reason the booklet was distributed. It is interesting to note that the great authority quoted by the Association as having carried out the research for this booklet - and it has taken the Association a long time to produce it - is the Health Economics Service which is a division of the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. It is ridiculous for the AMA to use as its source figures from a division of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. In many ways it is even unethical. 
If honourable members look at the contents of this booklet they will find some fantastic figures. The booklet contains the medical cost for a patient on the per-day basis. Why not per-hour? It would sound even less. The cost has been worked out per person per day, but even then the figure has been underestimated by 58 per cent. The conclusion reached is 4c a day but actual cost is 6.3c a day, which is 58 per cent higher. At least the booklet sets out how the cost is arrived at. This is done by taking the total amount that is spent by the Commonwealth on patients who are insured, dividing that amount by 365 days and then dividing that figure by the total Australian population - ignoring the fact that not everyone in the total Australian population belongs to medical and hospital insurance funds. In fact by a more realistic calculation you arrive at a cost of 6.3c a day, as I have already pointed out. To that amount has to be added amounts for the patients who come within the provisions of the pensioner medical service and for the repatriation patients and the amounts paid by those patients who are not insured because they are unable to pay for the insurance. There is a significant number of people in the community who are unable to pay for health insurance. 
Insurance costs have gone up at a fantastic rate. Taking the original figures for 1955 when the scheme was first introduced, and taking the cost at the lowest scale of medical benefits and the lowest scale of hospital insurance, as a proportion of the basic wage in New South Wales at that time the amount required for health insurance was 1.03 per cent. In other words, a family on the basic wage at that time was required to pay 1.03 per cent of its income for medical and hospital insurance. That amount has increased to 3.52 per cent today, which is 3i times, as a proportion of the present Commonwealth basic wage paid in Sydney. For a person wishing to be insured for intermediate ward cover, the increase has been from 1.44 per cent to 4.5 per cent today. This means that 4.5 per cent of the minimum Commonwealth basic wage is now required just to pay for medical and hospital insurance. This is a fantastically high proportion of the income that is received by a family which is something close to the minimum wage. 
I have only a few minutes left to me in this debate and there is so much to attack as far as the health scheme is concerned. It is deplorable that the Government, having found out during its first year in office after the 1969 elections, that the then Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  a member of this House, was unable to cope with the sort of propositions put to him and the sort of questions asked of him because we had on the Opposition side a number of people who were able to understand the health scheme, transferred the portfolio of Health to the Senate and it has remained hidden in that chamber. I strongly deplore this action because health is an important subject not only to this Government but also to the people of Australia. It is so important that the responsibility of this portfolio should be retained in this chamber. 
I have previously raised the matter of psychiatric patients in regard to health benefits. In reply to a question I asked of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  the Minister is reported in yesterday's Hansard as saying that a large number of people are still losing their pensions each year - each day for that matter - because they have been admitted to psychiatric hospitals. It is deplorable that a person who has been in receipt of the age pension or the invalid pension is no longer eligible to receive the pension when he or she has been admitted to a psychiatric hospital. This is bad enough but on top of this we have complete neglect by this Government of hospital and medical responsibility for persons who are in psychiatric hospitals. 
These are people who think that they are insured for a likely or possible hospital charge which may hit them or their families but what happens is that should they be admitted to a psychiatric hospital for a psychiatric illness they will be unable to claim on any fund in New South Wales. In Sydney the charge is over $10 a day, for every day that a person remains in a psychiatric hospital. The Commonwealth Government contributes nothing towards the expense. The fact that a person may belong to a hospital fund does not entitle him to any refund. At the rate of $70 a week a person's debt to a psychiatric hospital accumulates to a very large amount in a short time. The State Government is being reasonable in regard to the collection of these debts but in the end they have to be collected and they are taken out of a person's estate. 
Those people who are admitted to a psychiatric hospital have their estates taken over at the rate of over $3,600 a year, which in most cases diminishes the assets very quickly. I consider this to be a deplorable situation. It is gross discrimination which would not be possible in any other country. We have just heard the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  say that Australia has produced the greatest medical scheme and that it has produced the greatest kind of medicines. I am sure that there is no other country in the world that would discriminate in the way in which this Government does against people who suffer from psychiatric illnesses. 
In the short time left to me in this debate I would like to make one point. The Government has repeatedly claimed that the medical scheme is workable and that most doctors charge common fees. I have previously pointed out that there is not one single local medical association in the metropolitan area of Sydney which does not recommend a charge higher than the common fee. It is therefore extremely unlikely that any doctor in Sydney does in fact charge less than the common fee. Recently the Manchester Unity medical fund claimed that in Mackay only 6 per cent of doctors charged the common fee and m 70.5 per cent above it. At Townsville 15.4 per cent were charging the common fee and 72 per cent above it. At Cairns the figures were 7.33 per cent and 81 per cent, and at Southport 24.3 per cent and 60.7 per cent. How can the Government possibly argue that this scheme is workable? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
Has his attentionbeen drawn to a statement by  Mr Clyde  Packer,  Deputy Chairman  and Joint Managing Director of Television Corporation Ltd and  Chairman  of General Television Corporations, that 50 per cent of metropolitan commercial television stations and 75 per cent of metropolitan daily newspapers are controlled by the same two companies and that he considers this to be disturbing and not healthy. 
If the position is as stated, what is the attitude of the Government to this form of monopoly control. 
Does the Government intend to take any action in the matter. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement by the Queensland Minister for Justice,  Dr Delamothe,  that vasectomy for contraceptive purposes is illegal in Queensland. 
Is this operation illegal in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Is the Minister able to state the position in the other Australian States. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney:General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the decision of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory on 27th April 1971 in Milirrpum and others v. Nabalco Pty Ltd and The Commonwealth of Australia (the Gove Land Rights Case). 
Has the Attorney-General's attention also been drawn to the decision of the Full Court of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in the case of Era Taoro Land in May 1971. 
If so, is there an apparent conflict between the two decisions; if not, can he say why not in language which can be understood by persons without legal training. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the Commonwealth Government subsidy to Connair Pty Ltd (Connellan Airways 1939-70) during (a) 1969-70 and (b) 1970-71. 
Who are the Directors of Connair Pty Ltd, at this date. 
Is he able to say who were the Directors of Connellan Airways at 30th June in (a) 1963, (b) 1965, (c) 1968 and (d) 1969. 
asked the Postmaster-Gen eral, upon notice: 
Do post offices perform any services tor Commonwealth Government departments in addition to those connected with (a) electrical registration - Department of the Interior, (b) alien registration and application for naturalisation - Department  of  Immigration (e) registration for national service - Department of Labour and National Service, (d) War Service Homes loan repayments - Department of Housing, (c) taxation forms, lax stamps and tax books - Department of the Treasury, (f) applications for age, widow and invalid pensions, child endowment, supplementary, assistance, pre-natal allowance and pensioners reduced television and radio licence - Department  of  Social Services and (g) applications for war widows' pensions and war widows' reduced television and radio licence - Repatriation Department. 
Does his Department receive any payment for these services? 
If so, what amount has been received from each of the departments concerned during each of the last 5 years? 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
How many claims were made on the Migrant Emergency fund in each State during each of the last three years. 
What sum was (a) disbursed and (b) recovered in each State in each of those years. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What (a) Commonwealth or (b) Slate laws prevent (i) advertising of or (ii) advice on birth control methods. 
I would like to reply very quickly to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  who is leaving us within a short time to go back to the Bar. I am here referring to the Bar of the State of New South Wales. I am not sure whether he is aware of the drug laws of the State, but the Labor Party is not specifically trying to get a person off on the question as to whether he has imported goods into Australia. We are arguing whether he should be prosecuted under State legislation or under Federal legislation. The honourable member for Berowra, when he resumes his practice at the Bar, may well prefer to appear in Federal jurisdiction. There may be higher fees in Federal jurisdiction than there are in State jurisdiction. I do not know what his reasons are for supporting the transfer of these cases to Federal jurisdiction, but let me make it quite clear that whatever substances a person may be prosecuted for under the legislation we are dealing with tonight he can already be prosecuted for, and there are the same penalties - in fact there are higher penalties - under State legislation. What we are arguing about is whether a person should be prosecuted under Federal legislation for the purpose of empire building in the Department of Customs and Excise, or maybe for the purpose of increased legal fees under Federal jurisdiction, or whether be should be prosecuted under State legis lation. Let me make it quite clear that they are the main points that the Labor Party is dealing with in this case. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as  a  result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will takeimmediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  which asks that the Bill be withdrawn because it does not deal adequately with either drug trafficking or drug abuse and the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. I would like firstly to deal with the second part of the amendment. To sum up my attitude to this amending legislation I would like to say that it is a completely ridiculous piece of legislation following the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. For any Minister to introduce this sort of legislation after months and months of hearings by the Senate Select Committee and the publication of a report by the Senate Committee seems to me to be quite ridiculous. 
Generally speaking, I defend the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  on his attitude on drugs. I think that while he does go overboard, as many of us tend to do when we get the opportunity to get our point of view into the media, I do not think that basically his attitude is incorrect. I think that the media is to blame to a large extent for picking very carefully the sensational parts of the Minister's statements. 
Broadly speaking, as far as I can see, this legislation is intended to be only empire building for the Department of Customs and Excise. There have been all kinds of allegations in the New South Wales newspapers and in the New South Wales Parliament. They have concerned officers of the special services branch of the Department of Customs and Excise and officers of the New South Wales police force. There have been allegations of bribery, of false statements and of fights between those 2 bodies. This legislation represents an attempt by the Department of Customs and Excise to invade what normally would be the preserve of the State police departments and as the Department would put it, I suppose, to deal with the problem. Others would say - I am not necessarily one of them - that it wants to get in for its cut. 
When the Parliament is dealing with an extremely important problem - how to deal with drug abuse - we should not be influenced by side issues such as the interests of other Ministers or, more importantly, significant people in the appropriate department. As I read the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, there is no suggestion for the introduction of this type of legislation. As I continue my remarks, I hope to bring this out in more detail. Let me first deal with the question of drug abuse in general, and of treatment and rehabilitation. What is this Department dealing with? I suppose that the Department of Customs and Excise derives 90 per cent of its income - I have not checked this in detail - from 2 major drugs. It derives the income from the excises on alcohol and cigarettes. It lives on that. I suppose that it helps the Government and the Commonwealth of Australia to live on that. Then, it becomes pretentious about avoiding the spread of drugs in the community. Parties are held by the Department of Customs and Excise, at which plenty of alcohol is served, to launch drug education programmes. What a ridiculous proposition. 
Honourable members heard the proposition advanced by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  who was speaking  a  few moments ago. He suggested that one of the nice ways of dealing with .the drug problem would be for people to have get- together parties such as those recently held in Canberra where we can all have drinks together and talk about the problems connected with drugs. What a ridiculous proposition. I notice that the honourable member for Herbert is now occupying the chair as the  Deputy Speaker.  I did not notice that when 1 was attacking him. I am sorry that he is not now in a position to interject. But I deplore this sort of attitude adopted by people who completely ignore certain drugs. Late last year I asked a question in relation to the proportion of the Budget spent on the programmes directed to discourage the use of certain drugs. I asked the Minister: 
What proportion of the $500,000 budget for drug education programmes is devoted to discourage the use of fa) alcohol, (b) tobacco (c) opium derivatives (d) cannabis, (e) sedative drugs and (f) stimulant drugs. 
On 31st March this year, the Minister replied: 
The $300,000 allocated by the Government for drug education is being used for programmes approved by the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. These programmes do not relate to any particular drug or drugs and are, where possible, integrated within existing health education activities in the various States. 
This is the important part of the answer: 
These programmes are not designed to discourage the use of alcohol or tobacco. 
I repeat that the. Minister said that these programmes are not designed to discourage the use of those substances. What does the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse say in the appendix to its report at page 105? It states: 
The harm to the individual resulting from dependence on alcohol can be quantitatively greater than that caused by any other type of drug dependence. Alcohol impairs efficiency of thinking and psychomotor co-ordination, leading to deterioration in work performance and to accidents. Judgment deteriorates, leading to all sorts of errors in business and to disturbances of relations with other people. Conscious controls of behaviour are 'dissolved', with resulting exhibitionism, aggressiveness and assaultiveness. In addition, dependence on alcohol predisposes to and causes serious physical disease. The physical damage may be indirect, due to neglect of hygiene or to inaequate dietary intake and utilisation, with resultant deficiencies, for example, in vitamins, minerals and proteins. The most common serious complication of protracted alcoholism is fatty portal cirrhosis. Alcoholics are frequently injured because of impaired co-ordination and judgment. 
Damage to society is great. The alcoholic squanders his resources to obtain his beverage, his productivity declines, and his family may bo neglected to the extent that it has to be supported by society. Alcoholics are frequently involved in accidents, wilh property damage and injury to others. The economic burden of dependence on alcohol is enormous; even more important is the tremendous amount of human suffering endured by the. alcoholic and all who are close to him. 
What does the Minister say in reply to my question on drug education. He states that the programmes are not designed to discourage the use of alcohol. What a lovely proposition. Cannabis or marihuana is frequently introduced into discussion on the question of drug abuse. As 1 see it, it is not one of the most important drugs. I will not get into an argument with the honourable member for Herbert or anybody else on the question of the safety or otherwise of marihuana. I oppose the use of marihuana even though 1 accept the scientific evidence, which I feel the honourable member for Herbert has not looked at, from royal commisisons in Great Britain and Canada and from reports in the United States of America which show quite clearly that it is not as objectionable a drug from the medical point of view as are other drugs. 
The way to fight its use, to my mind, is surely through argument and education. It should be exposed by those who, like myself, see it as a lethal enemy of the intellectual community as well as those who, apparently like the honourable member for Herbert, have a more apocalyptic approach and see it as the lethal enemy of life itself. Whichever way the problem is looked at, I think it is an objectionable type of drug and I deplore it. Unlike  Dr Ribusch  of the Queensland Department of Health, who during the last few days has received some publicity for his comments on the question of marihuana because of a letter in the Medical Journal of Australia, I do not know of any doctors who use marihuana. But I join with the honourable member for. Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who sits next to me in deploring its use. To my mind, it is important to emphasise that it is like alcohol in the sense that it destroys people's drives. There is evidence that with marihuana and other cannabis derivatives, many young intelligent people with worthwhile criticisms to make of society and the ability to do something about them contract out of society and get happy on marihuana. To paraphrase Marx, in some case hallucinogents including marihuana become the religion of the young radical intellectual. I deplore this as a way of wasting the psychic energies of such people. 
Dealing with drugs in general - I am not now dealing with marihuana specifically - I do not think that treatment should be punishment. I think that all honourable members who have spoken so far have agreed on this. To some extent, I deplore the Minister's . attacks on the courts in this regard. I noticed that he has provided the honourable member for Herbert, who preceded me in this debate, with information along the same lines as his statement. It seems to be a sort of rehash of the statement. The Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse reported on this at page 77 of its report. It stated: 
After considering the evidence placed before it, the Committee believes that the approach to the drug taker should be one with emphasis on treating an illness rather than imposing a penalty for a wrong doing. The person who becomes dependent on drugs can be cured only by medical treatment and must be encouraged to seek it. 
The Committee quotes approvingly a witness who said: 
If one is trying to encourage people to seek help when they feel they are becoming over dependent on drugs, then the answer is hardly to threaten them with prosecution if they seek to make themselves known. That will only drive them to be more careful and hide from law enforcement agencies and so also hide from treatment agencies. Without the threat of prosecution, it would be much easier for family or friends to coax drug dependent individuals to seek treatment. 
I strongly support this because .the present proposition of a legal sanction of 2 years imprisonment is not really the answer. The Committee went further and I think the passage I shall read is important as it is a reply to the Minister. I repeat that this Select Committee, with a majority of members from the Government side of the Senate, having listened to the evidence, said: 
The Committee has been encouraged, both by the evidence directly submitted to it and by an examination of court records, to see that there appears to be a more humanitarian approach to the treatment of the young drug abuser appearing before the court. While quite obviously the law as it stands must be observed by the judiciary there are available discretionary powers such as the imposition of a bond as a deterrent to repetition of the offence. Further, the desirable trend in some courts is to encourage treatment or impose other probation conditions rather than prison sentences or fines. To the Committee this has two advantages the first being that the aim is treatment rather than penalties and secondly for the young experimenter the imposition of a bond does not have the serious repercussions on careers that a recorded conviction could have, lt seems to the Committee that a young person who succumbs to the pressure of peer groups or simply experiments perhaps for the first time and is caught, faces  a  double penalty when a conviction is recorded. A conviction can close certain professions and can quite seriously affect his prospects in many areas of employment for which he may be well qualified. 
I urge the honourable member for Herbert and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  - who, I understand, will follow me in this debate and will no doubt give forth in his usual eloquent manner about his knowledge of drugs and pornography, having studied them at first hand in the United States whilst allegedly attending the United Nations as an observer from this country - to contact some of their Senate colleagues who sat on this Committee such as  Senator Marriott, Senator Branson, Senator Buttfield, Senator Cavanagh, Senator Georges, Senator McManus, Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Wheeldon  and who made these recommendations. On the question of penalties, the Committee said that penalties should be sufficiently severe to deter the drug trafficker and drug pusher. I will get on to this in a moment. The Committee said further: 
. the futility of imprisoning the truly drug dependent person should be recognised and that every facility for his medical rehabilitation be afforded; only m extreme cases should a measure of compulsory treatment be enforced. 
I deplore the proposition to transfer drug cases from the jurisdiction of State legislation to Commonwealth legislation enforced by the Department of Customs and Excise. During the last week T received a letter from an eminent Queen's Counsel at the Sydney Bar who, amongst other things, in referring to this proposed legislation, makes this point: 
This needs to be carefully watched as it is an attempt to bring more drug cases under the Customs Department and out of the hands of Slate Police. Firstly the former are if possible more vicious than the latter and secondly it ls pretty hard to treat the offender as a sick person If his sickness consists in an Importation offence as distinct from a drug taking offence. 
I think it is an important point that it will not be terribly easy, as far as I can see, under this legislation to bring forward arguments on the question of a person being an addict and the necessity for treatment because after all this Bill is arguing that a person is being punished not for taking the substance but for importing it illegally. 
I think that part (a) of our amendment dealing with inadequate provisions on drug trafficking is just as important. I propose to move an amendment on this point later during the Committee stage, but I would like to deal with it very quickly now. We have a new definition of a traffickable quantity. This does not deal with pushers. The traffickable quantity as set out in the proposed Schedule means, as I see it, that basically if a person has between 20 and 25 doses in most cases he automatically becomes designated as a pusher or a trafficker unless he can prove the opposite, that he has not been dealing with it. This may be justifiable. I do not think it is. But surely even the Minister or other honourable members opposite cannot justify the opposite conclusion. What will happen now is that if a person is caught redhanded and admits to having sold 10 Pethedine tablets to a small child, a young school girl or, to to make it even more harrowing, a young pregnant school girl- 
-I thank the honourable member for Kennedy. Here we have objectionable position where, if a man introduces a person to the habit of drug taking and sells that person 10 Pethedine tablets, he cannot be treated as a pusher. He can be treated only under the first part of the legislation because, as honourable members know, the highest level of penalty specified in the proposed legislation is applicable only in respect of an offence which involves a quantity of a narcotic substance which, by reference to the proposed Schedule in clause 9 of the Bill, is a trafficable quantity. Is lt not ridiculous for the Minister to introduce into this House a Bill which provides that a person who is in possession of 25 Preludin tablets, because he is trying to lose weight by taking away his appetite, can be sent to gaol for 10 years because he has a trafficable quantity of Preludin tablets, although it is only enough to take away his appetite for a fortnight? But if the same person is caught redhanded handing over 10 Pethedine tablets or selling them to a young child he cannot be treated as a trafficker. Is this not a ridiculous proposition? It has come out of the Department of Customs and Excise after probably months and months of consideration. 
I put it to honourable members that what the Department has done in this case is to try to do some empire building. In some cases it is no doubt empire building pure and simple. I can see the people from the Department in the chamber looking worried and I have no doubt that they are advising the Minister to accept our amendment on this question. But at the same time I think it is deplorable for the Government to introduce legislation into this House which has not been thought through fully and which does not deal with what is obviously an important and extremely unpleasant problem in our sort of society. It therefore gives me great pleasure to second the amendment which asks the Government to withdraw this Bill and to redraft it so that it deals comprehensively with the question of drug trafficking and drug pushing and provides penalties severe enough to deter people who would commit these offences. Obviously these are not provided in this case. The legislation should deal with drug abuse and the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts based on the humanitarian approach recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. Obviously the Department has not read the report, just because the Committee did not come down on its side as far as its submissions were concerned. I urge the House and the Minister to accept the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. 
 I move: 
At the end of the definition of 'Narcotic substance' add 'and, for the purposes of this Act, includes a substance or thing the name of which is specified in column 1 of Schedule VII to this Act'. 
For the purpose of understanding the amendment honourable members must read also the third and fourth amendments which have been circulated and which, of course, really become part of the same amendment. If the first amendment is defeated then these other amendments become pointless. Honourable members will note that, in effect, what will happen if the amendment is carried is that it will eliminate or omit cannabinoids, cannabis and cannabis resin from Schedule VI and a Schedule VII will be inserted which will be tit:ed 'other drug substances' in which these 3 substances will appear. So, the only effect of the change will be to separate 3 substances from Schedule VI, insert them in a new Schedule VII and add them to the legislation. I think it is important for me to emphasise this. 
A report last Friday in the Sydney Daily Telegraph' - the paper you can trust - by one Alan Reid, who I assume will be dealt, with later in this session, made the point that there was some attempt to remove cannabinoids. cannabis and cannabis resin from the substances which will be dealt with in this Bill. It is important to point out that, of course, this would not happen. The people who would or could be prosecuted would still be liable to prosecution. The fines or the penalties which can be imposed would be exactly the same as if the substance remained in Schedule VI. The only reason for this amendment is to follow the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, which presented its report earlier this year. That Committee had a majority of Government members and its  chairman  was  Senator Marriott  from Tasmania. Recommendation No. 12, which appears on page 86 of the Committee's report, states: 
The existing controls classifying cannabis and heroin in (he same schedule of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs is unfortunate in that a widespread impression has been gained that they are classed as being of equal danger to users. If controls over cannabis were separated from those applicable to narcotic drugs (particularly heroin) further controversy may be avoided. 
Recommendation No. 13 referred to the fact that a more lenient approach should be adopted in the case of first offenders. Finally, recommendation No. 14 states: 
Therefore, the Committee believes that scientific evidence is not yet sufficiently conclusive to warrant, with safety to the public, the removal of existing restrictions on the use of any of the cannabis derivatives. 
Of course, the Opposition accepts this proposition. It is not prepared to remove restrictions on the use of cannabis and its derivatives. But what it does propose is that at meetings of the World Health Organisation Australia should advocate that a more reasonable proposition should be accepted, as far as the classification of drugs is concerned. 
I hope that honourable members opposite realise thai we are not in any way attempting to alter the penalties associated with the use of cannabis. I do not want honourable members opposite to get up and say that we are trying to remove the penalties. The penalties will remain exactly the same. The only change we propose is that there should be 2 Schedules in  I  he Bill - one dealing with narcotic substance and the other one dealing with other drug substances. I personally believe that that is in accordance wilh the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee. In fact, if the people with medical knowledge in the Department of Customs and Excise look at the proposed Schedule in the Bill entitled Narcotic Substances' they will no doubt see that many of the substances in that Schedule are not strictly narcotic substances. No doubt at some stage they will have to remove some of the substances into a second Schedule, because it is ridiculous to declare something to be something when it is not really that. It is like saying: You have been a chicken but you are now a fish', if in fact one is dealing with both the chicken and the fish in exactly the same way. I suggest to honourable members that it is reasonable to implement the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I do not know whether it is possible, but I would suggest to the Committee that amendments Nos (1), (3) and (4) could be dealt with simultaneously because they follow one another. If amendment No. (1) were accepted, amendments Nos (3) and (4) would have to be accepted also. If, on the other hand, amendment No. (1) were defeated, there would be no point in pursuing amendments Nos (3) and (4). 
Mt JACOBI (Hawker) (8.23)- I second the amendment, but I indicate at the outset that I do not believe it goes far enough. I believe that the title of the Bill, which refers to 'narcotic substances', is totally inadequate, it is inaccurate and, because of those things I believe that it ought to be amended, and I ask the Minister to give consideration to this question. The title of the Bill should be amended so that it reads a Bill for an Act 'To amend the Customs Act 1901-1971 in relation to Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances'. I should have thought that it would have been evident to the Government, and above all to the Minister, that one of the arguments which have developed over the last 12 months in relation to the legalisation of marihuana related to the question as to whether it is in fact scientifically a narcotic. The fact that the abuse of these substances can be as socially damaging as the abuse of true narcotics does not convince young people particularly. They reason scientifically. But it is valid to call cannabis, LSD, DMT, cocaine, amphetamines, etc, psychotropic substances. This is one of the reasons why the Act in South Australia has been renamed in order to provide for the clear distinction between opiates - that is narcotics - and other drugs of abuse. It is now clearly known as the Narcotic and Psychotropic Drug Act. The Governor in that State has the power to proclaim any substance that comes within the purview of that Act. 
The other reason why the name of the Act in South Australia has been changed is that the United Nations is promoting an International Agreement on Psychotropic Substances. This now means, in effect, that the Act in South Australia more clearly becomes a general instrument applicable validly to all drugs of abuse, and the previous apparent pharmacological inaccuracy in the possible grouping of LSD, say, with opium, cocaine and cannabis is avoided. It seems to me that this Government is tending to perpetuate the old inaccuracy by proclaiming even mushroom extracts - LSD, etc. - to he narcotics when scientifically they clearly are not, although they can be equally as dangerous. There is a failure to make this clear distinction, which is clearly acknowledged and defined in the recent report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, which states: 
The Single Convention as its name implies covers only the so called narcotic drugs and in the recognition that there are other drugs of dependence the member nations met during 1970 and 1971 and drew up a further Convention to impose controls on psychotropic substances such as hallucinogens, amphetamines, other central nervous system stimulants, barbiturates, tranquillisers and certain other sedatives. The Committee fully supports Australian participation in this Convention which is now available for signature. It suggests that the Commonwealth Government and State Governments take the necessary steps so that Australia can ratify the new Convention as soon as possible. In making this suggestion the Committee is aware of the 5 year delay which occurred between Australia's signature and ratification of the 1961 Convention. A similar delay would be intolerable, in the Committee'* view. 
The failure to make this clear distinction, in my view, discredits this whole piece of legislation in the eyes of many people, particularly those in the Government in South Australia who are fully conscious of other Acts and of the fact that there is an international acceptance of the distinction which is clearly made between narcotic and psychotropic substances. If the law is going to use a technical term such as narcotic, it needs to apply it only to drugs which actually are narcotic, and the law, to be technically and legally sound, must use another technical term for drugs of abuse which are not narcotic, and the international term for those drugs is psychotropic substances. 
This question must be made clear to people so that they recognise what is a scientific and indeed a legally adopted fact - that the law recognises differences in drug actions and is not trying to use a blanket term which is inaccurate. Of course, in addition the law also recognises the social dangers of these drugs as being parallel. In my view the blatant use of such inaccurate and incorrect title, terms or definitions in such an important piece of legislation leaves much to be desired, and the Minister, I am convinced, is fully conscious of the situation. What will flow from this situation are the arguments which will be conjured up by a great majority of the people - and on this aspect they will be totally justified - wilh the sole aim of discrediting and evading the law. In effect, the law becomes an instrument which will largely defeat the very aims which this Government seeks to achieve, that is, that the penalties for the use and possession of heroin should be the same as for marihuana. These people believe that there should be different penalties for different drugs. In order to substantiate my point - the Minister and the Government ought to be aware of it - 1 refer to the report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs which was presented to the First Special Session of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations in January 1970. Clause 2 (e) under the heading 'The Revised Draft Protocol on Psychotropic Substances' states: 
Psychotropic substance' means any substance, natural or synthetic, or any natural material listed in Schedule I, 11, III or IV. 
The Schedules clearly set out what are narcotic drugs and what are psychotropic substances. I now refer to the report of the International Narcotics Control Board on its work in 1970. At page 19 it states: 
There is mounting and widespread concern over the increasing misuse of drugs such as stimulants, depressants and hallucinogens, which affect the central nervous system. This feature of the general problem has engaged the close interest of the Board since the early sixties and in 196S it gave warning of the dangers which such misuse represents to public health. In the intervening 5 years the abuse of these substances has grown both in extent and complexity.  lt concludes by stating:  lt is clear that this sector of trade in dangerous substances is not amenable to the same pattern of control measures as were found appropriate in respect of narcotic substances. The provisions of the draft protocol have been framed in the light of this realisation. 
In other words, the Bill both in title and in definition ought to provide for 2 distinct areas, one with respect to narcotics and the other relating to psychotropic substances. 
I conclude on this point: The same problem arises here as arose with canna.binoids. The position in South Australia was exactly the same as the position that will exist under this Bill. Unless the Bill in fact provides scientifically and legally what we say the Bill should state - namely, 2 descriptions, narcotics and psychotropic drugs - it will not be possible in a prosecution before a court to obtain a reasonable judgment. I am very much afraid that this Bill for that prupose is totally inadequate. That was the situation in South Australia over the last 4 or 5 years. In that State what is now internationally accepted has been adopted. While the ratification of the convention has proceeded, at least Sou'.h Australia has looked ahead to see what has been the internationally accepted situation and it is tha: which, in my view, ought to be incorporated in this Bill. 
Summing up. 3 factors are involved with respect to this amendment. The States through their enactments to my knowledge have now adopted the 2 terms used internationally in the convention which Australia will ratify. We will find that we will need to make an alteration to the Bill in this respect. Finally, I refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I am convinced now that the Government has not given any consideration to that report or has failed to peruse the document. 
I should like to move the amendment that has been circulated in my name. I move: 
After paragraph (c) of proposed sub-section (1.), insert the following paragraph: (ca) where the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed consist of  a quantity of a narcotic substance (being the narcotic substance specified in the information, complaint, declaration, claim or indictment as the narcotic substance of which the goods consist) and where the court is satisfied that the offence was committed by the person charged for any purpose related to the sale of, or other commercial dealing in, the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed - a fine not exceeding Four thousand dollars or imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten years, or both a fine not exceeding that amount and imprisonment for a period not exceeding that period; or'. 
I hope that at least some honourable members opposite will have a look at it and listen to my proposition. For a change, it is not a proposition advanced on the question of civil liberties with which they are not usually concerned. But it is the sort of proposition that ought to be acceptable to such honourable members as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who claims to feel strongly about drug pushers. As I asked earlier this afternoon: What do we get in this proposed legislation? Weget a schedule of narcotic substances with a trafficable quantity. As the explanatory memorandum from the Minister states, we have  2  types of penalties, one not exceeding a fine of  $4,000  or imprisonment for a period not exceeding  10  years, and another of a fine not exceeding  $1,000  or imprisonment for  2  years, the intention being that the lower penalty will be for users and the higher penalty for pushers. But the question of defining pushers is not gone into properly by this legislation. 
The Bill proposes that the higher level of penalty - that is  10  years imprisonment and a  $4,000  fine - will be applicable only in respect of an offence which involves a quantity of a narcotic substance which, by reference to the proposed Schedule in clause  9  of the Bill, is a trafficable quantity. So we come to the position that unless a person is caught with a quantity equal to or in excess of a trafficable quantity he can be penalised only up to the point provided in what would be section  235 (1.)  (d). which is a fine of  $2,000  or imprisonment for a period not exceeding  2  years. I put to the House this afternoon, with the help of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  that if a person is caught redhanded and admits to having pushed  10  Pethedine tablets, this being a quantity less than the quantity provided as a trafficable quantity, and having sold that quantity to the blind, pregnant school girl to which the honourable member for Kennedy likes to refer so frequently in his speeches- 
Yes, a blind, crippled, pregnant school girl. But I think we should be serious about this, just the same. We are dealing here with a pedlar. Let us be quite clear about this. A person is caught red-handed selling  10  Pethedine tablets to a young person. If we regard this as the worst type of crime as far as pushing is concerned, and I think most of us would probably agree on that general proposition, under the proposed legislation that person can be penalised by imprisonment for  2  years only under section  235 (1.)  (d), yet if another person is in possession of  25  Preludin tablets - I referred this afternoon to Preludin tablets, the type which the honourable member for Kennedy takes but takes infrequently to decrease his appetite and this is only a sufficient quantity for him for a fortnight - he could be prosecuted and unless he could show reasonable cause, and I accept that proposition, he could be sent to gaol for10 years. I think he and everybody else would agree that this is a significant omission from this Bill.I am sure the people who drafted the Bill did not intend that a person who is a pusher of narcotic substances - any of the substances mentioned - but who at any one time has in his possession less than that trafficable quantity, should be subject only to the maximum penalty for using. If he is an intelligent pusher from now on he will carry with him just less than the trafficable quantity. I will be interested to hear the Minister's explanation for this. But the proposition I am putting to honourable members is that after paragraph (c) of the proposed sub-section  (1.)  we insert a paragraph (ca) which will read:  . . where the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed consists of a quantity of narcotic substance . . . and where the court is satisfied that the offence was committed by the person charged for any purpose related to the sale of, or other commercial dealing in, the narcotic goods in relation to which the offence was committed - a fine not exceeding Four thousand dollars or imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten years... 
The question of the trafficable quantity is omitted from the proposed amendment.If it can be proved that the person was in fact selling narcotics he can be dealt with, as I am sure it was originally intended in this Bill, under the provisions which deal with pushers. 1 will be interested to hear whether there can be any possible argument against accepting the amendment in this form or in some very similar form. 
I only wish that the few people in this country who still believe that the 'Daily Telegraph'  is  the newspaper you can trust had been in the chamber tonight to see the performance of their main witness and main leak in this House. I should like to address myself for only 2 or 3 minutes to some small parts of the evidence taken by the Privileges Committee. I refer to page 183 of  the  report of the Committee.  Mr Donald  Cameron asked  Mr McNicoll: 

 Mr McNicoll. your comment that there was no checking or anything of  that nature would imply that you would take  everything  that  Mr Reid  wrote for gospel? 

 Mr McNicoll replied: 
Iri a situation .such as this, relating to everything he wrote of what  is  happening in the House, yes. 
I refer to the next page of the report.  Mr Donald  Cameron asked: 
Would you regard the word  of  one person only as being a sufficient basis to take the facts  as  presented, or as alleged, as being correct? 

 Mr McNicoll replied: 
With somebody of  Mr Reid's  length of experience here, yes. 
It is interesting to note that  Mr McNicoll,  after appearing for some hours before the Committee, apparently gave the 'Daily Telegraph' a story headed 'Senators question Editor-in-chief. As I read the report last Friday, after the House rose, I thought that the original article was probably par for the course and why should we get all that excited about it? After all, Reid's stories in the  'Daily  Telegraph' about what is happening  here  arc nearly always wrong. I looked at the 'Daily Telegraph' for last Friday, 3rd December. There were 2 stories in it by Alan Reid. Honourable members will recall that he is the journalist whom McNicoll trusts completely and that is the reason why McNicoll will not apologise in the 'Daily Telegraph'. The first story is headed 'Liberals oppose pay rise, McMahon told'. This is an Alan Reid story. It reads: 
MPs were  convinced tonight  that the rises recommended were at  least  $3,000  a  year,  which  would lift their annual  salaries, to  $9,500. 
Alan Reid has been here for many years, so one should never question his stories. Yet last Friday he was unaware that our annual salary was and still is $9,500 a year and was not $6,500 at that time. The second story is slightly more than par for the course. It has 3 mistakes in it. It is headed 'ALP's new stand on marihuana'. It was written by Alan Reid. I will read the 3 paragraphs which are incorrect. He is talking about a Caucus meeting. The first incorrect paragraph of the article states: 
The ALP Caucus tonight overwhelmingly decided to seek to remove marihuana from the list of narcotic substances in the Customs Act dealing with narcotic substances. 
An argument used was that marihuana - or can- :nabis - was not addictive. 
That is not true. I mean that this argument was not used. The second' incorrect para* graph reads: 
Removal of cannabis would. take cannabis outside the range of penalties provided for in an amending Bill introduced in the House of Representatives by the Minister  for Customs  (Mr. Chipp).  
Those honourable members who were in the House last Thursday will realise that that certainly was not what the debate was about and that the article was completely wrong. The third incorrect paragraph states: 
Caucus also decided that magistrates should be given discretion to impose less than the arbitrary $1,000 fixed by  Mr Chipp's  Bill. 
Anybody who was here last Thursday would realise that the $1,00.0 had nothing to do with the legislation that dealt with narcotic substances. There was no minimum fixed in the legislation. So he was wrong 3 times in the one article. I am not surprised that he was wrong 3 times. On this occasian obviously it was not  Mr Irwin  who gave him the information, but somebody else gave him the information and he was still wrong. The important point to remember is that on that evening the same information was given to every other newspaper. Every other newspaper checked with people who were at the caucus meeting . and decided not to run the story because they realised that it was wrong. What did . Alan Reid do. He ran it, without checking with anybody on this side. This is the difference between a journalist who takes an interest in the proceedings of the House, and. ought to be trusted, and a journalist such as Alan Reid who will print anything that he thinks will damage the Labor Party. 1he. Committee has found that Alan Reid's story was wrong. The motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  includes this. The question is purely one as to the kind of punishment if any, if one could call it that, that should be imposed on the 'Daily Telegraph' and on the journalist concerned. I will nol go any further. If honourable members read the evidence, as no doubt most of them have, they will find that the reason for  Mr McNicoll's  decision not to apologise, as stated in the minutes, is that he has this complete faith and belief in Reid's reporting. That is the only reason why tonight I pointed to the 4 mistakes in Reid's stories on the one day. Three were mistakes which 1 think nobody in this House and nobody in the Press gallery would make. The other dealt with the salaries which we have been seeing for a considerable time. The 3 mistakes were not made by any other newspaper, although the same story was given to those newspapers. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! Does the Leader of the Opposition claim to have been misrepresented? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When may 1 expect an answer to question No. 3493 which i placed on the Notice Paper on 17th August 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has  the  Minister's attention been drawn to reported evidence  by  Detective Robert Maskiell of the Victorian Police Force Special Branch  that  this Branch kept files  on  at least 250,000 people. 
If so, did Detective Maskiell also claim that these people were aliens or people who come under notice through offences. 
Has  the  Commonwealth Government asked  the  Victorian Police Force Special Branch to keep  files  on aliens;  if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did his predecessor in reply to question No. 3441 (Hansard, 17th August 1971, page 188) refer to the cost of maintaining Australian forces in Vietnam in excess over normal costs of maintaining the forces in Australia. 
If so, what would have been the normal cost of maintaining these forces in Australia during- 
1967-68 
1968-69 
1969-70. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the proportion of days lost through (a) industrial disputes, (b) unemployment (registered) and (c) industrial accidents and compensable illnesses, compared with total days worked in Australia, in the latest year for which figures are available. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I realise that the information which I am seeking is very extensive and will not be immediately available, but I understand that it is now not possible for me to direct to you a question on notice. Would you please let me have the following details when it is possible for you to do so? 
Prior to the occupancy of any part of the new western wing extension to this building what was the total area of office accommodation in Parliament House? 
How much of the total office area was occupied by the House of Representatives and how was this divided up between (a) parliamentary office holders, (b) House of 
Representatives Ministers, (c) House of Representatives Ministers' staff, (d) private members and (e) clerical officers of the House of Representatives Department? 
Will you ascertain from the  President  of the Senate similar details showing how much of the total office area was occupied by the Senate and how this was divided up between (a) parliamentary office holders, (b) Senate Ministers, (c) Senate Ministers' staffs, (d) private senators and (e) clerical officers of the Senate Department? 
Can you say what is the average floor space occupied by (a) a House of Representatives Minister and (b) a private member of the House of Representatives? 
Will you obtain from the  President  of the Senate the corresponding details in respect of (a) a Senate Minister and (b) a private senator? 
Finally, is it possible for you to supply corresponding figures showing what the position will be when the western wing is fully occupied? I am sorry to have taken so long but, as you know, it is impossible for me to put this question on notice. That is why I have asked it now. 
I should like to deal tonight with the position around Alice Springs from the point of view of the voting in the last Legislative Council election and to draw some conclusions and make some suggestions about how the next Federal election ought to be run if it is to be run more fairly. Last Thursday an article by the Reverend Grierson, Associate Director of the Methodist Department of Christian Education in Victoria and Tasmania appeared in the 'Age'. That article dealt with alleged shortcomings in the conduct of the 1971 ballot in the Stuart electorate during the Legislative Council elections. I was in that electorate, I was associated with the ballot and 1 would like to give some further points on it. One of the points made by the Reverend Grierson is that Aborigines and others in outlying districts, which are defined as any places more than 5 miles from the nearest polling booth, are automatically supplied with a ballot paper in elections in the Northern Territory. This is different from the position in ordinary electorates as we all know, where a person has to make special application for a ballot paper. The correspondence is, of course, in English and the form is extremely complex. As the Reverend Grierson puts it, it would make the heart of an educated Australian sink; for the uneducated Aborigine it is incomprehensible. Reverend Grierson said: 
If the Aboriginal voter is on a station the postal votes may not be sent direct to him, but to the station owner, whose task it is to distribute the ballot paper to any Aborigine on his station registered to vote. Station owners in this case control the distribution of postal votes. 
I think this is wrong. We have available statutory declarations from a number of Aborigines but an insufficient number to put in a protest on the particular poll in the Stuart electorate showing that the Aborigines who were registered did not receive ballot papers or that they were held up somewhere on the way. Whilst I am not necessarily saying that a station owner did not distribute ballot papers it certainly makes it possible for station owners to do so, whichever Party they may belong to. It is not compulsory for Aborigines to register and there is no systematic registration campaign carried out by electoral officers although funds are allocated for this express purpose. Last night the 
Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  assured me privately that they would do so. I hope they will do so urgently and will not again give in to the Country Party who hope that people will not register. It is an offence at the present time for anyone else to canvass Aborigines to enrol as voters. I think this is wrong. What I personally object to is that there are alternative procedures. 
It would not be difficult for the methods successfully employed with indigenous tribes in Papua New Guinea to be adapted to Australian conditions. It is so easy to do this, to arrange for mobile polling booths to go around the stations and collect the votes from the people concerned. I do not know why the present complicated system of postal votes is used in the Stuart electorate, unless it is for the purpose of preventing Aborigines from voting. I think this is completely wrong. Pressure is also exerted on Aborigines on the stations. I have some evidence on this but I have not enough time tonight to disclose it because I want to mention another matter in regard to Alice Springs. But anybody who looks at the figures for places where there were polling booths and where there were official returning officers will see the facts. 1 do not wish to make any reflection on the returning officers. The facts will be clear from what I am saying. Where returning officers were present and the vast majority of people were Aboriginal voters we had the following results: at Hermannsburg we had 152 to 39 in favour of the Labor Party; at Papunya we had 82 to 22; at Santa Teresa we had 159 to 21. The votes were between 4 to 1 and nearly 8 to 1 in favour of the Labour Party in areas where the votes were collected by official returning officers appointed by this Government. 
What happened when the postal votes were sent out and given to Country Party station owners to distribute? We got a complete reversal in the votes. We got votes of 221 to 83 in favour of the Country Party representative. This by itself is not proof that the ballot has been tampered with, but I certainly suggest it could be taken to be so. The editorial in the 'Age' of 25th February states: 
If the practical disenfranchisement of many Territory Aborigines is a consequence of neglect and indifference, it is a disgrace. If it stems even  to some degree from deliberate discrimination, it is a major political scandal. Whatever the reason, it is no longer tolerable. 
I completely agree with that. Why do Aborigines when they get the chance vote for the Labor Party candidate? 
In a minute I will show you why they do. Let us have a look at Alice Springs. The Aboriginal infant mortality rate is over 200 per thousand children or about 10 times as high as the infant mortality rate for white children. The Legislative Council in the Northern Territory - not one of the most progressive organisations in this country - moved for a medical inquiry to be set up over a year ago but that board of inquiry has still not been appointed. The new Mount Gillen Hostel was opened on 5th February by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  allegedly to help Aboriginal mothers to learn about hygiene and also to assist with adequate accommodation for Aboriginal children who are convalescing. I will ignore the fact that this was a donation to  Sir Reginald  Ansett by this Government's taking over an old hostel which it was not possible any longer to use. When  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson opened the hostel on 5th February no Aboriginal leaders had been invited to attend although the whole point of this was to get the Aboriginal community involved. Not only the Aborigines in Alice Springs suffer from this. The Alice Springs hospital board has resigned because of complete frustration. I have discussed this matter with members of the hospital board, with medical superintendents, medical and other members of the hospital staff. 
What is happening there? There is an establishment of 11 medical officers which is much too low. There are some 225 beds. Nobody on the establishment is a physician. There is even nobody who has any medical expertise. It is taken that the person who is a junior or senior resident medical officer - in other words a person who has only been out of university training for one or two years - can deal with any medical disease, no matter how difficult it is, in Alice Springs. There is no pathologist at the present time, only a technician. There is no radiologist. There is no surgeon. The 
Alice Springs hospital depends on a surgeon supplied by the United States Pine Gap base, because when the Americans moved into Alice Springs they decided they could not put up with the sort of medical attention that was available to the other thousands of citizens in Alice Springs so they insisted on bringing out a surgeon. At the present time the surgeon for personal reasons has left Alice Springs for 2 or 3 months and there is now no surgeon in Alice Springs. Not only is there no physician but also there is no surgeon. There is no routine surgery performed. There is no anaesthetist in Alice Springs. The hospital has 225 beds. This is a shocking position. There are numerous cases of children who are extremely ill but there is only one paediatrician on the staff. 
As the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has just entered the House may I mention one matter in passing although I may not have sufficient time to finish it in this debate. On Monday I appeared in a federal court for a person charged with failing to register. Whilst I was waiting, another case came on in regard to an Italian who has a wife and 4 children and who has been in this country for 51/2 years. This man was employed at a Tooheys brewery. When he was leaving the brewery he was found to have 4 cans of beer in his case. He was charged by departmental officers with evading excise.  His  home was searched and 4 bottles of liqueur which he had made to celebrate the birth of his last child were found. He lost his job and was penalised with a fine of $124, even though the magistrate did not want to impose the fine; however, it was pointed out that that was the minimum fine which could be imposed. May I suggest to the Minister that there may be better ways of employing members of the Department's crime squad, or whatever you like to call it, than chasing some bloke who has pinched 4 cans of beer from Tooheys. The Minister repeatedly tells us that only about 10 per cent of the heroin, morphine, etc., that comes into this country is picked up. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respect tully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister Cor Social Services, upon notice: 
Is he now able to answer fully part (2) of question No. 4463 (Hansard, 10th November 1971, pages 3302-3) dealing with savings to his 
Department by treating psychiatric hospitals and their patients differently to other public hospitals and their patients. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What would be the estimated cost to the Health Department if the Government abolished distinctions between psychiatric and other hospitals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth provide a bed subsidy for patients in psychiatric hospitals. 
If not, (a) was a subsidy ever provided by the Commonwealth and (b) why is a distinction made between patients suffering with physical and psychiatric illnesses. 
May hospital funds insure citizens against the cost of in-patient care in psychiatric hospitals. 
How many patients were in Australian psychiatric hospitals on the latest date for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are patients in psychiatric hospitals insured against hospital fees when belonging to hospital funds. 
Does the Commonwealth Government provide (a) Commonwealth benefits for insured and uninsured patients in psychiatric hospitals, and (b) pay $5 a day for pensioners in (i) public hospitals, and (ii) psychiatric hospitals. 
Is the charge for patients in Sydney metropolitan psychiatric hospitals now over $10 per day, i.e. over $70 per week. 
What State-owned psychiatric hospitals are approved hospitals under the National Health Act. 
Did the scheme introduced by the Chifley Government make a distinction between psychiatric and other private hospitals in relation to bed subsidy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the cost of weekly family subscription to (a) the lowest rate medical benefit funds and (b) hospital funds at (i) public and (ii) inter- 
The proposed complex for Canberra's hospitals is intended, as the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  pointed out, to serve a number of hospitals in Canberra, some of which are in existence and some of which are about to come into existence. I refer to the Canberra Community Hospital, the Woden Valley Hospital, Calvary Hospital, Belconnen Hospital, and at a considerable time in the future, the Tuggeranong Hospital. I have examined the chart or appendix that accompanied the submission of the Commonwealth Department of Health. It deals with the number of hospitals in the region, and the number of beds and specialist beds available as related to the highest possible population increase in the Australian Capital Territory over the next 10 years. One wonders why other areas of Australia are not as fortunate. 
I am not criticising what is being done for Canberra. I think it is essential. I am arguing that there is a significant difference between the health services which will be provided in the Australian Capital Territory and the health services which are being provided in other areas of Australia. Let us look at some other areas where a similar rate of population growth is taking place. For example. I would say that the total population increase in the outer western suburbs of Sydney would be greater than that which has occurred in Canberra or that which is projected in the appendix. Why is Canberra so much better off? I suggest that one reason is that the people who have the power to grant the money for this capital expenditure are living in Canberra. The Ministers in this Government are living in Canberra and can see the need for these services. They have correctly decided that appropriate action should be taken. What is happening in my area? 
In view of some of the comments which I shall make later criticising this Government very strongly I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on standing firm on the question of a family unit tax and putting the blame completely on the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I think that some men weaker than the Prime Minister may have gone out of their way to protect the Treasurer with some feeling that they should stand by the Treasurer or maybe even communicate with him and find out what the Treasurer actually said on Monday night, but not the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister told us today during question time that he found out yesterday afternoon during question time what the Treasurer meant - some 18 hours after the Prime Minister had communicated with the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'. Not only do I wish to congratulate the Prime Minister but also I would like to congratulate the 
Treasurer for bis call for loyalty to the Prime Minister, lt can be seen in today's Press that at the Liberal Party meeting held yesterday the Treasurer called for loyalty to  Mr McMahon.  The article reads: 
The Prime Minister was the leader of a vigor  ous  Cabinet, better than any he had ever served in- 
I think the Treasurer should be congratulated because he did not behave like the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who when Minister for Defence, resigned in similar circumstances when the Prime Minister criticised him just because he was a member of the Cabinet. I think it is important to realise that our Prime Minister does not treat the Treasurer any differently than he would any backbencher or anybody else who contravenes the views of  Sir Frank  Packer. When  Sir Frank  Packer pointed out in an early edition of yesterday's 'Daily Telegraph' that the Prime Minister should deal with the Treasurer the Prime Minister contacted the Daily Telegraph' and the 'Daily Telegraph' was then able to say in a later edition that the Prime Minister revealed last night he had not been consulted about the speech and the editorial went on to say that he would be justified in taking strong action against  Mr Snedden. 
1 completely agree with you. I would like to take the remainder of my time to deal with the collapse of the Government's health scheme. 1 will not deal with what everybody knows about the fantastic increases in general practitioner fees that have been proposed especially in New South Wales. I would like to remind the House of a statement by the previous Prime Minister and by the present Prime Minister made only last week-end on how strongly the Government will deal with doctors who will not agree to the common fee system. Let us see what the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said in the Senate yesterday after announcing that an arbitrator had been appointed to determine fees. The Minister made the point that the Australian Medical Association did not agree to the appointment of a so-called arbitrator and that in fact the AMA did not have to co-operate as far as the arbitrator was concerned but when the arbitrator brings down his findings, which will involve an increase in payments some IS months before they are due, assurances will be sought from the AMA that there will be general observance of the fees so that they will, in fact, become the most common fees. Just to make clear what a strong Minister he is and what a strong Cabinet he belongs to I will read what he said. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government also has decided that if, after implementation of the arbitrator's finding, there is  a  failure by the medical profession to achieve a high level of observance of the common fees other measures will be considered.  1 think the Minister is being much too firm in his statement. I do not see how the doctors can possibly put up with that sort of threat. 
Let us see what is actually happening in regard to medical benefit funds under the health scheme of this Government. There is complete incompetence not only on the part of the present Minister for Health but also the previous Ministers for Health. In September last year I asked what was the cost of the lowest medical and hospital fund subscription as a percentage of the basic wage and also the minimum weekly wage in New South Wales from 1955 onwards. It took the Department of Health until 7th March to supply the answer. When I did not get an answer fairly quickly I worked it out myself last year in about 20 minutes and 1 incorporated the information in Hansard. I made the point at that time - I repeat it because it has been confirmed in the Minister's answer which took some 6 months to prepare - that subscriptions iti 1955 took 1.03 per cent of a person's basic wage and this has increased to 3.54 per cent in 1972 which means that  3i  times as big a proportion of the basic wage or the minimum weekly wage now goes to subscriptions if a person belongs to the lowest group of a medical and hospital fund. The contribution for a person who subscribes at the intermediate rate has increased from 1.44 per cent to 4.50 per cent of the mintmum wage. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  asked a question the other day as to what savings are expected from a reduction in the refund for pathology item 1276, which deals with automated biochemistry, from S 15 to $5. The reply given by the Minister was that this would save $850,000. That is very impressive; a saving of $10 per item means a reduction of $S50,000 in costs. But the honourable member for Perth also asked in the second part of his question how many claims for item 1276 were in fact paid in the last 12 months. The reply of the Minister was not 85,000 but that detailed information on the number of claims paid in the past 12 months on this item was not available. Obviously we are getting a very peculiar sort of response from the Department of Health. Let us have a look at the Minister's costing of the Labor Party's health scheme. I will not deal with the main section; I will just deal with one that has received a fair amount of publicity. The Labor Party at its Federal Conference in Launceston last year put up the very reasonable proposition that oral contraceptives prescribed by medical practitioners should be available on the pharmaceutical benefits list.' The Government decided within a few days that this would cost between S26m and $36m. How did it work this out? 1 would like to quote from the answer of the Minister about how he worked this out. He said:  lt is estimated that at present between 700,000 and 725,000 women are using oral contraceptives. lt has been assumed that 50 per cent of women in the 18 to 45-year age group who do not at present use oral contraceptives would use them if they were free and that those at present using them would continue to use them. On this basis it is estimated that a total of 1.535 million women would use ora! contraceptives if they were free. 
That means that another 820,000 women in Australia will use oral contraceptives if the Labor Party comes into government. This is the proposition of the Government. Either this is a complete lie - I suggest that it is - or if it is true it is surely the best reason for . putting the oral contraceptives on the pharmaceutical benefits list because, according to the Minister for Health, another 820,000 women in Australia would like to use oral contraceptives but at present are unable to do so because they cannot afford the pills as they are unavailable on the pharmaceutical benefits list. He ignores the question of the 27± per cent sales tax and so on. 
Le' me deal with answers to questions received yesterday. As I have previously pointed out in this House, there is no cover for psychiatric patients under the present health scheme. How many people in fact are in psychiatric hospitals at any one lime? According to an answer given to a question yesterday, the number is over 29,000. There are 77,000 beds in all approved hospitals in Australia but approximately only 75 per cent are occupied, which means that over 33 per cent of all patients in hospital at any one time, even though they may be insured for hospital benefits, are not covered by any hospital benefits at the present time under this Government. The Government claims that it has an effective health scheme. I appeal to the Government in the final few weeks or months of its existence, depending on how long the Cabinet can keep together, not to let the health scheme collapse completely because it will make it extremely difficult for us to establish ours quickly after the election if the present scheme collapses completely in the time that is left to the Government. More importantly, 1. suppose, though to some extent concurrently, it will be catastrophic for many of the low income earners in the community 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, before the statement was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  we had heard a typical speech from the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  an ex-member of the Legislative Council of South Australia. He considered the Legislative Council of South Australia to be too left for him and, therefore, he came into this place to represent the electorate of Angas.  His  speech was typical of the speeches of many other honourable members opposite who have absolute and complete contempt for the 75 per cent or 76 per cent of the Australian population who send their children to State schools and for another 20 per cent of the population who send their children to Catholic schools. 
But before dealing more specifically with that matter I should like to deal with the speech made by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  on Thursday, 9th March last. He was mouthing his usual inconsistencies - the sort of statements which are usually made by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  or by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  To some extent I was surprised that such statements should come from the honourable member for Chisholm, or perhaps I should say one should be surprised considering his background as a university teacher. Let us see what he said on 9th March. He was attacking the Australian Labor Party for being a Party which does not stand for belief in diversity. In other words, he believes that our Party stands for uniform opinion. He went on to say: 
It is at the very heart of our Party-- 
He was talking about the diversity in the Liberal Party - and it is what is missing in the Opposition because its members have no freedom to stand up in this or any other place and disagree with its policy. 
He then went on to say that he has that freedom. He said: 
It is a freedom we have and it is precisely the freedom that members of the Labor Party do not have. This issue illustrates the basic belief of the Liberal Party in the sort of education which Australians want ... 
He went on to speak in this way for a minute and a half, and then he reversed his whole position and he said: 
In recent times we have the spectacle of 3 leading spokesmen for the Australian Labor Party in this area making quite contrary statements. 
He then went on to make the same sort of statements which have been made in this debate by almost every other speaker on the Government side. He quoted and, to some extent, misquoted the speeches of members of the Labor Party. He concluded by saying: 
So we have the Labor Party in this area speaking with many voices. 
He does not see any inconsistency in this argument. On the one hand he claims that the Labor Party is a terribly authoritarian Party. On the other hand he says that apparently it speaks with 3 voices - some honourable members opposite have claimed that it speaks with 4 voices. In order to illustrate that there is a number of voices in the Labor Party I should like to disagree, to some extent, with some of the honourable members on our side who have spoken previously in this debate. Many have put the proposition that the Liberal-Country Party Government supports the Catholic education system for political purposes - to get the preferences of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, to get the votes of Catholics and so on. I think that there is probably some slight element of truth in that proposition, but I would point out that this is not really the basic proposition with which we are faced, so far as this Government is concerned. 
Basically, the Liberal-Country Party Government is much too anti-Catholic for that sort of proposition. It basically considers Catholics to be second-class citizens. It considers that they are not really the right sort of people, that they are not carried away by the Union Jack and the Queen to quite the extent which the Government believes people ought to be carried away. The reason for the Government's support of State aid for Catholic schools lately has been the belief that the non-Catholic elitist schools are absolutely necessary and need Government funds, and that the only way in which they can be given Government funds is by giving funds also to the Catholic schools. Of course, that is the reason why honourable members opposite will not accept the needs concept which we have been urging. This concept would in fact distribute money much more evenly or, to put another way, it would distribute money with much more justice and fairness to those schools which need money. If that happened the Catholic schools would get the lion's share of the money available for independent schools and the schools which honourable members opposite support would get little or none. 
Let us look at how many honourable members opposite or how many of their children have entered State secondary schools. Repeatedly surveys have been carried out, but never in the last few years have these surveys shown either that any Liberal Party Ministers have attended State secondary schools or that they have sent their children to State secondary schools, and I think that this is an important point to make. Firstly, they are not interested in State secondary schools and, secondly, they are not aware of what is going on in State secondary schools. Of course, basically they are anti-Catholic and waspish - with the WASP in capitals. Those honourable members who may doubt the proposition that they are WASPish should remember the answer which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave in this House on 8 th March last when the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  asked a question about certain people campaigning to change the design of the Australian flag and anthem. We heard the Prime Minister's answer to that question, and I have never seen so much fervour on the Government side. 
It was interesting to note the reference to patriotism in that question because whom it was directed against was quite clear to every honourable member in this House. It was no wonder that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  shuddered. The WASPS were in full flight. I suggest to those Catholics in our community who consider their Catholicism to be the most important part of their makeup and who probably, in a significant proportion of cases, vote for the Australian Democratic Labor Party in States such as Victoria, that they talk to some of the Liberal members of Parliament, to the Liberal Ministers, to the Malcolm Frasers, the Robert Menzies, the Malcolm Mackays, the David Fairbairns, the Geoff Gilleses, the Tony Staleys and the Jim Forbeses about parochial schools, or Ireland, or the monarchy, or a truly independent Australia with a new flag and a new anthem and see how much they have in common with those people. Let them then compare their general ethos with that of the Australian Labor Party. If, after all that, they still preferred a Liberal government, I would be very surprised. Personally, I am sure that a person such as  Mr Santamaria,  who as far as I am concerned is sometimes reasonable in some of his propositions, must often have great difficulty in accepting this WASP paternalism, which is all it amounts to. 
I turn now to the Opposition's amendment which deals with the proposition that there should be established an Australian schools commission to examine the needs of students in government and nongovernment primary, secondary and technical schools in order to make it possible to assist schools adequately. To my mind, the Minister for Education and Science has been fairly incompetent in this portfolio. I am not suggesting that he should be sent back to the Defence portfolio because people would accuse me of not being concerned about the defence of this country. Suggestions have been made that the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay),  the present Minister for the Navy, will become Minister for Education and Science. As far as I am concerned, he is too incompetent even to be Minister for the Navy, if one examines his recent statements in relation to grenades. 
Let us examine the attitude and the statements of the Minister for Education and Science. He spent a fair proportion of his speech on the second reading of this Bill, and he spends a large proportion of question time every day, attacking the South Australian Government and the South Australian Government's expenditure on education. On 5th October 1971 in this House  Mr Fraser  praised the Government's attitude in relation to the extra handout to the States, and pointed out how much extra money was being spent on education in the States. He made the point that South Australia had increased its budget allocation on primary and secondary education and teacher training by 30 per cent, and that it was the highest in Australia. That was the South Australian Labor Government which was probably introducing its first budget after gaining office. Expenditure in Queensland had increased by only 21 per cent, in New South Wales it had increased by 16 per cent and Victoria it had increased by 20 per cent. The increase of 1 6 per cent in New South Wales is not a true figure because when one examines the breakdown of this expenditure it is noticed that the per capita payments to students in independent schools, such as King's School, increased by 42 per cent and, in the primary schools, by 25 per cent. This is a much higher ratio than the 16 per cent average which means that the general increase in expenditure for State schools in New South Wales was well below 16 per cent. 
In the same speech, the Minister spoke about the report on the educational needs in the different States. He attacked that report on the basis that different States aimed for different class sizes and for different teacher-student ratios. What a preposterous proposition to come from this Minister; a Minister who tells us that the main point about private and independent education is that it enables different kinds of methods, class sizes and teacher-student ratios to be tried; who tells us that we do not know how teacher-student ratios and class sizes affect education, but that we must experiment and should not be uniform; who attacks the Labor Party for centralisation and uniformity but does not worry in the least about the much wider gap between teacher-student ratios in State and Catholic schools compared with the sorts of independent schools that he normally suports. He attacked the whole report on the basis of different States having different aims. 
Let us look at some of the things that the Minister is defending. Recently, the Minister for Education and Science, who suffers from foot in mouth disease, appeared on 'Monday Conference' at Macquarie University. He was asked by one of the questioners whether the proportion of Commonwealth scholarships for secondary students which was going to students at expensive private schools was not contrary to the whole aim of the scheme. He admitted that in 1964  Mr Menzies,  when introducing the legislation, had said it was hoped that it would make it possible for some students to stay at school who might otherwise not be able to do so. In other words, even  Mr Menzies  realised that there were people in our community whose financial circumstances were preventing them keeping their children at school. What was the Minister's reply at that 'Monday Conference'? He said: 
Now whether you like it or not it's a fact of life that all the parents who send - or mostly all, anyway - who send their kids to private schools have got a concern for education . . . they've got a concern for education and they will therefore encourage their children to stay nl school as long as possible. 
The Minister then went on to attack the 75 per cent of parents who send their children to State schools. The Minister continued: 
When you come to the State schools, the Government schools, unfortunately there are still some families who don't give their children- 
Then, as he said only some families he corrected himself - perhaps much too large a proportion of families- that is, whose children attend State schools - who don't give their children the encouragement in the home environment which helps them, or encourages them to stay at school as long as possible. 
He completely ignored the proposition that there are people in our community who cannot afford to keep their children at school until they are 18 or 19 years of age. 
The Minister insulted the vast majority of parents. He insulted a large number of parents of children in both Catholic schools and government schools because less than 30 per cent are able to keep their children at school until matriculation. This compares with the 80 per cent and 90 per cent of parents who are well able to keep their children at the private schools which the Minister always defends and supports. 
I recently asked a question about the proportion of Commonwealth secondary scholarship winners in the outer western suburbs of Sydney and I have received a reply. What happened at King's School at Parramatta, the school which put on a fete to raise money for the present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)?  Twenty nine of the 129 students in 4th year won Commonwealth secondary scholarships in 1971. What happened at Cerdon College, Merrylands, which is the Catholic school in the area? Two students of the 130 in 4th year won Commonwealth secondary scholarships, one fifteenth of the number awarded to students at King's School. What happened at Fairfield Boys' High School? Two students out of 150 won Commonwealth scholarships, which is a lesser proportion still. However, the Minister is not concerned and I am sure that most of the members on the Government side are not concerned. 
Recently, the Australian Council for Educational Research brought out a paper entitled 'Some effects of winning a Commonwealth Secondary Scholarship Award'. This was sponsored by the Minister's own Department. There is an acknowledgment to his Department that this study was made possible by special grant from the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science for research into aspects of the Commonwealth secondary scholarships examination. One would have thought that if his own Department sponsored a report he would at least read it even if he did not take any notice of it. At page 30 of that report the implications of the study are set out as follows: 
While 17 per cent of parents of CSS award winners in the Brisbane sample, 13 per cent in the Sydney sample, and 14 per cent in the Melbourne sample reported that the award was a big help' financially, it appears that the award itself was crucial in keeping only (at the most) 1 per cent of the Brisbane sample, 7 per cent .of the Sydney sample, and 4 per cent of the Melbourne sample at school for the purpose of completing secondary education. 
Therefore, whatever need there may have been in 1963-64 to provide scholarships of this kind' to keep children at school, it appears that, except for a very small proportion of the students represented by this study, this is no longer necessary. 
The report goes on to say: 
There appear to be reasonable grounds therefore for suggesting that a more effective use of the funds at present devoted to the scholarships might be either in adding to the number of tertiarylevel awards, or in using some form of means test to ensure that awards at the secondary school level go to families likely to be in real need. 
This is exactly the proposition that the Labor Party is and has been putting up right throughout in its policy on education. This is obviously a policy which has the support of the Minister's Department and the people who do research for his Department. It is a policy that is so terribly obvious that I can well understand that the staff of his Department is looking forward to November 1972 when there will be a new Minister for Education and Science and a government which will have some sensitivity about and some understanding of the real needs of the Australian population in an Australian education system. We hear the Minister and honourable members on the other side repeatedly claiming that there is no method of identifying deprived schools or schools which need money, but what do we find in' the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts? At page 57 of the report on the Commonwealth's Role in Teacher Education the Committee defines a deprived school as being a school in the inner urban or rural areas providing primary education, in which a high proportion of the school population is disadvantaged through background and/or environment. The Committee recommended that financial aid be given to the States to permit the recognition of such schools as special schools warranting a more liberal scale in staffing, equipping and servicing. The Committee was unanimous on that recommendation. Even Government supporters on that Committee were persuaded that it was possible to identify deprived schools. But the Minister for Education and Science, who was brought up at Melbourne Grammar or Geelong Grammar, has never talked for any length of time to anybody who did not go to such a school. He is not interested in parents who send their children to deprived schools. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
We have just heard from an expert on breeding who imports French stallions into this country. I want to illustrate how ridiculous is this provision in the Bill. A week ago I had representations made to me by a gentleman aged 25 years who arrived in this country at the age of 5 years. When he was 10 years old his parents were naturalised. At the age of 1 8 years he joined the Public Service and assumed that he had Australian citizenship. He worked first for the New South Wales Public Service and later for the Commonwealth Public Service, or vice versa. He attended law school. His name has been on the electoral roll and he has voted at two or three elections. He is ready to be called to the Bar, as the saying is, having gained his law degree with the intention of becoming a lawyer for the Commonwealth Government. 
Suddenly the New South Wales Supreme Court has insisted on his presenting a certificate of naturalisation or other certificate to show that he is a British subject. He looked at his father's certificate of naturalisation and it has turned out that he, the son, was not included on it. For all this time he has thought that he was a British citizen. No doubt, under this legislation, he could have worked for the Commonwealth Public Service as a teacher. He has now found out that he is not a British citizen. 1 checked with the Department of Immigration and found that his name was included on the application for naturalisation, but due to a clerical error he was not naturalised and is not a British subject. 
What a silly distinction to make between that person and a person whose name was included on a naturalisation form.  His  livelihood could depend on that particular distinction. lt seems quite ridiculous to me, having in mind that a large proportion of Australia's population, notwithstanding the views of the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes),  were not born in this country or in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, they feel that they are just as entitled to work, teach, practice law or whatever is appropriate in this country. I strongly support the amendment. 
I think we can judge immediately how far we can trust the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and how much reliance we can put on his word by the fact that he finished his speech with the proposition that within the next few weeks he will introduce a certain piece of legislation into this House. For the last 2 days the blue daily programme which is circulated has had listed on it, no doubt with the connivance of this Minister, this so-called honest man, this item: 
Social Services Bill . . .  Mr Wentworth  , . to present Bill. First reading. Second reading to be moved. 
For 2 days in a row this has appeared in the official notice paper that is printed. Yet the Minister tells us that it will be some weeks before he will present this Bill. If it was not for the fact that this is Parliament, I would call him a liar. 
I will withdraw the word 'liar', but he has certainly been completely untruthful in what he does with regard to the notice paper. 
Why does the Minister put it on the notice paper every day? 
The Minister has been completely untruthful. I would like to reiterate the word 'untruthful'. I am not prepared to accept the proposition that the Minister can list a Bill under Government business 2 days in a row when he knows he has not a Bill to proceed with. It is quite ridiculous. These notifications have appeared on both the white notice paper and the blue daily programme. If it was not for your suggestion this morning,  Mr Speaker,  that we should not become persona], I would have referred to the Minister as being paranoid. 
This programme of proposed business is issued for the general guidance of Members. It is not  a  formal document and the business listed is subject to change. 
I am not anticipating it.  Mr Speaker,  you may recall that the Minister referred to the fact that it will take him some weeks to introduce this piece of legislation. 
So was the Minister, I take it,  Mr Speaker. 
This Bill, which the Opposition has introduced today, deals with the portability of pensions and expresses the Labor Party's point of view which is that it supports the principle that no Australian citizen should be disqualified from receiving social service pensions because of residence abroad. It is as simple as that, but the Minister does not seem to be able to follow it. The Minister and the Government which he represents have a complete contempt for immigrants. What they want is people coming to Australia, doing the hard work, taking the labouring jobs, doing the dirty work, keeping quiet and voting for the Liberal Party. Last night we had a proposition from the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  and the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  in which they suggested that foreigners - in other words, people who have not been born here - should not be allowed to become teachers. It would be all right for them to be labourers doing all the dirty jobs but not to be teachers. I think this is the basis on which the whole of the legislation of this Government is based. 
Liberals do not care where immigrants come from as long as they do the labouring work. It is not surprising that the Minister for Social Services has had this attitude for many years. I should like to make a number of points in reply to what the Minister said. He referred to specific contact having been made with 13 countries. As I understand it this specific contact with 13 countries was by way of sending a letter containing the public relations handout of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 30th January of this year. This handout was sent to 13 embassies in Australia. If that can be called contact one might as well send them a copy of the newspapers. I do not call it contact for the purpose of establishing any sort of reciprocal legislation. To me the important point is why do we need reciprocal agreements. On the basis of requiring a reciprocal agreement the Minister is frying to get out of the promise to grant pensions to people leaving Australia who are eligible for pensions and who want to live somewhere else for a period of time. 
What is the necessity for that sort of reciprocal agreement? How does it help Australia? The Minister talks big about reciprocity with Germany, but the question of reciprocity with Germany does not arise. The German Government pays pensions to German citizens living in Australia. The Australian Labor Party proposes paying pensions to Australian citizens living in Germany. The question of whether they become naturalised in Germany or in Australia is not relevant to this point. 
The question of whether we have reciprocity with Malta is completely irrelevant. Male Maltese citizens who are eligible for the pension in Malta now receive, I understand, something of the order of $6.50 a week when they come to Australia. After they have been here for 10 years and apply for the age pension in Australia, if they are eligible for it they will receive it notwithstanding the fact that they are receiving $6.50 from the Maltese Govern-, ment, because that is just regarded as part of their income which is subject to the means test. Even the rather pitiful means test applied by this Government does not exclude a person from the pension if he is receiving $6.50 a week. So where is the relevance of the reciprocal agreement? 1 challenge the Minister, or any Government supporter who is to follow, to explain to me where this question of reciprocity comes in. It is a way of getting out of it and I hope, in a few minutes, to illustrate just what people from other countries think about it. 
No cost is involved. Of course it is not necessary for me to go into great detail on this aspect because the Prime Minister's handout of 30th January included the following statement: 
While the spokesman for  Mr Wentworth  said he had 'no idea' of the numbers of people who would classify for Australian pensions overseas, he said the new scheme would cost Australia 'virtually nothing*. 
This was because the Government had to pay pensions for people living in Australia. In addition it had to pay for postal, transport and other pensioners' concessions. 
The spokesman said that in fact the new scheme could result in a 'net saving' for the Government. 
The question of cost does not arise. The question of the total amount of money to be paid overseas also is minimal. The Government talks continually about having excess foreign funds. The total amount of money likely to be involved in granting portability of pensions is extremely small. I have figures relating to the United States of America which is a country comparable with Australia. If anything it would have more old age pensioners who had originated overseas because America's main period of immigration was in the early part of the 20th century and many of the people who migrated to the United States then have now become eligible for the old age pension. In the United States only about 0.8 per cent of all the benefits for retired migrants are paid overseas. This amounted to $US17m in 1969 out of a total payment of more than $US2,160m. Of almost 13 million pensioners only 108,000 lived abroad. 
I have dealt with the question of cost and the question of foreign exchange. I have referred to the number of people who may leave Australia. Let us examine what the Minister has done. Let us consider how he has behaved in discussions and in moves to get this sort of legislation before the House, even before he had to go through the pretence that he had a piece of legislation ready. A meeting was called by the United Council of Immigrants in the Paddington Town Hall on 23rd January 1972. Invitations were sent out more than 2 months before that meeting. Invitations were sent to  Mr Wentworth,  the Minister for Social Services,  Mr Bury,  who represents the electorate in which the meeting was held,  Senator Kane  and  Mr Whitlam. Mr Whitlam  was overseas and he asked me to attend that meeting.  Senator Kane  attended it.  Mr Bury  and  Mr Wentworth  did not attend. They sent apologies, but in the 2 months in which they could have arranged for somebody to stand in for them they were unable to get anyone to attend this meeting of the United Council of Immigrants. The Minister for Social Services normally is the sort of person who loves to go to meetings organised by the groups involved in the United Council of Immigrants. These groups include the Central Council of Croation Associations in Australia, the Italian Welfare Centre of Sydney, the Netherlands Society of Sydney, the Estonian Society in Sydney, the Hungarian Council of 
New South Wales, the Maltese Community of New South Wales, the Latvian Community in Sydney, the Lithuanian Commmunity in Sydney, the Association of Australian Slovacs, the Swiss Club of New South Wales, the Ukrainian Society of New South Wales- 
-I am referring to the people who have asked us to introduce this legislation. 
Exactly. Another group was the Federal Council of Polish Associations. Al! of these organisations sought a meeting at which they could ask the Government and the Opposition to support the sort of legislation that we have introduced today. They urged strongly upon us attendance at the meeting, but what happened to the Minister? He was unable to attend. He is happy to go to such meetings to rant about the Labor Party and the Soviet Union but be is not prepared to send a substitute. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor), Senator Fitzgerald  and  Senator Mulvihill  were prepared to go to this meeting and speak. It was an excellent meeting. A lengthy resolution was carried. Basically it asked for the sort of legislation that we have introduced today. 'La Fiamma', the Italian newspaper, presented a petition bearing more than 73,000 signatures. It asked for the sort of proposition we have put forward. Let us consider what the United Council of Immigrants has said relevant to the sort of legislation that we have introduced and the criticisms it has made of the proposed legislation of the Government. In a letter to  Mr Wentworth  the Council said:   . . from the Prime Minister's announcement and from your own statements to the Press, we have noted that a transferability of Commonwealth pensions overseas is going to be made conditional upon the conclusion of reciprocal agreements with other foreign governments. 
In our opinion such a policy would be partly unsatisfactory for several reasons. 
The Council makes a number of points about people possibly wanting to go to live with their relatives in countries which are unlikely to have agreements with Australia. In some cases they would be residing in countries behind the Iron Curtain where it is unlikely that Australia would be able to achieve any sort of agreement. I refer now to the 'Maltese Herald', one of the major newspapers of the Maltese community in Australia. On 23rd February it published an open letter to the Prime Minister. It was headed: '20 Years is Too Long', and stated: 
Whilst the Maltese, migrant is pleased with our latest offer, we cannot understand aspects of your proposed legislation. For as many years as we can remember the Maltese had to complete a 10- year residential qualifying period before being eligible for the old age pension. Although it made a mockery out of the Australian citizenship requirements and rendered Australian citizenship of no value to the Maltese, we accepted this qualifying period of 10 years for want of a better plan. 
Now that your Liberal Government has agreed to the transferability of pensions, you had to spoil the whole effect of your gesture by declaring a 20-year residential qualifying period. This is not accepted by the Maltese community as we feel it is a retrogressive step rather than a concession. 
The letter continued: 
The migrants of Australia, especially the 100,000-strong Maltese community, will be watching your government on this just and reasonable request. The Australian Labor Party has already promised to retain the status quo. 
The Australian Labor Party is doing this by this piece of legislation. The letter concluded: 
Finally, the Maltese will be waiting patiently until Polling Day to cast our votes in this, the most vital election for your government. 
La Fiamma', the Italian newspaper which circulated the petition I mentioned earlier and collected over 73,000 signatures, published an article which, when translated, basically makes the point that McMahon takes away with his left hand what he gives with his right; he grants allegedly a pension but insists on a 20-year residency. It instances a person of 70 who has resided here for 17 years and then wants to return to Italy for some serious reason - perhaps because he or his wife is dying - and asks: What will happen to them? They will be told that they have to wait for 3 years more to gain the benefits provided by this kind government. There are not only people who want to leave after they become eligible for the old age pension, for emotional reasons such as ties with their countries of origin. There are also those who realise that it is extremely expensive, and almost impossible on the old age pension, to live in this country whilst the same amount of money paid in Malta, Italy, Greece, Spain or a number of other countries would be significant and would make it possible for them to live at a reasonable standard. 
This Government is not in the least interested in this aspect. It insists on a 20- year period of qualification, the only reason being that it could not get out of giving something. It is the most grudging proposition that anybody has ever put up, as the Leader of the Opposition put it so well earlier. I challenge the Minister for Social Services to explain to this House why it is necessary to insist on reciprocal arrangements. Why is it necessary to go through the pretence of working out treaties with other countries for the purpose of granting Australian citizens a right to their pensions? Australian citizens who receive superannuation or other types of pension are now entitled to receive those pensions overseas; why not citizens who receive old age pensions? I will conclude at this stage because 2 other members want to make contributions to this debate. 
asked the Minister repsenting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Why were no Aboriginal leaders invited to the Minister's opening of the Alice Springs Child Health Unit at the old Mount Gillen Motel on 7th February 1972. 
Is it a fact that the unit will be used for convalescent Aboriginal children and to teach modern child nutrition to Aboriginal mothers. 
Is it considered unnecessary to involve the Aboriginal community in the running of the unit 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. 
Who are the constituent bodies. 
From where does it receive its finance. 
What are its stated aims. 
Does it participate in party political election campaigns. 
Does it receive funds from registered benefit organisations. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health who was previously the Minister for Health. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a statement by  Mr Jago,  the New South Wales Minister of Health, in the Legislative Assembly - I shall paraphrase the statement - that many people might not know that though belonging to a voluntary health insurance scheme they were not covered if they were in a psychiatric hospital; the State Government, therefore, was not developing any more psychiatric hospitals; it was developing psychiatric wards in public hospitals in order to make the patients in those wards eligible for Commonwealth subsidy. Is the Minister satisfied with the position under the Government's health scheme in which the financial treatment of psychiatric patients depends on whether they are admitted to psychiatric wards of public hospitals or psychiatric wards of psychiatric hospitals? When will the Government accept the recommendation made to the Commonwealth in 1968 by the State Health Ministers, who said that there was no justification for discrimination between the physically ill and the mentally ill in relation to health and welfare benefits? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many applications under section 46 of (he Australian Capital Territory Pharmacy Ordinance to permit the advertising of contraceptives have been received during  each  of thelast 5 years. 
When was the last application received. 
How many of these applications were granted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Family Expenditure Survey carried out in Great Britain on an annual sample of 10,000 households since 1957. 
Can he say whether Great Britain has begun recently a continuous General Household Survey carried out by the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys for the Central Statistical Office with the aim of providing a regular picture of changing social conditions to help the formation and discussion of social policies. 
If not, will he obtain information in relation to these surveys. 
Will he discuss urgently with the relevant departments the establishment of similar surveys in Australia to enable governments and others to propose or introduce more meaningful social policies. 
I wish to congratulate 2 people - firstly, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and, secondly, you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for reversing your attitude during the debate today from that of about 2 weeks ago when during the debate on a recommendation from the Joint Committee on Public Works, I tried to compare the expenditure on hospital services in the Australian Capital Territory with the provision of hospital services in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. I am pleased that today you are of the opinion that it is relevant to the discussion of these questions 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Government decided to take in relation to financial support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities since answers to questions No. 3494 (Hansard, 16th September 1971, page 1499) and No. 3496 (Hansard, 25th August 1971, page 743). 
Can he say which governments have so far indicated that they will contribute financially to this Fund. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many persons have been prosecuted under Section 48 of the National Service Act 1951- 1971 for failing to register in each of the last 10 years. 
When his Department discovers failure to register, is prosecution automatic or selective. 
If it is selective (a) who makes the decision and (b) on what basis is a decision made. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Labour Department in the United States of America releases figures of jobless rates for many groups in the labour force such as teenagers, adult men, married men, adult women, married women, black workers and white workers. 
If so, could his Department supply a similar break-down of figures including migrants as a statistical group. 
 Mr. Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of the discussion of a matter of public impor tance dealing with the Vietnam moratorium movement, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  who now is not in the House, made the allegation that I, as a member of the Australian Labor Party, now subscribed to a policy which, to quote his words, 'calls for an end to the Australian-United States alliance'. I should like to cite the policy of the Australian Labor Party- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: 
That Government Business be called on. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are oral or other contraceptives ever provided free or below cost by the social welfare or other branches of his Department in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; if so, what is the estimated cost. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will officers of the Commonwealth Electoral Office tour the Northern Territory in August and September 1972 to inform Aborigines of their right to enrol for the Electoral Division of the Northern Territory. 
If so, (a) is the tour being delayed until the next financial year for economic reasons and (b) what is the estimated cost of the tour. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition from certain residents of the western suburbs in the Sydney Metropolitan area and surrounding districts respectfully showeth: 
That due to an expanding passenger air travel business together with larger and more powerful jet aircraft, aircraft noise has already become a serious problem for people living in the vicinity of airports. 
That jet aircraft operations have a detrimental effect by way of air and noise pollution on the environment and airports should be situated so as to preserve the environment of populated areas. 
That protest should be made against the proposal to establish an internal airport at Richmond owing to the detrimental effect it would have for the environment there and in surrounding districts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government does not proceed with the proposal to site the second, twenty four hour international airport for Sydney at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs for the metropolitan area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Armitage  and  Mr Luchetti. 
Petitions severally received. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What is the estimated total personal taxable income for 1971-72. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition from certain residents of the western suburbs in the Sydney Metropolitan area and surrounding districts respectfully showeth: 
That due to an expanding passenger air travel business together with larger and more powerful jet aircraft, aircraft noise has already become a serious problem for people living  in  the vicinity of airports. 
That jet aircraft operations have a detrimental effect by way of air and noise pollution on the environment and airports should be situated so as to preserve the environment of populated areas. 
That protest should be made against the proposal to establish an international airport at Richmond owing to the detrimental effect it would have for the environment there and in surrounding districts. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this House take appropriate steps to ensure that the Government does not proceed with the proposal to site the second, twenty four hour international airport for Sydney at Richmond or anywhere else in the far western suburbs of the metropolitan area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Armitage,  and was received and read. A similar petition was presented by  Mr Luchetti. 
Petition received. 
Arising out of the personal explanation made by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  I would like to claim credit for the interjection. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What action has the Government decided to take in relation to financial support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities since his answers to my questions No. 3496 (Hansard, 25 August 1971, page 743) and No. 3494 (Hansard, 16 September 1971, page 1499). 
If a decision has been made, what are the reasons for the decision. 
Before dealing with the subject matter of the debate I would like to reply to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  who made another one of his wild statements during which he looks vaguely across the chamber and cannot remember the names of any of the honourable members sitting opposite him. He mentioned my name and suggested that I have jeered at the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  or the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  This is not so. I have had very little contact with the right honourable member for Melbourne. I have served with the honourable member for Grayndler on the immigration committee of the Australian Labor Party and I can assure the House that there has never been any division between us on that committee on any issue. 
Firstly, I want to deal with what was said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who made a ridiculous and racist speech in the House today. He put up the proposition that violence inside any country is due to coloured people. I would like to remind him of the position in Ireland, in Belgium and on occasions in Canada. There is no question of violence in these countries being due to people of different colours. I am pleased indeed that the Minister will not become a member of the High Court of Australia. The Government will not appoint him to that office just before an election because it is not game to have a by-election before this takes place. If the Minister were in the United States of America his sort of racist attitude would prevent his appointment to the Supreme Court of that country. I hope that in the long run this will be the case in this country also and that people with these sorts of attitudes will not be entitled to be appointed to the High Court. But it is not surprising, because  Mr Robert  S. Clark - who runs one of the most racist organisations in this country, the Immigration Control Association, and who mainly specialises in helping the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  to beat  Mr St  John for representation in this Parliament - is a prominent member of the Liberal Party in the electorate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and one of his most prominent helpers. The Labor Party does not want to import violence into this country. The Labor Party has stated quite clearly in its policy on immigration that one of the points to be taken into consideration is whether any frictions will arise. 
Let me deal with the other points that have been raised in this debate. One of them related to the Croatian movement, the Ustashi. I preface my remarks by saying that Labor as a whole has more sympathy than the Government has for independence movements, whether they be independence movements in Ireland, in Scotland, in Yugoslavia or in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Yes, and for the independence of the South Vietnamese. We certainly believe that the people there are entitled to decide their form of government, just the same as anyone else is. Honourable members on the Government side have a very selective way of deciding who has the right to choose their form of Government. They want independence movements for countries and for peoples, as we do, who feel that they are being oppressed by the USSR or by the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia but they do not support independence movements in other countries. They do not realise that there are people all over the world in all kind of countries who want independence and who want to have a say in their way of life. As far as the Croatians are concerned, obviously 1 oppose and we all oppose the sort of violence that has been associated with the extremist group to which the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred. He suggested there were 100 of them - there may be more of them - who support that sort of proposition. But surely we all are opposed to this. But at the same time we all understand that the Croatians as a whole feel that they have some son of grievance. 
I am not one who is extremely nationalistic. I do not consider that being described as being cosmopolitan, as the Minister for Immigration described certain members of the Opposition - if that means not being extremely nationalistic - is an insult as the Minister and the Russians do. I do not suggest that the Croatians over there who oppose the government in Yugoslavia are necessarily all fascists, any more than I accept the proposition which is often put by honourable members opposite that anybody who opposes this Government is automatically a communist. In one case some will be fascist and in the other case some will be communist, but the vast majority will not be. What we have to be concerned about is to eliminate violence and to make sure that the people who live in this country rely on legitimate political activity to bring about their point of view. My worry about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is that it is politically naive. Its members may be good policemen in the sense of obtaining facts, following people and finding out what type of movements and meetings certain people have attended. But I strongly doubt their ability to assess the political significance of particular movements and particular meetings. 
The important point, surely, is to separate those who will carry out only legitimate political activtiy - whether it be antigovernment activity or activity of another sort - from those who propose to use or might at some time use violence. It is important to eliminate those who would use violence. To my mind it is an extreme waste of money, time and resources to photograph pensioners when they are demonstrating outside this Parliament House. That is what our security service is doing. The Government may well be embarrassed by pensioners demonstrating out there, but surely nobody would suggest that they are potentially violent. I urge the Government to have another look at the way the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is administered and to realise what a security service is for so that it protects the people of the country but does not prevent people who have legitimate grievances from expressing those grievances. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time allotted for precedence of general business has expired. The honourable member for Prospect will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumed debate will be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
During the negotiations with the Australian Medical Association earlier this year, were figures produced by the Government giving increases in medical practitioners incomes for the different States and Australia from the December quarter of 1969 to the December quarter of 1970. 
If so, will the Minister supply figures for the period from 1st July 1968 to date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the cost to the Department of Health of administering (a) hospital benefits and (b) medical benefits in 1970-71. 
What is the estimated cost in 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the cost of administering the pensioner medical service in 1970-71. 
What is the estimated cost for 1971-72. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister who is representing the Treasurer in his absence. I refer to the Treasurer's announcement on 12th April dealing with section 26a of the taxation Act to the effect that from that date shares, whether listed on a stock exchange or not, held for 18 months can be sold without the resulting profit being taxed. It has been claimed that a property speculator can now form a company to buy speculative land and after 18 months can sell his shares in the company, and thus his interest in the land too, making an effective tax free land deal. I ask the Prime Minister whether this is an oversight. If it is, will he take appropriate steps to correct it? If it is intentional, does he realise that the more than 5 million wage earners and taxpayers in this country object to this very strongly? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do the fees charged insured and uninsured patients for medical services referred to in part A6 of the answer to question No. 4715 (Hansard, 7th March 1972, pages 665-7), which estimates the cost of the Australian Labor Party's Medical and Hospital Health Insurance Scheme, include fees for medical services for persons covered by compulsory insurance. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received a letter from Father Patrick Connor, S.V.D., of the Divine Word Missionaries, Epping, New South Wales, regarding the imprisonment of Garfield and Judith Todd by the Smith regime in Rhodesia. 
I so, (a) when did he receive it, (b) when will he acknowledge receipt and (c) when will he reply to the letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are oral or other contraceptives ever provided free or at reduced cost by either the Australian Capital Territory or Northern Territory Health Services: if so, what is the estimated cost. 
asked the the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What  is  the estimate of fees charged (a) insured and  (b)  uninsured patients during 1971-72 by hospital medical staff at present classified as honorary and referred to in part A3, of the answer to Question No. 4715 (Hansard, 7th March 1972, pages 665-7; which estimates the cost of the Australian Labor Party's Medical and Hospital Health Insurance Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a letter posted on 22nd June 1971 from the Reverend J. H. Downing on behalf of the Alice Springs Ministers' Fraternal. 
If so, did the letter state that the infant mortality rale amongst Aborigines in the Northern Territory more than doubled in 1970, rising from 89.5 per 1,000 live births in 1969 to 182 per 1,000. 
What is the rate for 1971 to date. 
Were measles cases in Ward 9 of Alice Springs Hospital placed on the verandah  of  Ward 5 in February-March 1971, and were the children in Ward 5 convalescing from gastroenteritis and other illnesses. 
Did 7 of the children in Ward 5 die after contracting measles. 
How many (a) resident doctors, (b) trained sisters, (c) physiotherapists and (d) nursing assistants are employed at Alice Springs Hospital. 
How does the staff to patients ratio compare with Royal Prince Alfred Hospital and Royal Alexandra Hospital for children in Sydney. 
Is there a Pathology Department at Alice Springs Hospital. 
Is there a radiologist attached to the Hospital. 
Is bacteriology for Alice Springs Hospital performed by the veterinary laboratory  of  the Primary Industry Branch. 
Is it a fact that recently a highly qualified and experienced Swiss paediatric nurse applied for work at Alice Springs Hospital but was rejected because of regulations dealing with the recognition of qualifications. 
What do these regulations prescribe. 
Is there a shortage of accommodation for hospital staff. 
How many public health trained persons are employed in the Alice Springs region by the Department of Health. 
Has the Department indicated that there is a great need for staff dealing with rural health and health education. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
With reference to the proposed legislation to enable the payment of certain Australian pensions overseas, who are the relevant diplomatic representatives in Canberra with whom he has made contact and from which countries have encouraging replies been received in regard to negotiations for reciprocal agreements. 
I rise to participate in this debate for just a few minutes because the Minister for Labour and National Service accused me earlier of having double standards. He said that I had double standards because I support an increase in the wages of those on the minimum wage and those who are generally in receipt of an award wage, but I do not necessarily support an increase of the nature proposed by this clause and I do not support the proposition that the income of medical practitioners should be increased. When I was coming from the dining room the other day I met the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  who was going to the bar. He said to me: 'I am very pleased that you support a wage freeze'. He was referring to the fact that I had appeared before an inquiry appointed by this Government under  Mr Justice  Mason into the fees of general practitioners in New South Wales. 
I suggest that the Government has complete and absolute double standards. We all know that it opposes any increase in the wages of the lowly paid workers, it opposes any increase in award rates and it opposes, for that matter, any increase in the salaries of civil servants. There have been repeated appeals by the unions which represent the civil servants for a flow on of salary increases granted to their counterparts in the States but the Government continually refuses these appeals. But what do we find as far as the medical practitioners are concerned? The amount medical practitioners receive from services rendered to medical fund contributors alone increased from SI 57m in the year ended June 1969 to $247m in the year ended September 1971. In 2 years and 3 months the amount increased from $157m to $247m, an increase of $90m or in other words, a 60 per cent increase. Since then the medical practitioners have been granted another increase of 15 per cent in their fees. By adding that increase of 15 per cent to the $247m there is an increase in their income of 84 per cent. But ;he medical practitioners have decided that they want a larger income. The Government has ordered an inquiry. One would have hoped that the Government would have opposed such an increase. After all, it. went to a lot of trouble and appointed Queen's Counsel and so on to appear against the wage earners in a recent case. What did the Government do in relation to the inquiry into the fees of medical practitioners? It did not give any evidence whatever against any further increase in the fees of medical practitioners. 
Yes, it was running dead. The Government did not propose to give any evidence which would be contrary to the case put forward by the medical practitioners. In fact it has acceded to a request by the Australian Medical Association and presented certain figures. That is an example of the double standards of the Government. It is difficult to regard the Government in any other way but as a government which has double standards. People who are struggling on the minimum wage or slightly more than the minimum wage are being strongly opposed by the Government in their attempts to obtain wage justice and it finally accepts an increase of $2 a week, but medical practitioners, who are not particularly hard up, are not opposed. I was still a medical practitioner in the year ended June 1969 and during that year my income was twice that of a member of Parliament in 1972. The income of medical practitioners has been increased by 84 per cent, but the Government has not opposed it. It is ridiculous for the Government to accuse the Opposition of having double standards when it adopts that line. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who supports this proposition, as do all honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, says that it is all right for medical practitioners to get such an increase because there are only a few of them. I put it to honourable members that that is what this Parliament is about. We on this side of the chamber stand for the. majority of the people, not for the. few who are aided, abetted and represented' by honourable members opposite and who are making continual efforts to get a bigger and better share of the cake. I feel very . strongly on this issue. 1 am pleased that- the Minister has come back into the chamber after enjoying himself for the last quarter of an hour or half an hour. Perhaps he realises that double standards are the standards which his Government applies on this issue, as it does on so many others. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
What is the total Aboriginal population aged over 21 years in the Northern Territory. 
How many of these are estimated to live more than 5 miles from the nearest polling booth. 
asked the Minister for 
Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Universities Commission received a request from Parramatta District Hospital for funds to help with capital expenditure required to provide facilities for post-graduate medical education. 
If so, when will the Commission announce its recommendation. 
In addressing myself to proposed new section 22 I will of course deal also with the separation of the functions of conciliation and arbitration. I think I could do no better than to read some extracts from an article written by  Mr J.  B. Sweeney, Q.C., which appeared in the 'Sunday Australian'  of 30th April this year.  Mr Sweeney  prefaced  his  remarks - I  think we would all share this belief - by saying: 
Most of us know there is no universal panacea and no perfect solution for industrial unrest or the problems of wage fixation. We want a system of industrial regulation which will ensure better material standards for most people. 
We prefer these better standards to be reached with as little dislocation, hardship and loss as possible. So one must judge  Mr Lynch's  new arbitration proposals against this background. Will they make for better industrial relations, reduce strikes, increase productivity? I think not. 
Later in the  article,  Mr Sweeney  made the point that: 
Probably most important and unfortunate are the proposals to separate conciliation and arbitration. 
At present when an application come* before the commission it is assigned to a commissioner or judge who proceeds to hold conferences or may decide to begin a hearing. He may, and very often will, combine the two processes by suggesting conferences at an appropriate time, and by taking part in them himself if desirable. He may make suggestions or express tentative views. Tha system is flexible and is working, as is shown by the increasing number of consent award*  .Hid  agreements. 
Under the bill, this will be changed. A claim will first go to a conciliation commissioner who will hold conferences. 
When he is satisfied that conciliation can get no further, the case goes to an arbitration commissioner or judge for arbitration. His function is purely arbitration. He probably should not even use a conciliator)' tone of voice. 
This rigid division is contrary to common sense. 
May  I  say that I  completely  agree that  it  seems quite  ridiculous  to have  such  a rigid  division.  Mr Sweeney  continued: 
The personality of the arbitrator plays an imporant part in the settlement of cases. At some point each party will ask: Will we do better it we fight the case? If the arbitrator is present, parties will be less ready to adopt unreasonable attitudes in negotiation. 
The new system is less flexible and will lengthen hearings. It has no counterpart in modern arbitration systems, and has nothing to recommend it. 
Allied with it is the task force system under which an industry or group of industries is to be assigned to a group consisting of a judge, .in arbitration commissioner and a conciliation commissioner. The presidential member (judge) is presumably to co-ordinate the work of the group. At present each commissioner is assigned an industry or group ot industries and a feature of the commission is the pride a good commissioner takes in the industrial record of his industry. I think this system should continue. It allows greater flexibility and differences of approach than the new. 
I think it is important to note that  Mr Sweeney  has had some 20-odd years of experience in conciliation and arbitration matters. He understands the point of view at least of the unions and because of the number of times he has appeared against employers he probaby also understands the point of view of the employers and their representatives. It seems quite clear to me that the more formalistic or legalistic you make a system, or the more legal conditions or restraints you impose on the people, whether they be conciliation commissioners or arbitration commissioners, the worse it is from the point of view of the Act. 
It may well be that there should be some way - and there is provision for it in the present Act - in which the  President  can decide that a particular case should be. dealt with by a different arbitrator, once conciliation has failed, because the conciliator has become too involved in that case. I can see no possible reason why, when it comes to the final stage at which somebody has to make a decision in a conciliation case, a person who has been involved in that case should be excluded from being able to make that decision, and the whole argument has to be gone over again. 
As honourable members are no doubt aware, it is quite clear in this Act that any admissions, or whatever you like to call them, which have been made before the conciliation commissioner cannot be used during the arbitration proceedings. I think this is wrong, if for no other reason than that we are putting very strict legal constraints or restrictions on the people who we feel ought to be able to act as conciliators and arbitrators. If, during conciliation meetings, the unions feel that they have persuaded the conciliation commissioner on a point of some relevance that there is something to their case and that their members in fact will strike if they cannot get some particular concessions, it is ridiculous if none of this evidence can be put to the arbitration commissioner and if the arbitration commissioner who finally makes the decision is a completely different person from the conciliation commissioner who originally heard the matter. It seems self evident to me. I find it difficult to see why the Minister in fact has insisted on this separation of functions. 
1 address my remarks to proposed new section 27, sub-section (5.) of which reads: 
A person directed under sub-section (1.) of this section shall attend the conference and continue his attendance as directed by the person presiding over the conference. 
Penalty: One thousand dollars. 
Sub-section (1.) reads: 
For the purposes of the performance of his functions in respect of an industrial dispute, a Conciliation Commissioner may, of his own motion or upon application made by a party to the industrial dispute, direct a person to attend, at a time and place specified in the direction, at a con ference presided over by himself or another Conciliation Commissioner or by such other person as the Conciliation Commissioner determines. 
Speaking for myself I would say that it is probably reasonable enough that people representing both parties should attend such a meeting. At the same time if one side, for example the trade union side, felt that no good could be achieved by this, what is the point of attending the conference? What this proposed new section is really saying is that if a person just attends and does not open his mouth then it is all right. He may refuse to participate in the conference. But if he refuses to attend because the members of his union have said that there is no point in trying to achieve a compromise on a particular issue that person - the trade union secretary or a representative of the union - would immediately be penalised $1,000. To my mind this is a pointless exercise because a person can carry out his obligation by just attending the conference, sitting there and not doing anything. The provisions in this proposed new section amount to a threat against the unions as this Government likes to do on the question of arbitration, without any point whatsoever. 
 I should like quickly to reply to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It strikes me that the Government and everyone else is arguing, and we are supporting, that in arbitration and conciliation there should be as much democracy as possible in relation to unions. Recently in an extended series of strikes and subsequent proceedings before the Commission in relation to the Atlantean bus dispute in Sydney, union officials were given strict instructions by union members that the members would not drive Atlantean buses on a one-man basis. I cannot see the point in forcing the secretary of that union to go to court merely to repeat that his members had instructed him not to conciliate on the matter. Yet that secretary will be required to do so and should he leave the court before the Commissioner gives him permission to do so he will be liable to a fine of $1,000. To me that seems completely pointless. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed new sections 28 to 31  -  by leave - taken together. 
I should like to associate myself completely with the remarks made by the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb).  I refer very quickly - I understand that we have to deal with this entire clause very quickly  -  te proposed new section 46. Honourable members will note that this deals with offences relating to ballots and provides for a penalty of $500 or imprisonment for 6 months for such offences. I should like to draw the Committee's attention to proposed new sub-section (3.) of clause 46, which states, relevantly from my point of view, that a person shall not, in connection with a ballot ordered under section 45 of the Act, offer or suggest any loss or disadvantage for or on account of any support of, or opposition to, voting in a particular manner. I suggest that the whole point of voting revolves about this very point. It is suggested to people that they will benefit or be at a disadvantage depending on whether they vote yes or no, Liberal or Labor or for or against whatever the proposition is. Surely the whole point of having an intelligent vote is to have a discussion about what the advantages and disadvantages would be of voting for or against a proposition. It seems quite ridiculous to me that a penalty of $500 or imprisonment for 6 months should be incurred if a person puts, in connection with one of these ballots, the proposition that if, for example, the workers vote against the strike it means they will be at a disadvantage on account of opposing that strike, or vice versa. Surely this is not intended, and I should like to hear the Minister's explanation. 
I should like quickly to ask the Minister or the Assistant Minister 2 questions. I would appreciate a reply. Firstly I wish to refer to proposed new section 72 which is contained in clause 26. Proposed new section 72 states: 
The Commission  ls  empowered - 
to prevent or settle industrial disputes by conciliation, or arbitration; and 
to settle by conciliation, or to hear and determine, industrial matters in so far as those matters relate to - 
trade and commerce with other countries or among the States; 
trade and commerce between a State and a Territory of the Commonwealth; or 
trade and commerce in a Territory of the Commonwealth, 
The question I would like to ask is this: How did the question of the Sydney bus dispute ever come under federal arbitration jurisdiction? As I see it there is no question of an interstate dispute in relation to the Atlantean buses. 
The second matter I want to raise refers to proposed new clause 141a (6.) which appears in clause 47 of the Bill and which states: 
Nothing in this section authorises a payment in respect of fees of more than one counsel appearing for the applicant in proceedings unless two or more counsel appeared, or are to appear, for another parly to, or an intervener in, the proceedings. 
I would appreciate it if I could get some explanation as to who would or could be an intervener. Can any person intervene in these proceedings? Does the person have to be a member of the union? I assume he does not, otherwise there would not be a reference to an intervener. It appears to me that if anybody can intervene in these proceedings, unions can be up for a lot of money because of outsiders intervening just for the purpose of breaking a particular union. The interveners could cause that union a lot of legal expense especially as their legal expenses are covered by the Commonwealth Government. I would like to find out, therefore, just who would or could be an intervener in these proceedings. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
What has been the total Commonwealth contribution (a) spent and (b) allotted but not yet spent under the Aged Persons Homes Act in each electoral division of the Commonwealth to date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Multiphasic Health Screening Services Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia completed its report. 
If so, when will it be released. 
If not, when is it expected to be completed. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the plight of a Romanian migrant couple,  Mr and Mrs Placintar,  who claim that their child has been refused permission to leave Romania. 
If so, can he confirm or deny their claim. 
If the claim is confirmed, will he ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to use our new Ambassador to Romania to make urgent representations to release the child. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the amount of Commonwealth estate duty payable in cases where an estate passes to a widow, widower, children or grand children, and where the dutiable value of the estate is (a) $19,999 or less, (b) 25,000, (c) $30,000, (d) $40,000, (e) $50,000 and (f) $100,000. 
On how many estates was probate granted during each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969- 70 and 1970-71. 
How many of the estates referred to in part (2) were assessed for Commonwealth estate duty in each of those years. 
asked  the  Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
What was the cost of administering payment to local Medical Officers in 1970-71. 
What is the estimated cost for 1971-72. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Services. He has received from me representations regarding a 58- year old invalid pensioner, who has a wife who is also aged less than 60, who receive between them a pension of $52 a fortnight, which is $104 every 4 weeks. As this man as the Minister knows, has severe silicosis with extreme breathlessness, uses $70 worth of oxygen a month and pays rent of $9 a week - making a total of over $106 a month - how does the Minister suggest that this couple should exist? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the inadequacy of the automatic telephone system in Parliament House. 
If so, when will his Department take steps to correct the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is (he Medical Benefits Fund of Australia registered under the National Health Act. 
Does it claim to have 2.5 million contributors and dependants. 
Is it a fact that there is no provision for these contributors to elect representatives to the governing council of the Fund. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many British citizens originating from Malta have enrolled on the electoral rolls in each of the last 10 years. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
How many outstanding applications for the connection of telephone services are there in each State or Territory and in the area covered by the Penrith City Council. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
When were monthly approvals under the Aged Persons Homes Act first (a) prepared and (b) circulated showing the addresses of the projects and the electoral divisions in which they are located. 
What have been the total amounts of (a) Commonwealth grants, (b) capital costs and (c) donations by residents for each electoral division of the Commonwealth since that date. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What were the salaries and allowances of (a)  Mr Justice  Moore, (b)  Mr Justice  Williams, (c)  Mr Justice  Aird, (d)  Mr E.  A. C. Chambers, Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator, and (e)  Mr J.  E. Taylor, Senior Arbitration Commissioner, on J May 1972. 
What was the minimum wage fixed by these persons for each State and Territory, on that date. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What would be the administration expenses of the Comomnwealth Health Insurance Commission if claims were made by participating doctors and not individual patients as assumed in part A7 of the answer to question No. 4715 (Hansard, 7th March 1972, pages 665-7) which estimates the cost of the Australian Labor Party's Medical and Hospital Insurance Scheme. 
I understand that we are now dealing with the Bill as a whole in Committee, is that correct? 
 Mr Speaker,  I should like to join in this discussion on whether you decide letters are obscene. It is obvious to me, and I hope that it is obvious to every member of this House - even the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  - that it is not an easy decision to make. There is obvious disagreement on the Government benches. As I remember it, that letter contained an extract from 'Playboy' magazine.  Mr Petersilka,  who sent us the letter, complained about the fact that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  had admitted 'Playboy' magazine into this country, in, I think, January or February this year, thereby declaring it not obscene. Obviously, at least one Government department or one Government Minister has decided that it is not an obscene publication. The second point I want to raise with you,  Mr Speaker,  is that you have just suggested that, although you considered this particular extract to be obscene, you arranged for all of these letters to be returned to  Mr Petersilka  and suggested to him that he should post them to the House. As I understand from legal advice that I have received, you have committed conspiracy to break the law, the Post and Telegraph Act. If, in fact, you believed that this mail was obscene, by suggesting that it should be sent through  Her  Majesty's mail you were suggesting to a person that he should break the law. As you are no doubt aware, a section of the Post and Telegraph Act makes it quite clear that obscene material, or whatever the terminology is, should not be carried by the Post Office. If you have done what you said you did, obviously you have conspired to do just that. I suggest to you that this makes it all the more obvious that this is an extremely difficult position to deal with. It is not an easy decision to make. If you are one who believes that certain things should be censored - I am not one of those - it makes it an extremely difficult decision. There is obvious disagreement, probably on both sides of the House, but we are aware of it only on the Government side of the House. We have a position in which you are taking a certain stand on 'Playboy' magazine and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  is taking a different stand. The Minister for the Navy takes a certain stand on 'The Little Red Schoolbook' and the Minister for Customs and Excise, amongst others, takes a different stand on that piece of literature. 

 Mr Speaker, I suggest to you that, apart from anything else, if Parliamentarians are to make certain decisions, surely they should be informed on what decisions they should make. If we are to make a decision on whether 'Playboy' magazine for February or January 1972 is an obscene publication, we should be not only entitled to see it but encouraged to see it so that we can make a decision. Otherwise we will finish up with the ridiculous situation that occurred earlier this year when a group of Parliamentarians came out with a statement about "The Little Red Schoolbook', and when interviewed by the Press a large number said that they had not read the publication but that they had come to the conclusion that it was offensive. I am sure you would not like us to come to decisions without having had a look at the relevant material. So I suggest to you that in future it might be reasonable to let Parliamentarians themselves decide whether certain material is obscene so that we do not finish up in the situation of certain others who make decisions about a piece of literature without reading it. 
But they would be delivered in exactly the same way by the same people to the same rooms. 
As you may wish to seek other means o! having the envelopes forwarded to members I am accordingly returning to you the envelopes addressed to members of the House. 
I did not actually say that he should send them by post, as the honourable member suggested when talking about conspiracy. 
I should  like to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the total administration cost of all registered hospital funds in 1970-71. 
What is the estimated cost for 1971-72. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What was the total profit before taxation of foreign-owned companies in Australia in (a) 1960- 61, (b) 1965-66 and (c) the latest year for which information is available. 
What was the total tax levied on foreignowned companies in each of these years. 
What was the total profit before taxation of all companies registered in Australia in each of the 3 years. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the total administration cost of all registered medical funds in 1970-71. 
What is the estimated cost for 1971-72. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (.1) Which States charge fees to patients in psychiatric hospitals. 
When did each of the States concerned first introduce these charges. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the immediate effect of each of Australia's double taxation agreements on Australian tax revenue. 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a letter from David Martin, of Taringa, Queensland, in 'The Australian', of 2nd March 1972. 
Was David Martin, a Quaker pacifist, sent to Boggo Road Gaol, Brisbane, as a result of a conviction for failing to register for national service. 
Does he accept any responsibility for the treatment of offenders who are gaoled for offences under the National Service Act. 
Will he immediately investigate David Martin's allegations regarding his treatment at Boggo Road Gaol. 
If the allegations are substantially correct, will he (a) insist that offenders against the National Service Act are treated in a civilised fashion and (b) inform his colleague the Attorney-General so that similar instructions are given in respect of other offenders against Federal legislation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What would be the estimated loss to revenue of the proposal to raise the income tax exemption to the minimum award wage for a taxpayer with 2 dependants. 
What would be the estimated loss to revenue of the proposal to reduce the maximum marginal rate of tax deduction to 50 cents in the dollar. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many (a) age pensioners, (b) males over 65, (c) females over 60, (d) females  over  65 and (e) taxpayers were there, and what was the total population, in the years 1954, 1961, 1966 and 1971. 
What was the percentage of the sum of males over 65 and females over 60 to the total population in each of the same years. 
Can he provide estimates of the information sought in parts (1) and (2) in respect of the years 1976, 1981 and 1986. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the Minister next contact Alice Springs Hospital to enable an answer to be given to Question No. 4452 which I placed on the Notice Paper on 13th October 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister read my question No. 5316 again and then re-read the answer (Hansard, 10th May. 1972). 
What is the relevance of the statement in the answer to my question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister supply figures of increases in medical practitioners' incomes for the quarter ended 31st December 1971, as supplied in answer to question No. 4453 (Hansard, 27th April 1972, pages 2175-6), as soon as they become available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many medical practitioners in each (a) State and (b) Territory of the Commonwealth have been accepted as (i) specialists and (ii) physicians for the purpose of medical benefit refunds under the National Health Act 
How many of the (a) specialists and (b) physicians so accepted practise also as general practitioners. &lt;3) What proportion of accounts rendered by medical practitioners in this dual classification are rendered at the (a) specialist and (b) general practitioner rate. 
If the information sought in parts (2) and (3) is not available to the Department of Health, will the Minister take urgent action to obtain it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (,1) What are the names of the 2 (a) medical and (b) hospital benefits organisations in each State with the greatest membership. 
Which of these organisations make provision in their constitutions for the election of contributor representatives to their governing bodies. 
In each of the organisations what is the number of (a) people and (b) elected contributor representatives on their governing body. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What was the percentage of general practitioner (a) consultations and (b) home visits in (i) each State and (ii) the Commonwealth charged for at or below the common fee (A) during the quarter ended 31st December 1970 and (B) during the latest quarter for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by  Dr William  McBride deploring the absence of a medical statistician and an expert on congenital malformations from the Drug Evaluation Committee. 
Will he make the appropriate additions to the Committee. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are patients referred for medical screening to the Shepherd Foundation (Melbourne) by a medical practitioner entitled to rebates from medical benefits organisations; if not, why not. 
If so, under what items in the schedule of benefits are they entitled to rebates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are patients referred for medical screening to Medicheck (Sydney) by a medical practitioner entitled to rebates from medical benefits organisations; if not, why not. 
If so, under what items in the schedule of benefits are they entitled to rebates. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the names of the members of the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. 
What are the names of the members of the (a) New South Wales, (b) Queensland and (c) Tasmanian Executive Committee of the Fund. 
What is the method of election or appointment of the Council and Committees. 
How many of the members of each of these bodies are registered medical practitioners. 
What was the (a) total Commonwealth Government contribution in various reimbursements to the Fund, (b) total income of the Fund and (c) surplus of income over expenditure of the Fund for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
What was the (a) value of reserves and (b) market value of investments of the Fund as at 30th June 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give the reasons behind the reasoned estimate mentioned in the answer to question No. 5310 (Hansard, 30th May 1972) which enabled him to estimate that an additional 824,000 Australian women would use oral contraceptives if they were available free as pharmaceutical benefits. 
-I address my question to the Prime Minister. On 30th July the honourable member for Chisholm, claiming to speak on behalf of the Federal Government, at a meeting of the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party said that the Government was examining the possibility of lifting the  211  per cent sales tax on oral contraceptives. The Victorian Council supported that proposition. Last week, on 16th August, speaking on the Macquarie radio network the Prime Minister said on behalf of the Government: 'We did not look at the question of the abolition of sales tax on contraceptives.' Will the Prime Minister take any other steps to reprimand the honourable member for Chisholm for giving incorrect information to such an. important although unrepresentative body? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was the Medical Benefits Schedules Advisory Committee set up. 
How often has it met. 
Who are the members of the Committee. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Government have tried to make much of the alleged tax concessions in the Budget and the justice and fairness of them, but let us look at what has really been proposed. If we look at Table 1 in the document 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure' we see the estimated amounts for 1971-72 and the estimates for 1972-73. Instead of a tax reduction what we really find is that the pay as you earn taxpayers, that is the wage and salary earners who make up more than 90 per cent of all taxpayers, will be paying 13.48 per cent more this year while taxpayers who are self employed will pay only a 5.66 per cent increase in taxation. Company tax will increase by only 1.52 per cent, customs duty will be increased by 12.20 per cent, excise duty will be increased by 5.86 per cent, and sales tax will be increased by 7.86 per cent. I put this to the House only to show that the vast majority of taxpayers will be paying much more taxation this year; on the average they will pay 13.4 per cent more than they did last year. 
I would like to devote most of my remarks to health services, with special reference to the most rapidly growing areas of the capital cities such as the outer western metropolitan areas of Sydney. Those health services have been completely neglected by this Government. This is not surprising. Two Ministers representing constituencies in the western areas of Sydney do not live there. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  represents Parramatta but lives in Wahroonga. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  represents Lowe but lives at Bellevue Hill. No wonder they do not care. No wonder they will not hold their seats. The honourable member for Parramatta calls past occasionally to present a flag to a local school, implying that he bought it and that we would be living under Red Chinese domination if he were not the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister and his good lady call past Strathfield and assure the locals that they cannot make up their mind whether to send their boy to Trinity School at Strathfield or to Scots College at Bellevue Hill. I am prepared to have a good bet on Scots College and am prepared to offer 100 to 1 about Strathfield High School or Homebush High School. So it is not surprising that they do not care or, if you want me to be more kind, that they are unaware of the conditions in the western areas of Sydney. This applies to housing, transport, schools and health services. 
Before dealing with the latter in more detail I should like to spend just a couple of minutes on the new economic theory in this country which the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  - I agree in this particular instance - has described as xenophobic economics. Xenophobic economics holds that immigration causes inflation, unemployment, capital loss, depletion of resources, housing shortages, inordinate strains on community facilities, excessively high economic growth and, of course, excessively low economic growth. Supporters of this theory - it cuts across economic class and contains various shades of political belief such as the Liberal-Country Party, the Australia Party and the Communist Party of Australia - have a scapegoat, the migrant. What the Jews were in Hitler's Germany, the Trotskyites in Stalin's Russia, and the Asians are in Amin's Uganda, the migrants are in Australia. They are too lazy and they work too hard; they are police pimps and they run the Mafia; they are all Catholic Democratic Labor Party supporters and atheists trying to bring in the continental Sunday; they are illiterate and they win all the scholarships; they are mean and hoard all their money and at the same time they are mad gamblers; they lock up their wives and daughters and they make them walk the streets; and of course they bludge on our social services, cheat our workers compensation companies and worst of all they win nearly all the lotteries. Honourable members may think I am joking or exaggerating, but if they listen to the spokesmen for xenophobic economics they will realise that I am not. 
The same people who told us 18 months ago that immigration must stop because it costs up to $50,000 per migrant family to establish them by building houses, roads, schools, hospitals, etc., and that it was uneconomic to bring them in because they were really a manpower loss, tell us that we must stop immigration because they take all the jobs. I am not suggesting that immigration on a large scale does not cause problems, but for goodness sake let us be rational about it. Maybe I am easily depressed but few things upset me more than the hypocritical patio intellectuals who lecture us on racial equality. They support the admission of Asian and African intellectuals, professionals and business people but repeatedly use value judgment arguments no different from those of the Immigration Control Association. They argue that surely it is preferable to allow in an English speaking, Christian Hong Kong graduate than, horror of honors, a non-English speaking unskilled, yes even peasant origin, family from one of the Mediterranean countries. Some of them are even Muslims and some of :them are just as dark as people from south east Asia. If they believe in racial equality, then why not compare them with Aryan, northern European professional and business people? Why suggest that darker people of Mediterranean origin are of less value, especially if they have no higher school certificate? 
Let me return to the failure of this Government to do anything in. the Budget about health care. Let us look at the facts as circulated in the June 1972 survey by the Public Hospitals Planning Liaison Committe of the Hospitals Commission of New South Wales and an earlier survey of metropolitan hospitals which was published by the same Commission. These, documents show that the western metropolitan region of Sydney at present has a hospital bed deficit of 1,200. By 1975 this will be 1,442 beds. By 1980 this will be 1,800 beds, if the Government of New South Wales fulfils its promise to build a 660-bed hospital at Westmead. None of these figures includes the need for geriatric or psychiatric beds.  Mr Jago,  the New South Wales Minister for Health, had promised in July 1968 that the first part of Westmead would be completed by 1972 and that 1,100 beds would be in use by 1976. Nothing happened until February 1972 when he proclaimed that 400 beds would be completed by 1976 and the full hospital of now 660 beds by 1980. So even the promise has been cut by 440 beds from 1,100 to 660 beds. Last week I was told that the Parramatta Agricultural and Horticultural Society is spending $14,000 on extensions to its trotting track, which is the proposed site of the new hospital. The Society has been assured by the State Government that no tenders will be called for before 1975. Both  Sir Robert  Askin and  Mr Jago  have stated that the Westmead Hospital has the highest priority of any in the State. If they mean what they say there will be a maximum of 660 new beds provided in the next 7i years for New South Wales or until they are replaced, whichever is he earliest. 
Looking at pediatric needs - that is children's beds - the position is proportionately even worse. At present there is an estimated need for 520 beds in the outer western metropolitan area compared with a bed capacity of 170. This means that about 350 children from the outer western suburbs are in hospitals outside the area at any one time. It is estimated that by 1980 the need will be over 800 beds. An extra 120 children's beds will be at Westmead Hospital and the total deficit will then be over 500 beds. In 1980 at any one time 500 out of 800 of the hospitalised local children will have to be treated a long way from home. To this must be added many more children who have to attend specialist clinics at the Children's Hospital, from 15 to 20 miles away, depending on where the children live. Even now over 100 of the local children have to attend the hospital at Camperdown daily and many others have to go to the Prince of Wales Hospital at Randwick. An official report of January 1969 concluded: 
From these statistics it would appear that a critical situation exists in the peripheral parts of the city and examination of the hospital facilities and waiting lists for admission supports this statement. It is notable that obstetric accommodation is at a premium in almost all peripheral hospitals and this is a reflection of the young age groups resident in the areas. This concentration of youth on the fringes of the city obviously reduces the need for general beds from the theoretically determined figures, but shows up the shortage alarmingly in respect of obstetric accommodation. To this we can add pediatric beds and facilities. 
The New South Wales Liberal Government's solution to this problem is to sell 25 acres already owned by the Hospital 
Commission at Colyton to the friendly land speculators and to buy a site at Mount Druitt for a proposed 210-bed hospital, but not before 1980. In the meantime the Australian Federation of Private Hospitals has no complaints, but the thousands of people in the area who have signed petitions against the Colyton sellout suggest that most people living there do have complaints. What is happening, of course, is that private hospitals are spreading quickly. Many of them are owned by doctors. These private hospitals receive the most profitable cases - tonsillectomies, appendectomies, herniorrhaphies, curettes, varicose veins and examinations under anaesthesia. 
They provide no backup services and charge $25 a day plus $15 for theatre fees. If anything goes wrong, patients are transferred to public hospitals. It is no wonder that the mortality figures of those hospitals are so good. Considering their ownership, it is also not surprising that they have a very high bed occupancy rate.  Dr Hughes,  who is  President  of the Federation of Private Hospitals, is the endorsed Liberal candidate for the Australian Capital Territory. I emphasise that we on this side of the House do not believe that the vital area of community health services belongs to the free enterprise market place as though the mystical concept of perfect competition prevailed. We propose setting up an Australian Hospitals and Public Health Services Commission. Through that agency we would aim at achieving the optimum health delivery service for Australia. The Commission will help us to see our goals clearly and to provide advice so that we can decide on a specific course of action. 
This Government accepts no responsibility for the provision of hospital facilities and has no plans to change this position, judging by the provisions in the Budget. Westmead Hospital will be a teaching hospital but no Commonwealth money is forthcoming. The New South Wales Government does not have the money, or so it says and I believe it. Fairfield District Hospital, in the same area, is not to be expanded from its size of 141 beds even though this capacity is quite uneconomic. It is a ridiculous approach.  Dr Hogg  of Parramatta, who I feel sure used to be a Liberal voter, assures me that he has repeatedly asked the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  for Commonwealth help. The honourable member for Parramatta could have helped when he was Minister for Education and Science, but he refused point blank. 
During the last few weeks 11,340 Baulkham Hills residents signed a petition to try to get something done about a local hospital. A site is available but the Federal and New South Wales governments have offered no help whatever. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who allegedly represents those residents in this House, does nothing about it, just as he does nothing about the Government's decision to build a 24-hour a day international airport in the area of RichmondLondonderry. What is the Government doing about the provision of Commonwealth support for psychiatric hospital patients? No doubt honourable members are aware that when pensioners are admitted into psychiatric hospitals they lose their pensions and become a burden on the State Government. In New South Wales all psychiatric patients are charged at the rate of §15 a day, or slightly more than that. The debt is generally collected from the patient's estate, if any. This principle also applies to psychiatric patients insured with hospital funds. They are not covered. The State Government does its best to expel these patients into nursing homes when the Commonwealth again accepts the burden of paying pensions and adds nursing home benefits. Surely this is not the way to deal with this problem. The enormousness of the problem can be realised by remembering that at any one time 37 per cent of the all public hospital in-patients in Australia are in psychiatric hospitals. 
The Government does nothing about this situation. It happily contracts out and gives increased nursing and convalescent hospital benefits to the proprietors of these hospitals. After the Budget was introduced the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  announced certain new arrangements for patients requiring nursing care. The new additional benefits for patients in nursing homes vary from $10.50 a week in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania to $11.20 in Western Australia, $14 in South Australia and $22.40 in Victoria. The Minister stated that the rates are a reflection of the varying levels of fees applying in each of the States. The Government has of course introduced price control in nursing homes knowing full well that nursing home proprietors are likely to raise their fees immediately. If price control is to be introduced it should be fair; that is, it should be based on cost plus a reasonable return, whatever that expression might mean. In any case, we would all agree that the reasonable return should be similar in all States. 
I could not see why costs in Victoria would be $12 a week higher than costs in New South Wales. This ratio does not apply to costs for public hospital beds, for which the cost is similar in both States. 1 therefore asked the Legislative Research Service to supply me with an explanation. It produced some interesting tables which I showed to the Minister at the table and I ask for leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 
The Minister in charge of the House at the time - the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp). 

<graphic href="079131197208291_71_1.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service from statistics provided by the Commonwealth Department of Health in answer to Parliamentary Question No. 3363, 1971. 

<graphic href="079131197208291_72_2.jpg"></graphic>

Compiled at request by the Legislative Research Service from the 'Annual Report of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health, 1971'. 
-I thank the Minister lor granting leave to have the tables incorporated in Hansard. They show that a relative shortage of nursing home beds exists in Victoria. If Victoria wanted to equalise the position of nursing home beds, 10,000 extra beds would be required. In August 1970 the average weekly fee in private nursing homes in New South Wales was $43.33 while in Victoria the average fee was $63.07, a difference of nearly 50 per cent. The fee in Victoria averages about $20 a week more. As the Legislative Research Service put it in answer to my question: "This shortage has led to a situation where private nursing homes in Victoria have been able to increase their charges without adversely influencing demand.' In other words, they have been able to charge much more than the actual cost. 
This shows that the Government's decision to subsidise Victorian private nursing homes by another $600 a bed a year is not a subsidy on cost plus a reasonable return but, as the honourable member for Barton put it, is on the basis of what the traffic will bear. This is completely wrong and unfair to the taxpayers of Australia. It therefore is quite clear as stated in the Labor Party's proposed amendment that the Budget provides no framework for improving the standards of health and welfare and no national plan for our capital cities. I strongly commend the amendment to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Yesterday afternoon the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who we all know, is an extremely unscrupulous person and  who was sacked by the former Prime Minister 
Who we ' all know- 
What particular remark? 
-I withdraw it, and  l  will leave it to the judgment of honourable members when I point out what. he. said and how he behaved yesterday in this House. 
Yesterday afternoon in the House, as appears at page 779 of yesterday's Hansard, the honourable member for Ballaarat, an ex-Minister, said: 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  recently wrote: 
The basic struggles of class in society will not disappear, but in our increasingly pluralist society we have to adopt a radicalism that is no longer decided on the material interests of the lower income groups. 
From that he developed an argument that I was opposed to working for the interests of the lower income groups. This article was written in early 1970 and the quotation differs from it. I quote from the article: 
The basic struggles of class in society will not disappear, but in our increasingly pluralist society we have to adopt a radicalism that is no longer decided solely on the material interests of the lower income groups. 
There is a significant difference between the 2 passages, I think you will see,  Mr Speaker.  The rest of the statement is completely wrong. Can I ask for the Hansard report to be corrected because, after all, this statement was given as a quotation? It should have been the duty of the Hansard staff to check the quotation, as it normally does. 
I would like to take a few minutes to deal with the lack of democracy in the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. With the federal election imminent we shall undoubtedly be faced with attacks on the Australian Labor Party's alternative health scheme. These attacks will come mainly from the Voluntary Health Insurance Council of Australia which is a front organisation representing the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. This large 'mutual benefit' organisation pretends to speak of nearly one million contributors plus  2  million to 3 million dependants. But what actually happens? Neither the Federal Council of the Medical Benefits Fund nor the State Executive Committee provides for a single person elected by contributors. The contributors, who paid over $68m to the Medical Benefits Fund during 1970-71, are told their rights in clause 18 of the articles of association which I have finally obtained. Clause 18 reads: 
Contributory members shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any gene al meetings or to receive notice thereof. 
Only medical members have a vote. Clause 7 reads: 
Medical members of the Association shall be elected by the Council or by a Committee appointed by the Council wilh power in that behalf. 
In other words, the Council elects the people who elect the Council. To make sure that not too many tame medical members need be found, clause 37 states: 
Five medical members personally present shall be a quorum of a General Meeting. 
This general meeting then elects the council. This 'representative' body then deals with the affairs of a fund which in 1970- 71 had an income of over $68m from its members and over $45m from the Commonwealth. It showed a profit of over $10m for the year, and this was added to the net current assets making them nearly $48m of contributors' money on 30th June 1971. 
The Medical Benefits Fund often denies that it is run by the Australian Medical Association for the Australian Medical Association, but let us look at this. It was formed by 17 persons 'desirous of being formed into a company' - the MBF. They described themselves as surgeons - 8, medical practitioners - 7, and physicians - 2. Their signatures were witnessed by officers of the, then, British Medical Association, and 14 of them have been BMA or AMA State presidents. The net effect of this control by the AMA is the restriction of benefits to services rendered by medical practitioners. 
Under the Government's rules up to 5 per cent of income can be spent on unmatched services, that is, ancillary services such as physiotherapy, optometry, nursing, attendance at public hospitals and so on. But the Medical Benefits Funds spends only 1.5 per cent in New South Wales and 1.4 per cent in Queensland, its 2 main States. This is the lowest percentage of any of the many funds. Can the Council really argue that this is acting in the interests of its contributors? On the other hand, it spends money on anti-Labor propaganda. Even though the articles of association show quite clearly that there was never any intention to allow contributors any say, their claim now is that there is no common roll for elections. If this is so, this is breach of article 21 which states: 
There shall be a register of members kept by the Association and there shall be entered in such register the full name and address of each member. 
The present members of the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund include 12 active AMA members plus a consultant for the Development Finance Corporation Ltd and former deputy general manager of the Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd, the national executive director of the Australian Institute of Building, a Country 
Party Member of the Legislative Council in New South Wales and director of country newspapers and television, another board member of Development Finance Corporation Ltd and director of light companies including Australian Fixed Trusts Queensland Division, Queensland Oil Refineries, the National Bank of Australasia, City Mutual Life Insurance Society, Ltd, Mutual Acceptance Ltd, and a Tasmanian Liberal ex-member of the House of Assembly. They are the people who claim to be representing the Medical Benefits Fund contributors and controlling the policy and huge reserves of that fund. I appeal to the people of Australia to remember that, when they issue their antiLabor propaganda, they do not speak for the one million-odd contributors of the Medical Benefits Fund. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Can he supply figures showing at least approximate estimates of the number of people in Australia who are addicted (psychlogically or physically dependent) to: 
pornography, 
marihuana, 
opium alkaloids 
barbiturates, 
analgesics and 
alcohol 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will he extend Table 36 (Value of Minerals Produced and State Government Collections df Royalties; 1966-67 to 1970-71) in the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 - Overseas Investment in Australia, by supplying similar information for the Northern Territory. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which Federal Members of Parliament appeared on the A. B.C. programme This Day Tonight during the 12 months ended 31st July 1972. 
How many times did each of them appear. 
What was the total number of appearances by Members who are members of the (a) Liberal Party, (b) Australian Country Party, (c) Australian Democratic Labor Party and (d) Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What distinctions does his Department make between legally married and de facto wives. 
ls it a fact that de facto wives of exservicemen are worse off regarding entitlements than de facto wives of civilian pensioners. 
If so, what is the reason for this distinction. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr C.  H. Locke,  Chairman  of Tooheys Ltd, that his company will establish trendy bistros as part of a massive brewery drive to attract young drinkers. 
If so, will he ask the Drug Education Committee to make a special effort in opposing this drive to attract young drinkers. 
Will he set an example by criticising consumers and sellers of alcohol as frequently as he does consumers and sellers of marihuana. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Of the 2,333,000 unmatched services referred to in the 1970-71 report of the DirectorGeneral of Health how many received (a) Commonwealth and (b) fund benefits only. 
What were the main categories which received (a) Commonwealth and (b) fund benefits and what was the number of unmatched services in each category, 
How many claims for refunds for physiotherapy treatment were received by medical benefits organisations during each of the last 3 years. 
How many of these claims were refused completely (a) because the organisation granted no refund or (b) because the maximum number of claims per year had been exceeded. 
What was the total refund given by medical benefit organisations for physiotherapy treatment during each of the last 3 years. 
Which of the registered medical benefit organisations make refunds for physiotherapy treatment. 
In respect of each of these organisations (a) what is the benefit, (b) what are the conditions and (c) what was the cost to the fund during each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the names of the two (a) medical and (b) hospital benefits organisations in each State with the greatest membership. 
Which of these organisations makes provision in their constitutions for the election of contributor representatives to their governing bodies. 
In each of the organisations what is the number of (a) people and (b) elected contributor representatives on their governing body. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, who in a televised interview last night mentioned the 3 times when he acted decisively in the Cabinet. He mentioned his standing up to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister's supporters in the Cabinet. 
1 would like to deal with one specific case that has arisen from this mess-up. It is the case of Miss Barbara Joyce Russell, an unemployed nursing aide, aged 22, of Strzelecki Crescent, Narrabundah, who was fined $40 by  Mr Dobson,  SM, in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions on Monday. She was found guilty of encouraging the commission of an offence by distributing a leaflet on 28th July encouraging people not to register for national service. She was flown to Sydney yesterday because she refused to pay the fine. She is to be incarcerated, with light labour, at Silverwater Detention Centre in Auburn, Sydney. The 'Sydney Morning Herald', today said: 
Looking pale and nervous at Sydney Airport yesterday. Miss Barbara Joyce Russell, an unemployed nursing aide, said the sentence would not deter her from her cause. 
I think the National Service Act is an immoral and unjust law and I won't comply with it in any regard because I feel it is my Christian duty.' 
She was found guilty of handing out a leaflet entitled 'Don't Register for National Service'. As it happens, I do not feel very strongly one way or another about national service. I can see arguments either way on the question of national service as distinct from forcing people to go to Vietnam and fight there. But surely a person is entitled to distribute those sorts of leaflets. That, however, is irrelevant to this case as it exists at present. 
The point is that looking at it in retrospect  Mr Dobson,  SM, was not acting legally last Monday when he fined her $40 or sentenced her to 20 days gaol in lieu of the fine. The Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance is one of the ordinances that was found to be invalid yesterday by the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. Therefore, until this validating legislation is passed, Miss Russell is being detained illegally. It seems obvious to me that she should be released until such time as both Houses of this Parliament decide that the validating legislation should be passed. I approached the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and asked him to release her as she was being held illegally. He told me that I was right on that point but that she should brief counsel to take legal action. She is an unemployed nursing aide. The Commonwealth is going to use Government money - the people's money - to fight this case and postpone it until such time as the validating legislation is passed. I think that this is shocking behaviour. 
He is not interested in people being in gaol. He is interested only in graziers receiving an extra cent for wool. I appeal to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who is representing the Attorney-General in this House - I know that he is one of the few reasonable people on the Government side - to intervene and ask the Attorney-General to behave in a legal fashion on this issue. Here is a girl who, because of her Christian beliefs, feels that she should distribute certain leaflets. She is put in gaol for 20 days. What happened was illegal. The Court of Petty Sessions was not a proper court to deal with her. Another ordinance was gazetted during the night to change that, and this legislation will retrospectively validate the situation. I realise that. But the point is that the Attorney-General should not keep people in gaol on the basis of legislation which may be passed by the Parliament in the near future. He should agree to release the lady. When she appeared in court previously she said that she was prepared to go to gaol if she had broken the law. So there is no reason to fear that she will not return if she is required to do so. 1 think it is completely wrong that the Attorney-General, who does a lot of talking about law and order and who pretends to be a Christian, should treat people in this fashion. When I spoke with him today he agreed with me that she is being held illegally. He said that I should go and get a lawyer to try and get her out of gaol. That is shocking behaviour. I do not think he is fit to be the Attorney-General. I do not think that he is fit to be registered as a member of the Bar in any State of the Commonwealth. I am prepared to debate with him on this issue. The AttorneyGeneral does a lot of talking about law and order. If he is not prepared to enforce the law as it exists in this country at the present time he is unfit to talk about law and order. 
I wish to take only about one minute. I was not in the House at 8 o'clock when the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is at the table, spoke on this issue. I was watching a television interview with  Mr Bob  Hawke. I understand from what others have told me that the Minister suggested that one of the reasons why the Government is not prepared to support our amendment is that I have already raised a different case, and that once the Government accepted this amendment it would be reasonable to accept amendments dealing with every other case that has been dealt with or is likely to be dealt with under the legislation that is being validated by this measure. I would therefore like to read to the Committee and especially to the Minister at the table what I said this afternoon. I have taken a copy from Hansard. 1 said: Therefore, until this validating legislation is passed.  Miss  Russell is being detained illegally. It  seems very  obvious to me that she should  be  released until such time  as  both Houses of this Parliament decide that the validating legislation should be passed. I approached the Attorney- 
General  (Senator Greenwood)  and asked him to release her as she was being held illegally. He told me that 1 was right on that point but that she should brief counsel to take legal action. 
As I pointed out earlier, the only reason 1 rose is to emphasise that I have not asked for charges to be dropped in the case of Miss Russell. As Miss Russell is being detained illegally any decent AttorneyGeneral or decent Government would have released her today and would have taken whatever appropriate legal steps were open to them tomorrow, the day after or on any other day, to deal with her. I repeat that any decent, competent and reasonable Attorney-General who believes in the rule of law and any Government which shares that view would have taken those steps. J have not yet heard from the Minister for Primary Industry who promised before the suspension of a sitting for dinner that he would take up Miss Russell's case with the Attorney-General.I should be pleased to hear the result of his conversation with the Attorney-General who was completely and absolutely hypocritical when he spoke to me earlier. 
I understand that I cannot argue the case with you,  Mr Chairman.  I therefore withdraw my suggestion that the Attorney-General is completely hypocritical. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General received a complaint from a  Mrs N.  Samootin of 100 Kingsley Terrace, Manly, Queensland against a firm of solicitors. 
If so, what investigations has the AttorneyGeneral or his Department carried out in this matter and what is the result of these investigations. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many applications have been made by residents of Australia for the entry into Australia of relatives, dependants and friends, during each of the last 5 years. 
How many of these applications have been (a) approved and (b) rejected. 
What was the country of origin of those seeking admission in each category. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has he received a proposal from the Brotherhood of St Laurence that the Department of Social Services make immediate provisional payments to applicants for Commonwealth pensions and benefits to give families an income at the level they will receive when their application has been finally processed and granted. 
Does the Department of the Interior in the Australian Capital Territory make advance payments to local residents in need who have applied to his Department for benefits and are awaiting the first cheque. 
If this procedure is followed in the Australian Capital Territory, what is the proportion of those receiving this interim payment who are found subsequently to be ineligible for benefits. 
I would like to deal quickly with 3 points. This is the most opportune time for me to raise them. In passing, may I comment that I understand that the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  who has recently returned from an interesting holiday on the north coast of Queensland and on Green Island, made some reference to me tonight. 
-I accept what the honourable member says because I intended to make the same point,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for the 
Navy, upon notice: 
What was the cost of contraceptives and prophylactics against venereal disease supplied to Navy personnel during each of the last 5 years? 
I was interested to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in this place getting all emotional about how impressive it is to live under the protection of the law in this country compared to living in other countries. If this is so, all I can say is that it must be even more depressing to live in other countries, and in most cases this may well be so. Let us see just what the Attorney-General's Department does with the large amount of money that we vote to it every year and specifically what is proposed under this Appropriation Bill. I have previously referred to  a  case in which a young woman, Barbara Joyce Russell, was convicted on 11th September - last Monday - in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions for distributing  a  leaflet. I would argue immediately that if she had been living in the United States she could never have been charged with committing an offence. I can see the gentleman who advises the AttorneyGeneral picking up his piece of paper and his pen so that he can hand a little slip to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who is sitting at the table and who will start talking about conspiracy. 
I suggest that broadly speaking, arguments as to whether people should be able to defy a particular piece of legislation should be covered by the principle of freedom of speech, especially as the person concerned did not give any leaflets to a person who was covered by that Act. In other words, she did not hand a leaflet to a person of the age of 20 who was required under our legislation to immediately register for national service. Let us look at what happened. She was convicted on that day. The following day, the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory held that most of the ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory in fact were illegal and were not proper ordinances. The Government obviously believed that amongst them were some of the ordinances which dealt with the appointment of the magistrate,  Mr Dobson,  S.M., who presided over this case. 
In the meantime, the woman concerned had been transferred to Silverwater Prison in Sydney and was to be held there for 20 days. I suggested to the Attorney-General that she was being held illegally and he agreed. I repeat that. He said: 'That is probably so, but let her take legal action'. That is where we come back to what the Minister representing the Attorney-General in this House said earlier, namely, how well off we are in this country because we can take legal action. Here was a person who was unemployed who had to take legal action against the Attorney-General. I will deal in  a  minute with what happened when she did take legal action. She would be required to pay a lawyer. She would have to obtain legal representation which could cost her thousands of dollars and this Government would just employ  a  barrister - a senior counsel - to appear against her. 
But what happened? Obviously, any reasonable Attorney-General would have taken the line that if in fact she was being illegally held in gaol he should release her. Did the Attorney-General have any doubts about this? Let us see what happened in court in Canberra in those days. On 14th September which was the Thursday - she was still being held in gaol -  Mr Hogg,  who is  Deputy Clerk  of the Australian 
Capital Territory Court of Petty Sessions appeared in court and decided that he would adjourn the cases. He said that the reason for that was that there were no magistrates in Canberra at that time. If there were no magistrates on the Thursday, there were obviously no magistrates on the Monday. If anything, there were magistrates in Canberra on Thursday because honourable members will recall that, at 12.05 on Thursday morning, certain ordinances were again proclaimed. But what happened?  Mr Sheils,  who was one of the barristers representing one of the accused in court that day, asked whether  Mr Hogg  and the senior Australian Capital Territory stipendiary magistrate,  Mr Dobson,  had been appointed under the same ordinance. He was told by  Mr Hogg  that originally both clerks and magistrates had been appointed by the Attorney-General but that this had later been amended and that magistrates had later been appointed by the Governor-General.  Mr Hogg  said that he was appointed by the Attorney-General in 1969 and therefore his appointment was in order. However, the appointment of the magistrates was not a formal appointment. 
Just to put the case quite clearly,  Mr A.  S. Gillespie-Jones another barrister appearing in court that day, asked  Mr Hogg  if he was of the opinion that there was no magistrate present in the building.  Mr Hogg  said he was of that opinion and yet a report states that  Mr Dobson  S.M. and  Mr Pearson  S.M. were seated in the public gallery whilst this discussion was taking place. So it is quite clear that the AttorneyGeneral's Department did not believe that  Mr Dobson  was a properly appointed magistrate even on the Thursday, let alone on the Monday when this case was heard. When some of us decided that this was a ridiculous thing to happen and that we had an Attorney-General who was obviously not prepared to carry out the law but was only prepared to play politics, a barrister appeared in a Sydney court on Thursday and applied for a writ of habeas corpus in public chambers before  Mr Justice  Meares. And what happened? The Solicitor-General was contacted by  Mr Justice  Meares or vice versa and he asked for an adjournment of the case until the following morning so that the case would never come to hearing because they knew that by the following morning they would have the legislation through the Senate which would retrospectively assure the appointment of  Mr Dobson,  S.M., on the previous Monday. 
As the barrister put it to  Mr Justice  Taylor the following morning, it was a specious application by the AttorneyGeneral on behalf of the Commonwealth Government to ask for an adjournment on the Thursday so that the Commonwealth could argue that the appointment of a magistrate was valid, because the Commonwealth Government never believed that the appointment of that magistrate was valid. It is obviously true that they did not believe it.  Mr Hogg  said so on behalf of the Attorney-General's Department that day in court. If it was not true, he was lying because he said that there was no magistrate in court and yet there were 2 so-called magistrates, including  Mr Dobson,  sitting in the public gallery ot the court at that time. The Attorney-General just loves playing politics. He is obviously an incompetent and unscrupulous person to behave in this fashion. I think he behaved completely wrongly and it is a shocking way of behaving for a person who has been sworn in- 
I am prepared to withdraw the remarks because it is quite obvious from the facts that I have given that everybody who is prepared to read this speech and examine the case will come to exactly the same conclusions. Those people will not be bound by parliamentary rules. I suggest that a person such as that is not a fit and proper person to be an Attorney-General, is not a fit and proper person to be a member of Parliament and is not a fit and proper person to be a member of the Bar- 
In summary, because my time has expired, I will put it this way: If the Attorney-General is a fit and proper person to hold that position, there is no person who is not a fit and proper person to hold it. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Mr KEOGH (Bowman) - I thank the Committee for its indulgence. 1 wish to take the opportunity to clarify a point that was made when I believe my integrity was questioned. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  suggested that I had not substantiated some of the remarks I made when I addressed the Committee on the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. 1 want to make it quite clear that I raised this matter at the request of an elector. I did not make any accusations, nor do I desire to make any accusations, in regard to members of this Parliament or senators who have since retired from this Parliament. In rebuttal of the challenge made by the honourable member for McPherson, I refer to the 'Australian' of 5th December 1971. 1 did not base my remarks on this article. To substantiate my remarks, which were based on a letter, I refer to an article written by journalist 
Warren Beeby and headed: 'Mine rated as two-man business'. The article reads in part as follows: 
An eminent Queensland geologist has downgraded the St George antimony deposit of Nickelfields of Australia NL to one-tenth or less of the reserves originally estimated by the company. 
The geologist was  Dr Roger  G. Taylor. The liquidator handled the sale of the assets of the company for a total of  $125,000  which the auctioneer,  Mr Alex  Overett, said was very satisfactory and was in excess of the estimated value. The shareholders, on whose behalf I spoke tonight at the request of an elector of mine, had invested$1. 8m. This newspaper article has never been challenged. Among the directors of Nickelfields were exSenator Malcolm F. Scott, formerly  Chairman, Senator Ian  A. Wood,  Mr Jose  M. Safie, Consul for El Salvador, and Brigadier J. St J. Milne. That is all I wish to say at this moment. I merely mention these facts to make it quite clear to the Committee that I raised this matter in an endeavour to give either the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  or the appropriate Senate committee an opportunity to clear what I would hope to be the good names of the gentlemen referred to. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Proposed expenditure $38,877,000. 
Department of Primary Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $57,510,000. 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $45,137,000. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What sum was claimed for education expenses by taxpayers in the last 3 financial years for which figures are available. 
What was the loss to taxation revenue because of education expenses in each of those years. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has the Board of Inquiry into Health Services in the Northern Territory completed its inquiry. 
If not, when is it expected to do so. 
When will the report be tabled in the Parliament. 
Before discussing the estimates for the 
Department of Health I would first apologise for the absence of many of the doctors who sit on this side of the chamber. The reason they are not here is that we are continually receiving deputations from organisations. 
They have just come in. We have been talking to dentists and surgeons about what will happen next year and we will be speaking with the General Practitioners Society of Australia in a few minutes on the same subject, lt is interesting to note that their discussions with us show that they have no great confidence in the likely re-election of the present Government, and I cannot blame them for that. I would like to deal with some of the relative side issues that arise on the general question of health. One of the problems that is continually emphasised is that of over-usage. It is asked: 'What will happen under the Labor Party scheme if it does not cost the patients anything? There will be great over-usage'. The reason suggested for over-usage is that patients who feel they needed medical attention will just visit their doctor. But what is happening at the present time? At present we have overusage resulting from the suggestions of medical practitioners themselves. We have completely unethical behaviour on the part of medical practitioners who own private hospitals. They suggest to their patients that they have operations in these private hospitals, operations which are often not necessary, or suggest that patients be admitted into the private hospitals for examinations because, in addition to the normal profit they would make, they make a profit from owning those private hospitals. 
Let us look at what used to be the position of the Australian Medical Association when I went through my medical course. I was sent a booklet entitled Handbook for Qualified Medical Practitioners' which includes a chapter on ethical considerations. There, in relation to chemists, it states that a doctor must not arrange with a chemist for the payment of a commission on business transacted, nor hold a financial interest in a chemist shop. It seems terribly reasonable to me that a doctor should not have any additional financial interest in ordering prescriptions or certain treatment for a patient. But this is peanuts compared to what is happening at the present time. The Labor Party health committee has received a deputation from the Federation of Private Hospital Proprietors. Of a total of  7  executive members of the Federation,  4  or  5  are medical practitioners. They own private hospitals. And it is suggested that they do not have a financial interest in putting people into hospital. It is quite fantastic behaviour on their part. The handbook in relation to the doctor and commercial undertakings states: 
A general ethical principle is that a doctor should not associate himself with commerce in such a way as to let it influence, or appear to influence, bis attitude towards the treatment of his patients. 
What more obvious commercial undertaking can a doctor engage in than the owning of a private hospital, which surely must at least appear to influence his attitude to the treatment of his patients, lt strikes me that this would be a corresponding situation to that of a crown prosecutor owning a private prison. 
Or a judge owning a private prison, so that he could make a decision whether he wanted to make an additional profit from sending someone to gaol. It is quite fantastic. The AMA talks about the Labor Party interfering in the sacred relationship where the patient owes money to the doctor, but yet the Association does not interfere in respect of the present behaviour of some medical practitioners. I can put it quite fairly when I say that the majority of medical practitioners are as disturbed about this situation as I am. They think it is ridiculous for the AMA to behave in this way to protect the big boys in the profession who own these hospitals. We know that the doctor who is  president  of the Federation of Private Hospital Proprietors is the Liberal Party candidate for the seat of the Australian Capital Territory. Doctors and the health insurance funds participate in the attack on the Labor Party scheme, and often they overlap in that the same people are involved on behalf of both the doctors and the funds in the publication of such things as the 'AMA News', the 'AMA Gazette', the Health Care Finance' publications and the 
Voluntary Health Insurance Council publication, which are front organisations for the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia and the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and its allies respectively. 
At present they are continually producing new booklets such as one entitled Doctors and Health Insurance', an attack on the Labor Party, and 'Labor Party's Health Scheme', another attack on the Labor Party. In many cases where the publication is a publication of the funds, contributors' money is being used, with the blessing of the Government, to attack the Labor Party. When I talk about 'the blessing of the Government' it is interesting to note that one of the people who has been most active in attacking the Labor Party is a Liberal Party member,  Dr Lionel  Wilson, from one of the Sydney suburbs. He is employed by the Hospitals Contribution Fund and its Health Care Finance organisation to publish one of its booklets called The Second Blessing'. The blessing is the Government's voluntary health insurance scheme. This gentleman is now the Treasurer of the AMA and is using AMA funds, but this is not so bad because AMA members at least have a vote in respect of the disposal of their funds. But in addition HCF funds are being used - and HCF members have no say in the disposal of their funds - to attack the Labor Party. 
Let us look at the propositions that are being put up by medical practitioners. One is that medical practice would collapse under the Labor Party scheme because it is suggested there could be a 25 per cent increase in the work of medical practitioners. They suggest that this increase could not be handled because doctors already are working a 70-hour week. This is quite untrue. I was in medical practice for 20 years and know that if a doctor worked flat out for 70 hours a week he would not be much of a doctor and would be earning such fantastic sums that everybody would know about it. Let us look at what happens at present. On the basis of 6 patients an hour with 10 minutes being allocated to each patient - and I put it to the House that relatively few general practitioners average only 6 patients an hour - and at the present rate of $4 a visit, a doctor would earn $24 an hour or $960 gross in a 40-hour week. If he worked the 70-hour week the medical practitioners talk about his income would be $1,680. Now let us assume that all his patients are pensioners and that he gets $3 for each patient. It would still work out at $18 an hour or $720 in a 40-hour week.  His  expenses at the most would come to something like $200 a week. I have been generous in my allotment for expenses, allowing $120 for salaries, $30 for rent and $50 for private expenses such as car expenses. However, as this doctor is sitting in his surgery his car expenses would not be very high. If we take off the expenses, the doctor treating only pensioners in a 40-hour week would still have an income of $520 a week, or $1300 or $1400 for a 70-hour week. I put it to honourable members that I am quite sure that there are few doctors who in fact work such long hours. There are not enough patients for them to see. Doctors just do not see that many patients. 1 would like to take up many other points, especially concerning what is to my mind a lack of ability on the part of the Department to cost our scheme. I am not necessarily blaming the officers of the Department who seem to be reasonably well paid, judging from the estimates that we are asked to pass now. Perhaps pressure is being put on them by the Acting Minister. I was about to say the present Minister, but he has not been able to talk to the officers of his Department for some considerable time and he has not influenced them in any way. I realise that my time is up but I shall try to take the opportunity during this debate to raise more of these issues. 
In discussing the estimates for the Department of Immigration I do not want to raise the propositions to which I referred in my speech on the Budget. 
That is right. I certainly stick to the propositions I raised but I wish to refer to different aspects tonight. I do not usually take time in this House to congratulate officers of any department, but tonight I wish to refer to one officer of the Department of Immigration. I will not name him but people in the Department will know to whom I am referring. He acted beyond the line of duty. Last Christmas Eve I was approached by a Polish migrant who had about a year before applied for his mother to leave Poland and come to Australia. He applied for a visa for her to be admitted into Australia. It appears that his application was lost and the file could not be found. I lost my temper. I said to the parliamentary liaison officer for the Department of Immigration in Sydney that I hoped the election would come soon so that the people who would be put in charge of the Department of Immigration and other departments would realise that they were dealing with human beings and not with files - that it is terribly important for the migrant in Australia and especially for the relative he is trying to bring out here that there is no delay through loss of files. It is no comfort to them that the relevant file cannot be found. 
I admit that I lost my temper. I did not really expect anything to be done before the new year. The gentleman concerned m the Department apparently took the matter much more seriously than I had expected because at 6 o'clock on Christmas Eve I received a phone call from him at home. He was on his way to Blacktown. The migrant concerned did not live in my electorate but in the electorate of Mitchell. The officer of the Department could not find the address I had given him due to some changes in the nomenclature of the streets. I would like to pay a tribute to him because he obviously realised that when people are trying to get their relatives out from behind the bon Curtain or from other places big issues are involved. It is terribly important that officers of the Department of Immigration always remember that they are dealing with human beings - with individuals. 
I am probably not the only honourable member who has had experience of a problem such as I am about to outline. A group of people is trying to get away from Iraq. I do not usually inquire into religious backgrounds but it appears that they are Christians who form a small minority group in Iraq. All kinds of obstacles are being placed in their way by the Iraqi Government to prevent their coming to this country. They cannot apply for a visa in Iraq. That must be done by their relatives in this country. The people in Iraq must go to Lebanon or Syria to be examined by officers of the Department of Immigration for the purpose of deciding whether they are fit and proper persons to come to this country. 
I make a special plea to the Minister and to the Department of Immigration to realise that the Department is dealing with people who are for practical purposes refugees, political or religious refugees. I do not know a great deal about Iraq. The relatives of these people are in Australia and some of them are living in my electorate. I met them at a naturalisation ceremony and I have met other Iraqis since then. They are certainly very reasonable and able people who should be helped to bring their relatives to this country even if methods outside the usual procedures must be adopted. I recently wrote to the Minister for Immigration concerning a case in which the relatives of a person who has been rejected for immigration are living in Australia. The family has outstanding qualifications. The brother-in-law of the person for whom the family is applying is the head chemist with one of the oil companies in this country. He has degrees from the University of Reading and he has received or is about to receive a Ph.D. from the University of New South Wales. It is an outstanding family. 
His wife's brother has been rejected for admission into this country because his work record is not up to scratch. He is a boy who has just turned 18. For the last year, he has been waiting in Beirut for permission to come to Australia. He must have arrived in Beirut at the age of 17 years, lt is hard to understand just what kind of a work record a person aged 17 years, who is living in a country where apparently he or his family is being persecuted for their religious beliefs, is supposed to have. I appeal to the Minister for Immigration to go out of his way to examine this case and to bring that person to Australia. The  circumstances  involved are tragic and I think that special steps should be taken to bring him to Australia. 
In the two or three minutes remaining to me I would like to repeat a point which arises from the general question of immigration. In addition to the points that have been raised tonight on whether migrants should be allowed into this country, 1 think to some extent we must realise that some of the opposition to immigration has developed because of the popularisation of what is commonly known as zero population growth. It is a proposition which is vaguely mixed up with the general movement referred to as ecology. I think that the concept of zero population growth has developed an almost religious fanaticism about it. There is a theme of the apocalyptic about it. People claim to be able to see - some of them even claim this by the use of computers - and to calculate exactly when the whole world will collapse and when everybody will die or starve because of the way the world's population is increasing. 
I think that every honourable member in this House realises that the increase in the world's population is a disturbing feature and that it would be in the interests of the population as a whole if the increase could at least be slowed down, if not completely stopped. But do not let us get carried away with slogans to the effect that the only way we can teach India not to increase its population is by not increasing our population in Australia and then to go on to the next step and say that the only way we can stop Australia's population increasing is by stopping immigration. The proposition of zero population growth is highly debatable. I draw the attention of the ouse to the fact that computers are being used, but all that is being fed into the computers are certain propositions put forward by the people who use them. 
As somebody pointed out - correctly, to my mind - if those computers had been used in 1870 or 1880 to determine the maximum population growth for New York or London, it would have been decided thai population growth would have to stop in 1920 because everybody would have been up to the neck in horse manure. The proposition to which 1 am trying to draw attention is that we are not aware of the sorts of technological advances that will occur, that may be possible and which, in fact, will be necessary if the population pressure exceeds its present rate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Bureau of Census and Statistics have an estimate of the amount spent by individuals on education. 
If so, what are the latest figures available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What does the amount of $7,000 as a special grant to the States for para-medical services refer to in table 1 of the Annual Report of the Director-General of Health for the year 1971-72. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to Question No. 2529 (Hansard, 18th March 1971, page 1120), will he amplify his reply by supplying figures for individual States. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Are the prophylactics against venereal disease, issued by the Navy, condoms. (Hansard, 20th September 1972, page 1731). 
If so, are they in fact also contraceptives. 
I would like to speak for only 2 or 3 minutes on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. Before I reach the main point that I want to raise I would like to comment on remarks made by the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who referred to Australian aid to Indonesia. They stressed how much we are giving to Indonesia. By interjection I indicated that amongst the things we have given to Indonesia were a racetrack, our broken down horses and a system of automatic totalisator betting. Probably very few honourable members will regret that that particular export to Indonesia seems to be going broke. The honourable member for Cook used grandiose language to describe our aid for overseas countries. 
Let us get down to tin tacks and see what we have in fact done and how much of our aid falls into the same category as the deplorable Jetair Australia Ltd affair. That affair showed that politicians in this country were trying to save some of their political cronies by pumping money into the pockets of those cronies through sending aeroplanes or what-have-you overseas and calling it foreign aid. It is extremely regrettable that such transactions are included as foreign aid. I think the Government should apologise for having done that sort of thing. It should certainly explain to this Parliament how it can come about in this country that the Minister for Foreign Affairs could decide to fish a company out of debt by giving it a large amount of public money while knowing at least one of its directors extremely well as a supporter of the Liberal Party. 
I think what I mean about the Jetair business is fairly clear. It has been widely ventilated. I do not mind talking about it here. The only reason why I am drawing attention to it again is that the expenditure on Jetair aircraft appears as expenditure on foreign aid for overseas countries. Let us look very clearly at what we are doing when we talk about foreign aid. In many cases were are buying up equipment which is useless in this country from people who have politically supported some of the Ministers here. We are paying excessive amounts of public money for such goods, sending them overseas and calling it foreign aid. I think it is deplorable. 
On the contrary. I feel very strongly about the Government of Cambodia and about other countries, but there are certain ways in which aid should be given. If the honourable member for Angas wishes to debate ways of helping the Government of Cambodia I will be very happy to accommodate him. I suggest that the Government of Cambodia can be helped without helping dubious characters such as those associated with Jetair Australia Ltd. Let us come to the more general position of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Department, having received riding instructions from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because of the imminence of the elections, is trying to make every post a winning post. Yesterday a settlement was reached with Indonesia on a subject which apparently had not been discussed by Government committees or by the Cabinet at all. A quick decision was made simply so that it could be said that a decision had been made. It can be added to the relatively short list of decisions taken by the Government. 
Another decision that has been made is to have Australia elected to the United Nations Security Council. To do that we must have the votes of countries which normally do not support us. What are we doing? I put it to honourable members that we are prepared to sell out some of our views and some of our reasonable propositions vis-a-vis the Soviet Union to get the support of that country. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has proudly announced that the Soviet Union will support our election to the Security Council. This contrasts with the behaviour of some Ministers who proudly parade before migrants from captive countries like Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the Ukraine and parts of Poland and speak of support for them against the Soviet Union. They certainly want their votes but what are we doing for them? We are doing everything we possibly can and are coming to secret agreement with the Soviet Union so as to get the 3 Soviet votes - as honourable members know, the Soviet Union has 3 votes - necessary to enable Australia to be elected to the Security Council. I appeal to the Government to think about this. Just winning an election is not really the be-all and end-all of governments in Australia. It should not be the be-all and end-all of Australian governments. I know that members of the Government parties consider it to be the most important thing because they cannot see themselves in any other position. I can see them in another position and I feel quite confident that they will be in a different position at the end of this year. However it is important that they do not do too much damage to Australia's prestige and reputation in the meantime. 
One of the ways in which we have been antagonising the Soviet Union up until now has been by accepting its political refugees into Australia. It has been alleged that for the next few months - until the vote for the Security Council is taken - the Soviet Union should not be antagonised and that the Department of Foreign Affairs has told the Department of Immigration that it should not be sympathetic to people whom the Soviet Union wants to exclude from membership of any outside nation - people whom it wants to get back into its own clutches. There axe allegations that this has been done with respect to a prominent Ukrainian who has escaped fromthe Soviet Union to Vienna. I intend to put a question on notice about this matter. It is important that this sort of procedure should not be adopted. 
I do not have much confidence in the present Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes).  The previous Minister for Immigration, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is sitting at the table at present, was a reasonable sort of bloke when he held the Immigration portfolio. I think basically he was a. humane sort of person who wanted to deal with people as reasonable individuals. He felt sorry for them if they had to leave their own country because of political or religious persecution or whatever other reason. It is important for Australia not to lose its reputation for showing consideration to these people and for being prepared to look after them. I am happy about supporting the right of people to be out of the Soviet Union and in Australia, but we should not be giving them misinformation and pretending we support them while at the same time remaining silent in places where what is said really counts - in the United Nations - and making general statements simply to get support from the Soviet Union on an issue that is not really terribly important to Australia, namely, whether Australia is to be a member of the Security Council next year. This is important only in that it may add to the prestige of this Government which has so little prestige overseas. The Government is anxious to grasp this sort of position so as to be able to tell the Australian people that it is loved by all people overseas. I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service, if he is on speaking terms with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to tell him this when next he sees him. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How much accommodation was there at each of the Commonwealth hostels set aside for migrants on 1st January, 1970, 1971 and 1972 and as at 1st July 1972. 
How many migrants were in residence at each of the hostels on those dates. 
What was the total capital cost of building the units at these hostels. 
How much of this was spent during each of the last 4 financial years. 
askedthe Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many units were unoccupied at each of the Commonwealth migrant hostels on the latest date for which figures are available. 
Will the Government make some of the unused accommodation available for unassisted migrants. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Of the 515,660 granted by the Government to the Regional Conference on Drug Trafficking (Question No. 5896, Hansard. 13th September 1972, page 1374), how much was spent on providing alcoholic drinks for delegates. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Do the appointment cards for discussion of pension claims now contain the following words: If it is difficult for you to understand English you should bring an interpreter with you. The interpreter should not be a relative. 
If so, (a) when and why was the second sentence added to the form, (b) does this condition usually involve the applicant in the expense of hiring a professional interpreter or the interpreter missing a day's work, (c) is it a fact that applicants for pensions are usually not well off financially and (d) could interpreters be supplied by his Department or the Department of Immigration, if notice is given by the applicant. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are the fees for medical services referred to in part A6 of the answer to question No. 4715 (Hansard, 7th March 1972, pages 665-7), which estimates the cost of the Australian Labor Party's Medical and Hospital Health Insurance Scheme, all at the most common fee level or below. 
If not, what proportion of the $290m in estimated fees is above most common fee level. 
What would be the revised estimate if all fees for medical services in 1971-72 were charged at most common fee level or below. 

 ~Mr Chairman - 
There are only 4 minutes to go until the sitting is suspended for lunch. I shall be able to complete my speech in that time. 
When we go outside this chamber we hear criticisms of members of Parliament, especially of Government supporters. I suppose we offend less, because we are members of the Opposition. We hear people referring to members of Parliament as hypocrites. I know that is an expression which it is unparliamentary to use in this chamber. I have been pulled up on a couple of occasions for using it. I should like to speak about the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who I understand is to follow me in this debate. I should like to attack him for assuming a false appearance of virtue or goodness, which I understand is one way of defining a certain word. The reason why I wish to attack the Minister for the Navy is that he goes around his electorate and other places putting on this false appearance of virtue, which I suppose comes easily to him having been a clergyman, and attacks members on this side of the House for what he alleges to be their views and ignoring what his own Government does. I have no objection to what his Government does in the matter which I intend to raise; I am just criticising the Minister for his own attitude. 
Some months ago I put on notice a question to every Minister representing the Services. The question was .along these lines: What was the cost of contraceptives and prophylactics to prevent venereal disease supplied to Navy personnel during each of the last 5 years? The answer sets out that as far as the Navy is concerned between 30,000 and 50,000 condoms or french letters were supplied to Navy personnel in each of those years. I have no objection to the supply of them. I think this is perfectly reasonable. The Minister replied by saying that contraceptives are not issued to Navy personnel; it is only  a  question of prophylactics. When I asked whether or not they could be used for both purposes he said: 
Although they may frequently have the effect of preventing conception, they are not issued for this purpose, but solely- 
I emphasise the word 'solely' -  to prevent the transmission of venereal infection; they are not, therefore, regarded as being contraceptives. 
This is different from the answer I received from other Ministers representing the other Services. 
I should like to put this proposition to the Minister for the Navy just to show up his false appearance of virtue: In view of his answer to my question  doe3  he consider the protection of Navy personnel against venereal disease to be more important than the protection of their partners in sexual activities against unwanted pregnancy? Does he put up that proposition? Secondly, as far as female Navy personnel are concerned, what is the proposition? His Department freely distributes oral contraceptives. I have no objection to the distribution of oral contraceptives to female personnel. But what is the reason for this? Surely he is not going to pretend that the reason for the distribution of oral contraceptives is for the prevention of venereal disease. I suppose he will argue that it is to regularise the menstrual cycles of those people. 
May I speak to the point of order? 

 - Mr Chairman, the answer to the question, which I received on 20th Sep'.ember, pointed out that during the last 5 years something approaching $10,000 was in fact spent by the Department of the Navy for this purpose. So surely the subject I have raised comes under the estimates. As 1 pointed out earlier, 1 am not criticising the Government for using money for this purpose. I think it is an excellent idea. What I am criticising is this assumption of false appearance of virtue and goodness on the part of the Minister who goes around- 
What, we are not supposed to criticise the Minister? ls that a new rule? 
Can 1 congratulate the Minister for in fact using the money provided in these estimates for these purposes, even though obviously he believes that this money should not be provided for these purposes. 
Sitting suspended from 1.2 to 2.15 p.m. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I do not want to take much time on this because I realise that to some extent- 
Motion (By  Mr Giles)  proposed: That the question be now put 
Are we to pass the expenditure of an extra $35m of taxpayers' money without honourable members being allowed to speak? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did private pharmaceutical manufacturers participate in the First Conference of the Commonwealth Pharmaceutical Association in February 1972. 
If so, why did the Government contribute $5,000 (question No. 5896, Hansard, 13th September 1972, page 1374). 
-The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  has just put up quite a good case for the people whom he represents, namely those who selected him for the safe seat of Chisholm and who earn about $20,000 a year or more. I noticed  Mr Peter  Frankel, the  Chairman  of Selected Mining Holdings Ltd, sitting behind the honourable member earlier. It is a pity that about $1.2m of Selected Mining Holdings Ltd subscriptions was lost by that company. The honourable member for Chisholm told us an interesting story about a doctor who worked in 30 different surgeries in the United Kingdom in one year. That does not say much for his employment record. I certainly have had rejected by the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  large numbers of prospective migrants who have much better employment records than that doctor. 
The main point made in the speech of the Minister for Immigration as Minister representing the Minister for Health was: What would the Australian Labor Party do?' It was an extremely pessimistic speech. The Minister said: 'Yes, costs of medical services are increasing at u terrific rate, but what can we do about it? Let the Labor Party tell us about it'. 1 do not blame the Minister for adopting that sort of line. After all, in the last few months, his Government has adopted or gone some way towards adopting Labor Party policies on participatory schemes for nursing homes, which are the responsibility of the department he represents today, a needs concept in regard to Commonwealth secondary school scholarships, foreign ownership, the abolition of the means test, a national superannuation inquiry, a poverty inquiry and urban affairs, the environment and decentralisation. So, if the Labor Party can help all those other departments, why should it not help the department of which he used to be in charge and of which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is now in charge? 
I would also like to comment on the point that the Minister made in claiming that  Mr Justice  Mason had only to make the decision on the question of the higher base line figure - the 1st July 1969 figure - on which the 15 per cent increase in the middle of last year was based. The Minister went on to say that  Mr Justice  Mason found that the claim made by the Australian Medical Association for the higher base line figure was correct. I point out to the Minister - I suppose that, being only the Minister representing the Minister for Health in this House, he does not have to know all the facts - that  Mr Justice  Mason made no such finding. I was the only person to appear before  Mr Justice  Mason to oppose the proposition advanced by the AMA. One would have thought that the Department of Health would have appeared to oppose the proposition. 
The Department did not run dead; it supplied information to help the doctors obtain an increase, unlike the attitude adopted by the Government when it appears before the Arbitration Commission when people are trying to obtain an increase in wages. What  Mr Justice  Mason found was that the Department of Health was unable to supply adequate figures which could distinguish between the proposition put forward by the Australian Medical Association and the proposition which I put forward. He therefore decided to take a figure midway between the 2 points. 
I would argue, firstly, that it is scandalous for a government that has been in power for so long and for a department of health that uses up a large amount of money on administration to be unable to supply a definite base line figure for  Mr Justice  Mason to work on and, secondly, that it is scandalous for the Government not to appear and oppose the proposition advanced by the AMA. I think that there are ways of getting around the argument which occurs with the medical profession every 6 months or so on the question of fee increases. There can be and there should be an agreed method of updating fees. But doctors do not trust the Govern ment, and one cannot blame them for that. Why should they trust the Government? Nobody else in the community trusts it. The saying in regard to  Mr Nixon  in the United States used to be: 'Would you buy a second-hand car from that man?' The saying in regard to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  now is: 'Would you buy a second-hand plane from this man?' I would be happy to sell the Prime Minister a second-hand plane, but I would not be too happy about buying a second-hand plane from him. 
Sitting suspended from 12.57 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker,  before the suspension of the sitting I was criticising the honourable member for Chisholm, who had preceded me in this debate, and was pointing out that he was putting up a case not for the average person in the community but for people in a completely different socio-economic group. I had made certain remarks about  Mr Peter  Frankel and had said that he was literally the man behind the Liberal Party in the sense of sitting behind the Liberal Party benches. I referred to him as the  chairman  of Selected Mining Holdings Ltd. It has been pointed out to me by the honourable member for Chisholm and  Mr Frankel  that at the time Selected Mining Holdings was in financial trouble  Mr Frankel  was not associated with the company. I accept that and I apologise for any harm or hurt that may have, been caused to  Mr Frankel. 
I was dealing also with the very significant increase in medical costs, which is the subject of this debate today. 1 now refer to nursing homes. In 1968 the Government subsidised nursing homes by $25m a year. By 1972 the amount of subsidy had hit $71m a year. Yesterday we passed legislation which the Government predicts will cost another $22m a year in handouts to nursing homes. I have no objection to the existence of nursing homes, but I think it is wrong for the Government to use taxpayers money, firstly, to guarantee a nice profit for private enterprise nursing homes and, secondly, to give those who operate nursing homes in Victoria a fantastic profit. The costs of nursing home accommodation - I am now referring to cost as distinct from charges - in New South Wales and Victoria are very similar. In fact the cost in New South Wales is slightly higher, according to the figures we have received from the Department of Health. The payout promised by the Government in the legislation we passed yesterday to Victorian nursing home proprietors is an extra $600 per year per bed. So the person who owns a 100-bed nursing home, as many people supporting the Liberal Party do, gets a handout of $60,000 per year of taxpayers money. That would pay for about 4 of the DC3 aircraft that the Government bought from Jetair Australia Ltd, provided that they had been paid for at the correct price.  Mr Ken  Thomas the other night said that  Mr Alexander  Barton must have thought that all his Christmases had come at once when the Government paid nearly $50,000 for the Jetair aircraft. What about the nursing home proprietors in Victoria? I think it is important to note that in the legislation we passed yesterday not one penny extra is provided for the charitable, non-profit nursing homes. All of this money is going to people who own nursing homes which are operated for the purpose of making a large amount of money. 
I would like to finish on the point on which I began - how to contain doctors fees. I put to the Government that it has failed because it has never come to an agreement with the medical profession on the basis on which doctors fees should be regulated. All it has said is that every 2 years there will be a discussion about an increase. It is not surprising that doctors are not prepared to believe the Government. Nobody else in the community would believe the Government if the Government said: 'Let us see what will happen in 24 months time'. I am not for one minute supporting doctors in their attempts to get huge increases, because they have had fantastic increases in income during the last 3 years. During that time they have had increases in income from the Government medical benefits scheme of nearly 76 per cent. This is a much higher percentage increase, and of course actual increase, than any other section of the community has received. This Government has been prepared to support that sort of increase for the medical profession whilst it has not been prepared to support any increase to any other employee. In fact, when workers go to the Conciliation and 
Arbitration Commission the Government briefs counsel to oppose employees' attempts to get an increase. But the Government provided the medical profession with a Queen's Counsel to help it prepare its case for an increase. 
I would like to take a couple of minutes to raise a point that worries me. I am one of those who, unlike the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has on  3  occasions been on aircraft which have been forced to land and who has told us that he did not have any fear, has never been on a plane that has been in trouble. But I am always pleased when the plane on which I am travelling puts down. Having said that - and having established my credentials as a coward - 1 should like to raise the broad question of balancing the proposition of hijacking against the proposition of giving refuge to political refugees in the case of countries from which it is impossible for these people to leave without committing some crime against that country, by the definition in that country's criminal code or method of enforcing its criminal code. 
There is no doubt about how we should regard the hijacking of planes for the purposes of extorting money or for any of the other purposes that have been raised by honourable members from both sides of the House today; but I can see the proposition that people might try to leave the Soviet Union, East Germany or other countries such as these when there is no legal way in which they can do so. I am not an expert on enumerating all of the countries which fall into that category. But let us face it: There are many countries in the world today in which there is no freedom of travel or no freedom to leave the country. If a person who considers himself to be a political refugee has to take the step of hijacking a plane - let us say a plane going from Moscow to Warsaw - because he feels that this is the only way in which he can get out of the Soviet Union, and uses what we would all agree to be extremely unpleasant methods to force the pilot to fly that plane to Bonn, or some other city in West Germany or the nearest airport in a free country, are we prepared to say that that person is to be returned to that country? He has committed no other crime - and I emphasise the words 'no other crime' - and his basic crime, I think we would all agree, so far as his own country is concerned, is that he wants to leave that country without having permission from the state, which does not consider the right to leave the country to be a right of its citizens. I have grave doubts about this. I do not think the issue is as nicely black and white as people might consider it when they talk about somebody trying to hijack a plane and making threats. This often occurs with planes flying over the United States, which country a person is perfectly free to leave if he wishes to do so. In fact, as I understand it, the United States provides free transport for anybody who wants to leave and go to Cuba, provided he does so on a permanent basis. In those circumstances, if a person hijacks a United States plane and insists on being paid a ransom and so on, obviously that person commits a crime. The same situation would apply the other way around if the authorities in Cuba allow their people to leave that country. I am not quite sure what the position is at present but I remember that some time ago Cubans were able to leave Cuba for the United States provided the United States paid what I will call a ransom payment to the Cuban Government. But the position is different in some countries. 
It is easy for us to pass this legislation because it really has no application in Australia. It is unlikely that any plane coming from a country where those sorts of conditions exist would land her. I just wanted to draw the attention of the House to the fact that I, for one, have some doubts in my mind when I hear countries which have a complete disregard for the freedom of the individual, such as the so-called Iron Curtain countries, making pious statements about signing conventions on the extradition of hijackers. As far as I see it, the proposition is a one way affair because there will be no political refugees who will find it necessary to hijack planes to leave countries outside the Iron Curtain to get inside the Iron Curtain, but there will be people who consider that to be a necessary means of getting out from behind the Iron Curtain. 
I felt that I should make that point this afternoon in order to indicate that not every honourable member in this House is in complete agreement with the proposition that if people leave some of those countries and find it necessary to use illegal means to do so - and, after all, whatever means they use to leave those countries will be illegal - they should not necessarily be treated as criminals and returned to their country of origin to be dealt with there. We must remember that they will be dealt with there not only because they hijacked a plane but alos - and mainly - because they completely disagree with the political set-up in that country. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
In view of the absence of the names of some Ministers from the list of those who appeared on the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'This Day Tonight' during the 12 months ended 31st July 1972 (Question No. 5994, Hansard. 12th September 1972, page 1248), how many times and on what dates did the following Ministers refuse to appear on the programme: (a)  Hon.  Charles Edward Barnes, (b)  Hon.  Rendle McNeilage Holten, (c)  Hon.  Peter James Nixon, (d)  Hon.  Andrew Sharp Peacock, (e)  Senator the Hon. Sir Kenneth  McColl Anderson, (f)  Senator the Hon.  Robert Carrington Cotton, (g)  Senator the Hon.  Thomas Charles Drake-Brockman and (h)  Senator the Hon.  Reginald Charles Wright. 
asked the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an advertisement inserted repeatedly in the Sunday edition of The New York Times during April 1972 by Airways International in which it was stated that it was approved by the Australian Tourist Commission. 
If so, what does this approval signify. 
Can he say when Airways International first failed to honour its obligations to its clients. 
Can he also say whether Airways International is now in liquidation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has he received an application from Vladimir Andreyevich Kolesnik and his family, formerly of Kiev, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and now of Vienna, Austria, to enter Australia as permanent immigrants. 
Can he say whether  Mr Kolesnik  was formerly conductor and managing director of the Kiev Opera. 
Will he give favourable consideration to this application from a political refugee. 
Will he ignore any representations to prevent  Mr Kolesnik's  admission as part of a bargain to obtain USSR support for Australia's election to the Security Council of the United Nations. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Did a survey conducted by his Department in 1969 estimate that an additional 100,000 women would join the work force if adequate child-minding centres were available. 
Does he expect the Child Care Bill to provide these facilities. 
If so, (a) how many additional women are now likely to join the work force and (b) where will they find jobs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the names and addresses of the home nursing organisations eligible for subsidies which were established (a) before September 1956 and (b) subsequently, 
How many nurses are employed by each of these organisations. 
How many of these nurses have their salaries subsidised by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he estimate the loss to taxation revenue from the use of cost companies (Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 - Overseas Investment in Australia, page 83) in (a) the petroleum industry, (b) the mining industry and (c) other industries for the latest financial year for which estimates can be made. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that there has been a recent increase in Aboriginal infant mortality to over 200 per 1,000 births in parts of the Northern Territory. 
If so, is this one of the reasons why an inquiry into health services in the Northern Territory has been set up, one of its specific objects being to inquire into and report on all aspects of medical services provided to the Territory's Aboriginal people. 
ls the high infant mortality causing concern to the Government. 
If so, why does the Commonwealth advertise the fact that it will not accept responsibility for expenses incurred in making a submission or appearing before the inquiry. 
Will he have discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs with a view to persuading him that money spent on entertaining America Cup competitors and hangers-on would have a more beneficial result for Australia's overseas image, if spent on reducing Aboriginal infant mortality. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is Commonwealth Savings Bank interest calculated on the lowest amount in an account on a monthly basis. 
Is the same method used by the other savings banks in Australia. &lt;3) Can he say whether savings banks in the United States of America calculate interest on a daily basis. 
If so, would there be any difficulty in changing to this method in view of the computers now in use by the banks. 
Are there any figures available, in respect of the Commonwealth Savings Bank or any of the other banks, of interest forgone by depositors because of the monthly method of calculation compared with the daily method. 
Is interest on loans from savings banks calculated on a monthly or daily basis. 
1 should like to raise one point concerning the time taken when there are 2 divisions close together, as happened this morning. In these instances there is a division on the motion that the question be put, followed immediately by a division on the original motion. The total time taken this morning to decide what was in effect one division was 1.7 minutes. This is a deplorable situation. This morning the bells rang for 2 minutes and counting followed for about 6 minutes, after which there was a fraction of a minute before the next question was put. On occasions such as this all honourable members are still in the chamber, but it is necessary to ring the bells for another 2 minutes - the new proposal is for 3 minutes - before the count takes place on the second division. 
I suggest that the method of counting used in this place is quite preposterous. We have this ridiculous method of checking every name. I have no doubt that as the Whips become more conversant with the names of new members and can identify them more readily the time involved in counting will be reduced by 1 or 2 minutes. Nevertheless, it will still be a very long job. Even at the end of the last Parliament about 4 minutes was taken each time to count a division. If there are 2 divisions, one immediately following the other - for example, a division on the motion to apply the gag followed by a division to resolve the motion before the Chair - at least 15 minutes will be required. Some method should be found by those whose responsibility it is to devise methods to increase the efficiency of the House, to improve on that. I do not care what method is adopted, but it must be possible to find a more simple way of counting a division even if it is necessary to do away with traditions that have existed since Federation such as the alleged granting of VIP aircraft for leaders of the Australian Country Party. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I preface my question by pointing out that Parents Centres (Aust.) is a non-profit voluntary organisation of parents pooling and providing information. Questions on breast feeding require special knowledge, so this organisation applied for a new telephone number to be shown under the subheading 'breast feeding'. It was informed that a D notice on the phrase 'breast feeding1 had been issued by the Postmaster-General. Will the new Minister review the case for inserting in the telephone directory the words which the previous administration found offensive and tell his department that breast feeding is unlikely to deprave or corrupt? 
The speech of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  was a typical whingeing speech of a member of the Australian Country Party. Under the old Administration all that they could whinge about were floods and droughts but now there is also this Government's policy. The honourable member was consistent. He spent half of his time saying that he wanted more money given to the Repatriation Department and the provision of greater benefits but at the same time asked where the money would come from. I rise partly to congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  on the legislation that has been introduced as part of the Government's general legislative programme for social security in respect of repatriation and other pensioners and partly to raise one particular case for the attention of the Minister. I have already written to the Minister who, of course, is in another place, but I hope that what I raise in the House today also will be drawn to his attention. I refer to a sergeant in the Royal Australian Air Force, the son of one of my constituents, who was stationed in Malaysia last year. On 29th October 1972 at Butterworth in Malaysia he was allegedly assaulted by a number of British servicemen. During the assault the sergeant was kicked in the head at least once and possibly several times by one of the soldiers and suffered brain damage which is likely to be permanent. The 
British soldier concerned has been charged with assault and will be tried by a British court martial. I will not go into that aspect. But what will now happen to the sergeant from the RAAF? It is apparently accepted all round that there was no provocation on the part of this sergeant. He was the innocent party in the assault. No final medical assessment has been made but the indications are that he will be grossly retarded and must be discharged from the RAAF as permanently medically unfit in due course. 
One of the actions which this Government took very early in its administration last December was to make it possible for servicemen or their dependants to elect to take benefits under either the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act or the Repatriation Act. However, as this man was injured at the end of October 1972, some 5 weeks before the election, he is apparently not covered by the new provisions. The Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act was amended in 1971 to cover all servicemen stationed in Malaysia. I must admit that I cannot recall all the dicussion that took place on that occasion. 
The Act stipulates that servicemen are covered only for injuries received while on duty. Therefore if a serviceman is on weekend leave he is not covered by the Commonwealth Employees Compensation. Act unless he is injured on the way to or from his barracks. This assault took place in the early hours of Sunday morning when he was on leave. Therefore he is not covered by the Act. I assume that he would have been covered by repatriation legislation if Butterworth had been in a war zone because he would have been on active service at the time. Because Butterworth does not come under that classification this serviceman is not covered under the Repatriation Act. As I have said, he does not seem to be covered by the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. 
It appears that he will be permanently unemployable when he is discharged from the RAAF. At present it appears that unless the Government makes a special decision to make its early December decision retrospective to late October 1972 - this would be a backdating of about 6 weeks - the only possible compensation that he will receive will be under  a  United Kingdom Act which deals with compensation for victims of crimes. I have taken steps to obtain  a  copy of this Act But it seems that the total amount involved in compensation from this source will be a maximum of Only about £Stg. 1,000. Obviously this amount will not cover this young man, who has a family, for the rest of his life. The RAAF has been very co-operative and its legal officers have done a lot of work for him. They have helped me in the preparation of the case. The RAAF apparently is prepared to keep this serviceman on for a period of 12 months because he was injured while on overseas service. But when this period expires on 29th October this year he will not be eligible for compensation or benefits under the Repatriation Act. I therefore ask the Minister to make retrospective the amendments to the Act which were proposed in December 1972 soon after the election of the new Government. This man, and his family, should receive some sort of compensation. After all, he would not have been in Butterworth and exposed to the risk of the assault which he suffered if he had not been serving in the Australian forces. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the re-election , of a French Government pledged to perform further nuclear tests, can the Minister confirm reports that the French Government has invited Australian experts to check on safety precautions? If so, will the Government accept the invitation? In view of the Minister's previous representations to the -Peking Government when he was Leader of the Opposition, will he ask the new Australian ambassador in Peking to raise at the earliest opportunity the question of Chinese nuclear tests? Finally, will he ask the Chinese Government at least to allow foreign experts to check on safety precautions in relation to its tests which, admittedly, are performed inside its own territory? 
I start by reassuring any females who may have been listening to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that one does not catch venereal disease only from taking the pill; there are other ways. I was interested to observe that the honourable member for Boothby noticed that the clock had stopped. He apparently takes some interest in the time but is not aware that it is 1973. The proposition put forward by the honourable member for Boothby seemed extremely confused. He trotted out all of the arguments against including oral contraceptives and other contraceptives in the pharmaceutical free list and for removing the sales tax on contraceptives and concluded by saying: 'I support the measure. I wish we had introduced it earlier.' That is certainly an interesting way of arguing. However I do not intend to deal with the arguments of the honourable member for Boothby because they were almost nonexistent. 
I shall take only a few minutes in debating this Bill; I will not take up the 20 minutes available to me. This afternoon, interestingly, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  probably in his capacity as shadow Treasurer, spoke on this measure. I was impressed by the new speech writer who had written the first part of his speech because I certainly agree with the general proposition as expressed to that stage, namely, that the question of the abolition of the sales tax and the inclusion of oral contraceptives in the list of items available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme was, of course, a focus of symbolical significance to women. There is no doubt about that even though sometimes, I must admit, as one who supported the abolition of sales tax and so forth, that I was somewhat depressed by reasonably intelligent women arguing the way the previous Government had argued, namely, that many people in the community who became pregnant were unable to take the pill because of the cost I do not accept that argument. The previous Government, of course, did accept that proposition and having accepted it decided not to include the pill on the pharmaceutical list. I find that rather remarkable. 1 draw attention to the costing by the previous Government of the Labor Party's health scheme. This appeared in an answer by  Dr Forbes  to a question on notice last year. He was talking about the estimated cost of the Labor Party's proposal to make oral contraceptives free as a pharmaceutical benefit. He claimed this would cost between $26m and $3 6m a year. Apparently the estimated cost has now dropped to $5m. To illustrate the main argument used then I quote from the answer of  Dr Forbes  as follows: 
The estimate of the number of women who might use oral contraceptives if they were listed as benefits is based on a total population of women, 18 years to 45 years of age, at 31st December 1970 of 2,346,614. 
It is estimated that at present between 700,000 and 725,000 women are using oral contraceptives. 
It has been assumed that 50 per cent of women in the 18 to 45 years age group who do not at present use oral contraceptives would use them if they were free and that those at present using them would continue to use them. 
On this basis it is estimated that a total of 1,536,000 women would use oral contraceptives if they were free. 
This is a remarkable argument. The argument is that there were, according to the previous Government, about 815,000 women who were unable to use oral contraceptives even though they wanted to use them, because they did not have the money for them. The total cost of oral contraceptives, of course, is not exceedingly great. It was, as the Leader of the Opposition put it this afternoon, of symbolic significance only, though, as I said, I was rather depressed that some women seemed really to believe the facts as put by the then Government. The cost to women was somewhere between $1.25 and SI. 50 per month, or approximately 30c to 40c a week. I find it difficult to believe that there were about 815,000 women in Australia who wanted to use the pill and were unable to afford that amount. In fact, when I asked the then Minister in a follow up question the basis of the reasoned estimate, as he described it, given in an earlier answer which enabled him to say that an additional 824,000 Australian women would use oral contraceptives if they were available free as pharmaceutical benefits, the then Minister replied: 
The estimate was based on an assessment of information provided ... by the pharmaceutical industry on the number of women using oral contraceptives, statistics on the population of females . . . and Departmental experience related to the listing of new items as benefits and the removal of restrictions on existing benefits. 
So the previous Government calculated the number of women who would use oral contraceptives, if they were included in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, on the same basis as it might calculate if aspirin or any other sort of tablet were included on the list Obviously it is a ridiculous method of calculating. I should like briefly to mention one other topic. I want to attack honourable members on this side of the House and on the other side, as well as the people who are not in the House at all, who are rabid supporters of the zero population growth movement. I do not attack them so much on the basis of what they argue. I think one can argue for or against their belief. Rather, I am concerned about the almost hysterical attitude that is developing among them. They now argue - to some extent one can support this sort of argument - that we might change the legislation dealing with abortion on the basis that a woman is entitled to say whether she wants to have babies. I think that is a reasonable argument. I do not accept it completely but at the same time I see it as a reasonable argument oh the part of women that they should have control and should be able to decide whether they are to be mothers, even at a stage when they have conceived. But I do not accept the proposition put up now that anyone who opposes ZPG is in fact attacking women's rights. 
I do not think women, or even men, in our society have any more right to tell other women that they should have children than they have to tell them that they should not have children. I strongly objected to the proposition which was current in this country and which certainly was current in places such as pre-war Germany where the state itself encouraged women to have children and where it insisted that it was in the national interest for them to do so. In countries such as Germany women were told that they should have children for the sake of the state. I strongly objected to that proposition. But on the same basis I also object to the proposition that to oppose the principle of ZPG is somehow an attack on the rights of women. This type of thinking comes into exactly the same category as telling women to have children. I think it is purely a personal matter for a woman to decide whether she is to have a child. 
I think it is almost impossible to advance any reasonable argument in Australia to support the contention that a woman who has more than 2 children is harming this country. In any case, even if families with more than 2 children were harming this country I think that a woman is perfectly entitled to weigh the pluses and minuses and to come to her own decision. I wanted to raise the point in the House tonight that there are quite reasonable and intelligent people - and I am therefore surprised at their attitude - who will argue that there is some right on the part of the state to tell women not to have children, but will accept the proposition that there is no right on the part of a state to tell women to have children. 
I commend the legislation before us to the House, if on no other basis than on the basis that sales tax on oral contraceptives and other contraceptives is a regressive form of taxation and I am therefore opposed to it. I believe that taxation as far as possible should be raised by the progressive method and that people such as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  should pay more than people who are not so well off. I think that is a proposition which is terribly important. I support the proposition that we remove sales tax on contraceptives, as on most other items in our society. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. In view of stories, especially one in yesterday's Sydney Sun', alleging that former citizens of Yugoslavia are worried about being deported to Yugoslavia, will he give an undertaking that no citizen of Australia will be deported and that no unnaturalised person living in Australia will be deported without due process of law and, if deported, will not be deported to any totalitarian country? 
I will detain the House for only a couple of minutes. I wish to speak in support of the proposition to set up a joint committee on foreign affairs and defence. I think that it is extremely important that as many honourable members as possible become acquainted with the fairly intricate aspects of foreign affairs and defence and do not leave it all to the executive Government to make decisions which then have to be accepted by this Parliament and by the nation. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  raised the question as to whether the Omega installations were a matter of shipping, transport, foreign affairs or defence. I think that if somebody claims that a particular issue is one of foreign affairs and defence it is reasonable for the joint committee on foreign affairs and defence to examine it to see whether there are foreign affairs and defence aspects involved. If the committee is convinced that the Omega installations have nothing to do with foreign affairs and defence I assume that the committee will make that sort of recommendation to this House. I think it ought to be one of the most valuable aspects of this committee that members of the committee can call evidence and make decisions without being under strong party pressure and can come to some reasonable conclusions. 
I sometimes despair when I listen to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who was our former Foreign Minister but, on the other hand, I am pleasantly surprised that we did not become involved in many more wars when he was, until recently, our Foreign Minister. He made the point - he thought it was a strong point - that this Government's policy since December 1972 has been what he called one of parallelism with Peking and Hanoi. He is entitled to have that point of view but I disagree with it, obviously. He went on to say that this was proved by the fact that the Government is now thinking of joining the non-aligned nations. Is he suggesting that the non-aligned nations policy is one of parallelism with Peking and Hanoi? Surely that is not the case. Surely the little he learnt about foreign affairs during his connection with the Department of Foreign Affairs must have convinced him that there are quite significant differences in attitudes and policies between the so-called non-aligned nations and Peking and Hanoi. I think that shows very clearly, if the former Minister for Foreign Affairs needs some education on foreign affairs, how much more important it is to educate the other members of his Party who will be joining this committee. I strongly urge this House to support the establishment of this committee so that it can be an active committee and so that it can call many experts before it and be able to make intelligent appraisals of what our foreign policy and our defence policy ought to be. I strongly commend the resolution to the House. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I suppose it is fitting that you should be in the chair at the present time since your seat, according to the latest census figures, contains the smallest population in New South Wales. It is a pity that the hon- ourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson),  who is a Country Party member and strongly supports that Party and who, judging by his maiden speech is probably also a member of the League of Rights, is not in the House at the moment because he strongly supports the present system of distribution of electorates and the present system of voting. I intend to seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the figures for the Division of McMillan. The figures show that the honourable member for McMillan received 8,282 primary votes in the last Federal election which amounted to 16.63 per cent of the vote in the Division of McMillan. 
He won in the finish. However, it is interesting that the honourable member received 8,000 votes and won whereas a person like myself had to get 36,000 votes to win. 
Thank you very much. I assume that if I were a member of the League of Rights I would not have received 36.000 votes; I probably would have received less than 8,000 of the votes cast in my electorate. I seek leave to incorporate the figures for the Division of McMillan in Hansard. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who led for the Opposition in the debate on this legislation made 2 criticisms of the Bill. One criticism related to the question of the cost involved and the other was his allegation that certain people could obtain a pension who should not be entitled to it; the honourable member for Corangamite said that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will fix that up with his amendment. I should like to quote a report of remarks made by a spokesman for the honourable member for Mackellar who, until fairly recently, was the Minister for Social Services in the previous Government. He was referring to the costs involved in such a scheme in a statement which he issued on Australia Day. The report states:   . . the spokesman for  Mr Wentworth  said he had 'no idea' of the numbers of people who would classify for Australian pensions overseas. He said the new scheme would cost Australia 'virtually nothing'. 
This was because the Government had to pay pensions for people living in Australia. In addition it had to pay for postal, transport and other pensioners' concessions. 
The spokesman said that in fact the new scheme could result in a 'net saving' for the Government. 
It is interesting to note that when the honourable member for Mackellar, as Minister for Social Services introduced into the House what was a far worse scheme than this one, he said that the more people who applied for pension portability, the greater the saving would be, but he claims that under our proposition when more people take advantage of the scheme extra costs will be involved. 
The Bill that we have introduced, in fact, is similar to the Bill we introduced in March last year when we were in Opposition. The then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  introduced a Bill because we knew that the previous Government was not prepared to do anything. Finally, just before the elections, the previous Government introduced its legislation. However, it put all kinds of restrictions on the portability of pensions. It provided for a 20-year residential period instead of 10 years, which is the normal qualifying period for age pensioners who choose to stay in Australia and insisted on reciprocal agreements with other countries. Those are the 2 main differences between our legislation and the legislation introduced by the previous Government. There is no need for reciprocal agreements and we will stick to the 10-year residential qualification which applies to people who receive a pension in Australia. The Government can see no reason why, once people are in receipt of the pension, they are not entitled to take it wherever they wish. 
In fact, the Government has extended this principle in another piece of legislation that has already been introduced by the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I refer to the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) which will be debated next and which, in fact, could well have been debated in conjunction with this Bill. The Repatriation Bill (No. 2) applies exactly the same principle to repatriation pensioners. People are entitled to take those pensions wherever they like. It should not be dependent upon whether Australia has achieved some allegedly reciprocal agreement with another country. The previous Minister talked big about the reciprocal agreements. In fact, all he did was to send cyclostyled letters to a number of embassies or consulates in Australia and he expected those other countries to take up the question of reciprocal agreements. 
Yes, but the point was that there was no necessity for those reciprocal agreements; they made no difference whatever to what was happening. As far as Australian citizens are concerned, the reciprocal agreement is unnecessary. This Government decided that a person who has become eligible for the pension in Australia is entitled to take the pension wherever he wants to go. in exactly the same way as pensioners from many other countries do at present. 
When 1 spoke to the similar Bill which was introduced last year by the Opposition and was defeated by the previous Government, I pointed out that in a comparable country to our - the United States of America - a larger proportion of people who were eligible for the age pension would have originated from overseas because the main period of migration of young people to the United States was in the 1920s or early in the twentieth century. I pointed out that, in the United States, out of 13 million pensioners, only 108,000, or less than 1 per cent - about .8 per cent - lived overseas and of all the pensions and benefits paid for retired persons, only 8.8 per cent were paid overseas. In 1969, this figure amounted to $US17m of a total payment of more than $US2,160m. In return for that expenditure of $US17m, or whatever would be the corresponding amount in this country, there is, of course, a saving on fringe benefits. There is no necessity to provide nursing home and hospital benefits or the other fringe benefits which go with the age pension. Therefore, 1 suppose, it is in the economic interests of the Australian community that as many pensioners as possible go overseas. I do not suggest that they should go overseas for that reason, because I take a humanitarian view of the position. But if people want to argue purely on an economic basis, it is in fact in the economic interests of Australia that pensioners take their pensions overseas. 
I think it is important when discussing this legislation to pay tribute to many of the people who worked hard during the last few years to try to persuade the previous Government to bring in this type of legislation. The previous Government failed to do so and I suppose, to some extent at least, it could be said that this was part of the reason for the previous Government now being on the Opposition benches. Certainly, in certain seats such as the seat of Evans in Sydney and probably in other seats in Australia, the reaction of many of the local people who were naturalised Australians was very strong against the Government. Among the people to whom 1 should like to pay tribute are the publishers of the Italian newspaper 'La Fiamma' which organised a petition and obtained 73,000 signatures for that petition which it then presented to the previous Prime Minister. In New South Wales alone it obtained nearly 36,000 signatures, and in Victoria 22,000 signatures to this petition were obtained. 
The people felt very strongly about this matter. Many thousands of people felt strongly about it as being a right - an entitlement - even though they had no intention of leaving Australia, to obtain their pensions overseas. They simply felt that it should be a right available to them. In some cases people have certain emotional ties with their country of origin. Honourable members hear of people who are in their 70s or even older who decide that they want to return to Italy, Greece or Germany or some other country to die. As one who came from overseas I certainly do not have any emotional ties of that nature but I think we should respect that that sort of emotion tie is felt by many people. It is a pity that in Australia there are people from the so-called Iron Curtain countries who would experience some difficulty, for political reasons, in returning to those countries. 
The newspaper 'La Fiamma' was one of the organisers for this type of legislation. Other people who worked very hard for it and to whom a tribute should be paid include members of the Maltese community led by its High Commissioner,  Mr Joe  Forace. He helped to put pressure on the previous Government in the sense of supporting on behalf of the Maltese Government and the Maltese Labour Party, which, in fact, is in power, efforts to bring about this sort of legislation. Even organisations which on purely political matters one normally would expect to have supported the previous Government came out strongly in support of the Labor Party's proposed legislation and strongly against the previous Government's legislation. I refer particularly to the United Council of Immigrants. It is interesting to note the types of organisation which make up the United Council of Immigrants. They are organisations many of which one would normally find sympathetic to the previous Government on other political issues. Those organisations are the Central Council of Croatian Associations in Australia, the Italian Welfare Centre Co. As. It. in Sydney, the Netherlands Society of Sydney, the Association of Australian Slovacs, the Swiss Club of New South Wales, the Ukrainian Society of New South Wales, the Federal Council of Polish Associations, the Estonian Society in Sydney, the Hungarian Council of New South Wales, the Latvian Community in Sydney, the Lithuanian Community in Sydney, the Maltese Community Council of New South Wales and the Australian Romanian Association. 
AH of these organisations were very upset by the attitude of the previous Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I remember attending a meeting in the Paddington Town Hall last year to which the previous Minister had been invited some 2 to 3 months earlier to express the then Government's point of view. The former Minister refused to attend, pleading absence - I cannot remember whether from Australia or from Sydney - on that very day. The relevant point, however, was that he did not bother sending anyone in his place. He was always very happy to send anyone from  Mr Les  Irwin to  Mr Douglas  Darby to any of the meetings of those organisations when it only meant attacking the Labor Party, but when it meant actually doing something for the immigrants involved who were represented by the organisations he squibbed it. I am sure that from a political viewpoint it cost the previous Government dearly during the last election campaign. 
La Fiamma', which ran the campaign for the pensioners among the Italian community, obtained some 73,000 signatures to a petition. It also ran a poll independently some months later to determine how the people who read La Fiamma' would vote in the last Federal elections. It was interesting to discover that almost 90 per cent of the readers of that newspaper, which has by far the largest readership of any foreign language publication in Australia, particularly among the Italian community in Australia, said they would vote for the Australian Labor Party. I do not blame them. There were many reasons why they should vote for the Labor Party, one being that it promised to introduce the sort of legislation which is now before the House. I congratulate the Minister and the Government for introducing this legislation so early in the life of this Government. It is important because many people are waiting to go overseas and to take advantage of this legislation which, of course, is not being made retrospective. A person who has applied for and is receiving a pension will be able to apply for the transfer of that pension after the date of proclamation of this legislation. 
I strongly oppose the amendment foreshadowed by the honourable member for Mackellar, especially the proposition which states: 
Where the Director-General is satisfied that a person has become resident in Australia solely or mainly for the purpose of establishing eligibility for a pension, he may determine that some or all of any pension for which that person has become eligible should not be paid while that person is absent from Australia. 
The proposition is that a person must be in Australia for 10 years to become eligible for the pension. The proposition is ridiculous. A person becomes eligible for a pension when he or she is aged 65 or 60. A person, according to the proposed amendment, allegedly will come to Australia for 10 years with the aim of obtaining- 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation, upon notice: 
What subsidy has Connair, formerly Connellan Airways, received in each of the last 10 years. 
Were tenders called for by the previous Government before awarding those subsidies. 
Will the present Government call for tenders before granting subsidies to Connair. 
Can he say whether Connair provided free transport for Country Party candidates in the Northern Territory. 
-I should like to raise 2 points this evening. One deals with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. In the 'National Times' of 19th March of this year, a Robert Mayne, who I understand is Associate Editor of the 'SunHerald' in Sydney, wrote an article on how ASIO exceeds its charter. In that article he claimed that he was approached by a New South Wales Liberal member of the Legislative Assembly, who was later shown to be  Mr Peter  Coleman, and a senior officer of ASIO to edit a magazine called 'Analysis'. The aim of this magazine was to discredit Australian Labor Party members and others. The article stated that the ASIO officer had offered to give him information to help to discredit ALP members and that in fact this information was given to him and it is at present in the possession of the 'Herald' organisation; that  Mr Coleman  had said at the interview that he had access to ASIO information and used it in the New South Wales Parliament and in articles he wrote - J assume for the 'Bulletin' for which he was writing at that stage. 
I think this is a terrible thing for ASIO to do. I think it is important for this Government to have a departmental inquiry to find out who that ASIO officer was. He is supposed to be a senior officer, according to  Mr Mayne.  This officer should be disciplined appropriately. He is certainly not a person who should be employed in ASIO if he is prepared to become involved in Australian party politics. I think even the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  with whom I often disagree, would agree that it is not the job of ASIO to get involved in arguments inside Australian political parties. In addition, it is necessary for our Government to indicate clearly to ASIO that it is not ASIO's job to get involved in any sort of politics. 
I would object to it just as much if it were done the other way around - if information were leaked by ASIO to some newspaper run by the Australian Labor Party or a newspaper supporting our point of view. I would not agree to the providing of information obtained from ASIO files linking members of the present Opposition with, for example, the Rhodesian Government or the Rhodesian Information Centre. It is most important that any security intelligence organisation clearly keeps away from interna) politics, if it has to exist at all. 
The second point I raise  -  I was reminded of it by the speech by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  - is on the question of the Rhodesian Information Centre. I should like to draw a comparison between 2 cases in which apparently a Commonwealth Government took action which was held to be at least prima facie contrary to the law. I am not necessarily supporting the decision by the Postmaster-General's Department to cut off telephone communications or mail to the Rhodesian Information Centre. Whilst I strongly oppose the line taken by Rhodesia and by the Rhodesian Information Centre I think that excellent arguments can be offered in favour of allowing all points of view to be disseminated freely in Australia. I have doubts as to whether one should have attempted to cut off communication facilities. The Rhodesian Information Centre immediately took steps to get an injunction against the Commonwealth Government, the Postmaster-General or the PostmasterGeneral's Department. An interim injunction was granted by  Mr Justice  Gibbs for one week on the day the action was taken. I think the case has now been referred to the Full High Court for decision. 1 have no complaint about that. 
However, I wish to compare this case with a, to my mind, similar case last year which certainly made me strongly aware that the previous Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  was a person completely unfit to be AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth of Australia. Honourable members who were here last year will recall the episode when it was suddenly discovered that certain ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory were held to be invalid by a judge in Canberra. Amongst the ordinances held to be invalid were ordinances dealing with the appointment of magistrates in the Australian Capital Territory. The day before this decision was given a young woman, Barbara Russell, was convicted of handing out leaflets urging people not to register for national service. She belonged to some Christian activist organisation. She was not connected with any political party, not that this is very relevant to her treatment under the law, but it shows that if anything the Government of the day should have taken more steps to protect her civil liberties. She was convicted and ordered by a local magistrate to pay a fine of $40. She refused to pay that fine. She was transferred to Silverwater Prison in New South Wales to serve a sentence, 1 think, of 20 days, corresponding to a $40 fine. 
I approached the then Attorney-General and pointed out to him that because of the ruling by a judge the girl's sentence was illegal, that in fact she should not have been gaoled, and that she should be released at least temporarily until the laws were amended or until such time as it was held to be legal to hold her in gaol. The Attorney-General said: 'Go and take us to court'. People did in fact seek an injunction that afternoon and the Commonwealth Government intervened before  Mr Justice  Meares, who I think behaved terribly on that day. He delayed a decision on that case on the request of the Commonwealth Government. Miss Russell was held in gaol for 24 hours until the previous Government was able to pass legislation validating the original decision. I think it was a wrong decision and it showed quite clearly that there are justices of the courts in New South Wales who do not take seriously the proposition that people should not be held unlawfully in gaol. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
How has the total of doctors' incomes moved in recent years, and what has been the movement in the average doctor's income over that period. 
Have doctors' incomes increased faster or slower than (a) average weekly earnings, (b) the cost of living index and (c) the Commonwealth minimum wage. 
What is the average income for each branch of the medical profession, and which branches of the profession have experienced the highest rates of increase in income. 
What effect has the most common fee schedule had on the relative rewards of different branches of the medical profession. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
According to the latest available census figures, what proportion of Australia's population lives in urban centres with  a  population of more than (a) 500,000, (b) 75,000, (c) 50,000, (d) 20,000 and (e) 10,000. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the history of D-Notices. 
Is there any legal basis for D-Notices; if so, what is the basis. 
Do publications such as On Target, published by the League of Rights, and The Vanguard, published by the Communist Party of Australia (MarxistLeninist), receive D-Notices. 
Will the Government abolish D-Notices. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that until now patients or prospective patients of public hospitals in all States of the Commonwealth except Queensland have not had freedom of choice of entry as public patients if their income exceeded a relatively low means test? Are there any changes in that system under the proposed scheme? Is it a fact that until now pensioner patients have not had the freedom of attending the specialist of their choice but were forced to attend specialists as outpatients of public hospitals? Are any changes proposed under the scheme as outlined in the report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee? 
I rise to discuss, not the machinery amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  but the question of the kind of people who ought to be appointed to the Cities Commission which is provided for under this clause. To some extent my remarks will also relate to the Cities Commission Advisory Committee which is dealt with in clause 11 of the amending Bill. I would like to preface my remarks, as I did not speak in the second reading debate on this Bill, by saying that if the work of the Cities Commission is successful - and I feel confident that this will be so - it will have a great and favourable impact on a great number of people living in this country. I think it is the most important aspect of the. whole of the Australian Labor Party program. It is true that we have worked very hard as the Minister said - he himself during the last 3 years and the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for even longer than that - to get the message across that we have to do something about the quality of life of the people in the cities. I do not know the names of the people who will be appointed to constitute this Commission and the Advisory Committee but one of my worries is that they will not have the same priorities as I have. 
I think it is important to realise that the sort of person who is usually appointed to commissions and advisory committees, because of his training and because he is able to express himself better than the average citizen living in the area concerned, is not really representative of the citizens in the area even if he lives there himself, and in the majority of cases he does not even live in the area. He is usually a person who can be described as a middle class intellectual and his ideas as to culture and quality of life are not necessarily those of the people who live in the area concerned. We have been urging the , .oint of view that what we want to do is to improve the quality of life of the people in the cities of Australia. Everybody has a different view on the quality of life. To me it just means that people should have as many choices as possible. Inasmuch as those choices are limited, either by a lack of facilities in the areas or by a lack of finance on the part of the individuals concerned, we have to do something about the. matter. 
When dealing, for example, with the question of cultural attitudes or the sneering on the part of the kind of person I mentioned earlier, no absolute belief should be permitted, for instance, that a British Broadcasting Corporation series such as 'The Six Wives of Henry VITI' or 'Elizabeth R' should be forced on to the people, instead of 'No. 96'. I think it is important to remember that people may consider 'No. 96' more relevant to their lives and therefore more interesting. It always amuses me how some of the self-styled radical academics talk big about 'relevant' education. To them, that means such things as discussions on womens lib, racial theory or the revolutionary aspirations of the third world. I have no objection to their being discussed but these people do not see any inconsistency between this and their attitude when discussing culture for the majority of people. They want to limit to fairly old fashioned and narrow limits and they absolutely gush when they can find someone who is prepared to use a spinning wheel or some such old fashioned item of what they consider to be culture. I think it is important that we must not allow these self styled experts to force on the rest of society their beliefs in regard to aesthetics - that, for example, the Sydney Mint is necessarily more beautiful than the State Government office block; that sandstone blocks are more beautiful than concrete; that wood is preferable to glass or plastic or other synthetic materials; or that Paddington terraces are necessarily more beautiful than high rise, rental accommodation. 
I notice that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who is a member of the Liberal Party executive, is now at the table. I think that he made a speech yesterday in which he criticised high rise rental accommodation. I do not necessarily disagree with the propositions which I have ascribed to the people I am criticising, but I just do not believe that there is any way of making absolute decisions on those points. It is up to the people to make their own decisions as to whether they prefer one form of aesthetics to another - whether they prefer the appearance of a sandstone building or a concrete building, or whether they prefer high rise accommodation with its advantages and disadvantages to the sort of accommodation that the honourable member for Hotham feels every right minded Australian should be living in. I hope that I am quoting the honourable member correctly. I think that in the 3 years leading up to the last election we made specific promises to improve facilities in the developing suburbs. I think that what we were referring to, and what people certainly understood us to be referring to, was the need to spend large sums of money on transport, sewerage, drainage, health services, education facilities and so on. We had in mind that this money was not available locally, that the sort of people who live in these areas cannot afford the huge rates that might be necessary to improve some of these services and that it must be Commonwealth money that is spent here. I feel, of course, quite confident that this will happen. 
I just want to emphasise that those of us who represent these areas would like the Minister for Urban and Regional Develop ment, who is now at the table, to make it clear to those appointed to the Commission and to the Advisory Committee that whilst they may have personal preferences for pre- 1850 houses or cast iron balconies or the preservation of bedrooms that were slept in by Governor Macquarie, that is not their functon; their main function is to deal with what the Minister referred to when he concluded his second reading speech. I will repeat the 3 points that he made because I think it is important to emphasise them to the people who are to be appointed to the Advisory Committee and to the Commission. The Minister said that their function will be to bring about changes in our cities, to make them more efficient and to equalise the opportunities for urban living. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 10  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 11. 
Section 14 of the Principal Actis amended by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following sub-section: 
There shall be a Cities Commission Advisory Committee to advise the Commission in connection with its duties and powers under this Act.'. 
 In congratulating the Minister for accepting the amendment to increase from 1 to 3 the number of vacant positions on the Cities Commission Advisory Committee, as I understand it from the way he is speaking, I draw his attention again to what I said in relation to a previous clause. Not only should environmentalists who live in Double Bay but also people who have some understanding of what is going on in, say, the outer western suburbs of Sydney and of the needs in that area should be on this Advisory Committee. In opposition to the proposition that was implied by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  I would argue that on this Commission there should be a significant number of people who do not have as one of their background qualifications membership of the National Trust of Australia or some conservation society or environmental group. Let us have on the Commission more people who do not belong to any of these in groups at the present time but who will give a different point of view. If that was done, if nothing else, at least we would have a balance of opinion between those  people  on the Advisory Committee or the Commission who belong to the National Trust and environmental groups, who have very definite points of view, and people with different points of view and different priorities. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That  the question be now put. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 12 and 13  -  by leave - taken together. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
According to the latest available census figures, what proportion of Australia's population lives in urban centres with a population of more than (a) 500,000, (b) 75,000, (c) 50,000, (d) 20,000, and (e) 10,000. 
I rise to speak for only a few minutes. I did not realise that this piece of legislation was to be taken through all its stages today. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government for bringing in this piece of legislation. I am one of those people who under the previous legislation would have been deportable from this country. I have certainly been one of those who has organised and moved appropriate resolutions either in the Australian Labor Party or in connection with the Council for Civil Liberties, emphasising that it was necessary to remove this legislation from the statute book. I thought it was a regrettable piece of legislation as long as it stood. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  pointed out that the previous Government had only 23 years to remove it from the books and he said that it had always wanted to do so. 
Until then, apparently the previous Government wanted to threaten people with deportation, as it had previously done when it threatened trade union leaders with deportation because they were involved in what the Government liked to call 'illegal strikes' which meant, of course, every strike in this country. 
The same kind of political parties were in government. The previous Government realised only in 1971 that there were a significant number of people in the population who objected to being treated as second class citizens. Suddenly the previous Government woke up and at least promised the people to do something about it but, in fact, it did nothing about it in all the time it was in office. It did not take this Government very long to carry out what in fact has been Labor Party policy for quite a number of years. As soon as we had the opportunity to do so we brought in this piece of legislation. I agree with the honourable member for Parramatta that many other amendments are required to the Crimes Act but many of them are what I would call 'political amendments'. They concern questions such as whether it should be possible to declare organisations illegal and whether it should be possible to prosecute people for taking part in what the Government of the day declares to be an illegal strike. 1 am one of those who believe that none of those things have a place in a democratic society. 
I reiterate that I should like to congratulate the Government as a whole and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  who is at present overseas for being so quick in carrying out the recommendations to eliminate any possibility that people would be deported from this country in addition to any other punishment that may be inflicted on them. I think it is important that the provisions of this piece of legislation, which apparently will be passed today and which will no doubt receive royal assent within the next few days, are made known to the migrant population because I agree with the previous  speaker  in this debate who said that there has been concern in the migrant population during the last few months arising out of so called Croat happenings. 
Personally I think that all the concern was misplaced. The House may recall that even before the Attorney-General made his statement in the Senate I took the opportunity to ask the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  to give an undertaking, firstly, that no naturalised Australian citizen would be deported, and secondly, that even nonnaturalised Australian citizens convicted of some crime would not be deported to any totalitarian country if they had some political reasons to fear a return to that country. The Minister for Immigration gave that undertaking. I think that it did not receive as much publicity in the migrant population as it should have received. This was a great pity. I can understand the fear of Croats or anybody else who has strong political differences with the government of the country from which they have come at the possibility of being deported back to that country. They know how they would be treated. They might well finish up in gaol for the rest of their lives and in some countries they might even be executed. 
We have had cases recently where police in Sydney have gone to houses for a variety of reasons. I do not know the nature of the warrants and I do not want to discuss that. As a result of those visits people have been charged with offences including resisting arrest. In one case against a person whose name I have forgotten - he is either a Yugoslav or a Croat - evidence was given not only by the man but also by the police that he was worried that he would be sent back to Yugoslavia. He got himself involved in a minor scuffle with a policeman and as a result of that scuffle it was alleged that he bit the policeman's finger. He was acquitted of the main charge which I think was one of having explosives in his possession but he was sentenced to 3 months gaol for assaulting police. I will not canvass that case any further because I have contacted the solicitor concerned and he has told me that there is an appeal pending on the severity of the sentence. But I think that does illustrate that there were people in the community who panicked and if they were not aware of what our policy was the panic probably was justifiable because of the possibility of being sent back to Yugoslavia or to some other totalitarian country. 
I therefore commend the Government on bringing in this repealing legislation. I should like to ask the Government to try to publicise in the migrant community the effect of this Bill so that the migrants - certainly naturalised migrants - can be quite sure that they will not be deported from Australia and that they will not be sent back to any country which they fear. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Has the Minister for 
Social Security seen a statement alleged to have been made by the Canadian Deputy Minister for Health and Welfare and used by the Australian Medical Association, the General Practitioners Society and professional letter writers employed by Messrs Turner and Cade of the hospitals contribution fund and medical benefits funds who quoted the Canadian Deputy Minister as saying: 
We have come to the inescapable conclusion that we have the wrong system. 
Has the Minister for Social Security had any checks made on that statement and can he tell us whether in fact that quotation referred to the whole of the Canadian health system? 
I rise tonight to discuss an issue which worries me slightly. Honourable members who were in this Parliament during 1971 and those who were not then members may recall that  Sir Frank  Packer, who was then not only a newspaper owner but also the owner of a number of television stations, took it upon himself to remove from office the then Prime Minister and Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia,  Mr John  Gorton. He had extreme power then in the Liberal Party. Although  Sir Frank  Packer has now sold the daily and Sunday newspapers that he published in Sydney - the Daily Telegraph' and 'Sunday Telegraph' - he still exerts a considerable amount of influence through his television stations and magazines. 
I notice that  Sir Frank  Packer's hatchet man,  Mr David  McNicoll, has a full page article in one of  Sir Frank  Packer's publications, the 'Bulletin' of 26 May 1973, which has just gone on sale. He tells us that the Liberal Party in New South Wales will remove a number of its present members in this House. Knowing  Mr David  McNicoll and  Sir Frank  Packer, it is interesting to note the names of the people at whom  Mr McNicoll  has pointed his finger. These are the people whom his hatchet man says will be removed from this House - no matter what our views may be of them as members of this Parliament. I should like to read a part of the article that  Mr McNicoll  has written. He states: 
There's a great deal of movement behind the scenes in Liberal circles. The big wheels are in action, and there will certainly be some major changes before the next election. 
The emphasis will be on putting top quality men into blue ribbon seats, some of which are currently occupied by members who are too old, or too ineffective. 
I think many of us probably would agree with that. He continues: 
The moves will be aimed at upsetting past methods of pre-selection, whereby party adherents and little old ladies belonging to Liberal branches could swing a_ candidate into the No. 1 position - no matter what his lack of qualifications might be. In future, only top quality men will get the selection. 
In other words, they will be people of whom  Sir Frank  Packer approves. I have no doubt that is his definition of 'top quality men'.; David McNicoll continues: 
Destined for the chop:  Sir John  Cramer (Bennelong), aged in the wood, and due for the sweet pastures of retirement; Leslie Bury (Wentworth), a first class parliamentarian in his day, and a nice chap, but over the hill politically; H. B. Turner (Bradfield), one of the most effective back-benchers in the House, but thinking of retirement which he should do as soon as possible; Bruce Graham (North Sydney), decent and hardworking, but not sufficiently hot quality to occupy a blue ribbon seat. And there is much talk that Bill Wentworth (Mackellar) is thinking of turning politics in - this would mean another blue ribbon seat becoming available. 
I do not know who  Sir Frank  Packer's picks are for those seats. I know that for the seat of Bennelong he has lined up Peter Coleman who at present is the M.L.A. for a State seat which undoubtedly he will lose in the forthcoming State elections unless the redistribution adds half of  Mr McCaw's  seat of Lane Cove to the present seat of Fuller. 
Even with the changes between the 1970 election and the last election in Victoria, Fuller would go. David McNicoll continues: 
One difficulty in getting the top men required is, that they would, in some cases, have to make  a  financial sacrifice to go into politics. There is serious discussion about ways in which parliamentary salary, could be supplemented by the party in such cases. 
This is an interesting point that David McNicoll makes on behalf of  Sir Frank  Packer.  Sir Frank  Packer is obviously putting up the proposition that he is prepared to kick in some money to persuade people to enter Parliament. I take it that it will be some of. the $15m, if I remember correctly, that he received from the sale of his 'Daily Telegraph' and 'Sunday Telegraph' newspapers. He is there making an offer to the Liberal Party: If the Liberal Party will get rid of the people mentioned by David McNicoll, there will be money available - and money is available, of course, to  Sir Frank  Packer in large quantities. It will be given to those people, and no doubt it will be given to other people who co-operate with  Sir Frank  Packer in getting rid of those people. 
I think that it behoves all of us, as people who are interested in parliamentary government, to watch what will happen in those areas, especially in the case of those members who are not keen to retire. What kind of offers will be made either to the new members who would replace the existing members in those seats or to the existing members to retire gracefully? I think that it is important for the parliamentary process to make quite sure that there is no interference in the method of preselection by people who have huge amounts of money at their disposal with which to buy and sell parliamentary seats - blue ribbon seats, as David McNicoll calls them. We have seen what is happening in the United States at the present time. 
-I am referring not only to the Watergate case but also to the related sorts of scandals where people have offered large amounts of money to politicians, especially Republican politicians, in order to exert undue influence on the government. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
Do any (a) State or (b) independent high schools have a compulsory cadet corps. 
If so, (a) what are the names of these schools in each State and (b) is this consistent with the Government's policy of opposition to conscription. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon, notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the French Revised Code of Military Discipline. 
If so, does it contain a soldier's obligation to refuse an order which is illegal under French law or the Geneva Convention. 
Will he ensure that our Code contains a similar provision. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
How much Australian Government advertising in (a) column inches and (b) value was placed in each foreign language newspaper during (i) 1971 and (H) 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What was the original justification for paying age pensions to women at 60 and men at 65. 
Is this distinction still justifiable. 
asked the Treasurer,- upon notice: 
Is the age allowance for taxation purposes intended as compensation for those not eligible for an age pension. 
Is there any other justification for this allowance. 
Will the allowance be removed when the means test is abolished. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the maximum allowable weekly income, including the pension, of a married age pensioner couple before fringe benefits are withdrawn. 
What is the maximum allowable weekly income of the same couple before the pension is not payable. 
What was the proportion of Australian wage earners who earned less than the amount indicated in answer to (a) part (1) and (b) part (2) during 1971-72. 
How does taxation affect (a) an age pensioner couple without dependants and (b)  a  wage earner with  a  dependent wife and 2 dependent children earning the amount indicated in answer to (i) part (1) and (ii) part (2). 
MrHayden - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A married couple cease to be eligible for fringe benefits when their combined non-pension income, assuming they have no affecting property, reaches $54.50  a  week. With  an  income of$54.50  a  week, a married couple would, at existing rates, each receive  a  pension of 313.75  a  week giving then  a  combined  income of$82 a week. 
Pension ceases to be payable to an age pensioner couple when their combined income, assuming they have no affecting property, reaches $109.50 a week. 
The Treasurer has supplied information relating to wage and salary earners who were taxable for the 1971-72 income year, the latest year for which statistics are available. At 30 June 1972 the income limit at which the pension eligibility ceased in the case of a married couple was $81 a week and that at which a couple ceased to qualify for fringe benefits was $49. With income of $49 a week a couple would have each received a pension of $8 a week giving them a combined income of $65 a week. The information from the Treasurer indicates that of those taxpayers with net incomes below $15,000 per annum whose income was solely from salaries and wages (or salaries and wages together with net property income of less than $400) and whose assessments were dealt with under the computer-assisted assessing process, about 47 per cent had annual incomes equivalent to less than $65 a week, while 63 per cent had annual incomes equivalent to less than $81 a week. 
At income levels equal to the amounts mentioner in 1 and  1  above the following table compares the tax which would be payable at existing rates by an age pensioner couple (assuming that all the income is received by the husband) with that which would be payable by a wage earner with a wife and two dependent children. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Health by congratulating the Government on its decision to provide $4m in this financial year towards the cost of planning the Westmead Hospital, which is to be built on the Parramatta Showground. As the Minister is no doubt aware, the New South Wales Liberal Minister for Health,  Mr Jago,  originally promised that Westmead Hospital would be functioning by 1972, and in fact of course nothing has happened. Can the Minis ter say whether there are any indications that following our Government's generous grant the New South Wales Government will really start building this urgently needed and long overdue hospital? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is there any method of comparing taxation in Australia, Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States of America at different income levels, taking into account both direct and indirect taxation at all levels of government. 
If so, will he provide such a comparison. 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen a report of a statement by  Mr Justin  Fleming, the  President  of the Australian Association of Surgeons, in which he associated himself or expressed agreement of his association with the Liberal Party spokesman on health and social welfare, the honourable member for Hotham, who had accused doctors' organisations of deplorable taste in their attacks on the Federal Government's proposed national health scheme? I assume that he referred particularly to the poster depicting the Minister as an SS man and the Prime Minister as Hitler. Secondly, has the Minister seen in the same report a statement that  Mr Justin  Fleming, following the Minister's announcement last week of a relatively minor change in the health insurance proposals, has expressed his support for what he called  Mr Hayden's  scheme? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice: 
How many civilians were employed by each of the Services as at 30 June 1973? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the loss to the Commonwealth in tax receipts due to the age allowance during the latest year for which figures are available. 
asked the following question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Which (a) Senators and (b) Members of the House of Representatives received payments under any Commonwealth rural subsidy scheme during each of the last 5 years. 
What was the amount received in each case. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is he able to furnish details of the amounts written off as bad debts by public hospitals in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What changes in the beneficial ownership of the shares in: 
television companies and 
radio stations were 
approved and 
not approved since 1 January 1972. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What proportion of doctors' incomes was derived from 
Commonwealth and medical fund benefits; 
pensioner medical service payments; and 
Repatriation payments during each of the last 5 years. 
How much of the remainder was estimated to derive from insurance companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed (a) full-time and (b) part-time by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation as at 30 June 1973. 
Is this an increase or decrease on the position twelve months previously. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What scales of imprisonment are laid down to cover cases were default is made in paying fines or court costs in (a) New South Wales, (b) the Australian Capital Territory and (c) the Northern Territory. 
Can he say why there are any differences in the scales. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recommendation from the Anglican Synodin Melbourne that an expert committee of inquiry be set up to investigate the correlation, if any, between erotic material and adverse behaviour. 
If so, will the Minister give effect to this recommendation. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) Army (b) Navy and (c) Air Force vehicles were involved in accidents in each of the years 1970, 1971, and 1972. 
How many (a) civilians and (b) Service personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
How many vehicles driven by (a) Army (b) Navy and (c) Air Force personnel but not owned by the Defence Forces were involved in accidents in each of the years 1970, 1971 and 1972. 
How many (a) civilians and (b) Defence Force personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Is an estimate available of the proportion of the total energy consumption in Australia which is used by private vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Can he say what sum was spent on each (a) television channel and (b) radio station in each of the States by each of the political parties which contested the 1972 General Elections for the House of Representatives. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons were in the employment of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation as at 30 June in each of the years I960, 1965, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973. 
With reference to Division 450 on page 91 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74, where do the salaries and payments in the nature of salary of the employees of the Organisation appear in the Budget papers. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What proportion of Australia's energy requirements is met by (a) petrol, (b) natural gas, (c) diesel oil, (d) coal, (e) hydro-electric power and (f) other sources. 
What are the other sources in cases where they exceed one per cent of total energy requirements. 
How have these percentages varied during the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the statement by  Mr Robert  Mayne, assistant editor of 'The Sun-Herald', (a) that he was approached by  Mr Peter  Coleman, M.L.A. and a senior officer of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization to work for a magazine called 'Analysis' and (b) that the Organization would supply material to discredit members of the Australian Labor Party. 
If so, (a) who was this senior officer of the Organization and (b) is he still in the employment of the Organization. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. Has he seen a Press handout from the executive director of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Association,  Dr Wylie  Gibbs, who has predicted a severe shortage of drugs in Australia? In the same Press handout he blames the oil crisis and the increase in oil prices for that potential shortage. Will the Minister assure the House that the increase in the price of oil will not be used as an excuse by pharmaceutical manufacturers to increase the price of drugs to even higher levels, remembering that the cost of the oil used in the synthetic preparation of drugs must be less than 1 per cent of the total cost of the finally dispensed drugs? 
-I would like to take just a few minutes to raise 2 matters. On 5 October 1973 in the 'Australian' there appeared an advertisement in the form of an open letter. It was headed: Open Letter To: John Gorton Esq., Former Prime Minister of Australia'. It said: 
No, this was Summers. He was on the list to get a knighthood from the previous Government but with the change in government he did not receive his knighthood. 
During the second part of last year, as honourable members may recall, I was in New York attending the United Nations as one of the parliamentary observers. The State elections in New South Wales were held during that time. I applied for a vote in the State elections, as did my wife. We applied on the very first day h was possible to apply. However, we received our ballot papers one day too late. In addition, the ballot papers we received were for an electorate in which we were not enrolled and enclosed with the ballot papers were envelopes designed to contain ballot papers for the State electorate of Parramatta to be returned to the New South Wales State Returning Officer for the State electoral district of Phillip, Grosvenor Street. Sydney. So they made quite sure that we would not be able to vote in the State elections. Firstly, they sent the papers too late; secondly, they sent us ballot papers for an electorate in which we were not entitled to vote and, thirdly, they sent envelopes directing that the ballot papers be returned to an electorate which had no connection either with the electorate in which we were enrolled or the electorate for which we received ballot papers. 
I complained about this matter and I received a reply last week which stated that the electoral office in New South Wales at the time of the elections was not aware of the rolls for the new re-distribution which was carried out by the Premier of New South Wale's, as honourable members may recall, just before the last State elections to make sure that he would be returned again. This is quite fantastic inefficiency on the part of the electoral office of New South Wales. It is no wonder that there is now a case before the Court of Disputed Returns on the question of Coogee where a Labor candidate was allegdly defeated by 8 votes. If the postal vote applications in other electoral districts were dealt with in the same fashion as my own postal vote application it is not surprising. 
No, I have not been fined for not voting but I expect to get a letter from the Electoral Office in due course. I have raised these 2 points on the adjournment debate. I will not speak any longer because I know that there are Ministers trying to reply to some matters which have been raised. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. In view of intermittent threats of and previous experiences with so-called regulation strikes in his Department - and probably in other government departments - for example, in the case of postmen, I put it to him that if a regulation strike can cause havoc does that not suggest that the regulations should be changed? Will he have a look at the regulations so that effective work can be performed strictly according to regulations? 
I rise tonight to discuss a question which impressed itself significantly on me while I was overseas attending the United Nations Organisation as one of the parliamentary advisers at the last meeting of the General Assembly. I refer to the great lack of both political and civil freedom all over the world. Most of what I wish to say tonight comes from a publication called 'Freedom at Issue' which is published by Freedom House in New York. This organisation has studied 151 countries and 45 dependant territories and has found that of the total population of the world of 3.3 billion, 2.3 billion or two-thirds of the world's population suffers severe political and civil deprivation and that only 32 per cent of the world's population living in 30 per cent of the nations are considered to be free. 
During the course of my remarks I shall give honourable members some details justifying this statement and explaining how a decision was made as to what was the status of freedom and what the political and civil rights were like in a particular country. We often talk about other countries and make assumptions about them as to whether they are or are not democracies without really knowing very much about them. Certainly, this is true in many cases. Freedom House is a non-party political organisation. It is political only in the sense that the people belonging to it are committed to democracy and opposed to any decline in democracy wherever it may occur. I have asked the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  for permission to include in Hansard a table titled 'The Comparative Survey of Freedom: Table of Nations' and I now ask for leave of the House to incorporate this table. 

<graphic href="088131197404025_91_8.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="088131197404025_92_9.jpg"></graphic>

In incorporating this table, I should like to draw the attention of the House to certain points contained in the table. Of all the countries named - I think there are 151 countries - only 17 countries have what are called perfect scores. Each country receives a score for political rights and a score for civil rights. One is a perfect score and seven represents a complete absence of civil and political rights. I shall read to honourable members the countries which, according to the authors of this table, have complete political and civil rights. They are: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, West Germany, Iceland, Malta, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
I think it is important to point out to people who may criticise this organisation as being a right wing  organisaton,  because it certainly puts many of the countries under communist control very low in the scores, that this table which I have just incorporated in Hansard was drawn up in August 1973 at a time when Chile was still controlled by the Allende Government, yet Chile received an almost perfect score in relation to freedom. It received a perfect score of one for political rights and a score of two for civil rights. In other words, the score for Chile at that time was exactly the same, for example, as the score for France. I point this out to explain to honourable members that those people deciding on the method of scoring were not prejudiced by left and right inclinations. The organisation makes the following points: 
A democracy requires civil and political rights. Civil rights are the rights of the individual against the state, rights to free expression, to a fair trial; they are what most of us mean by freedom. Political rights are legal rights to play a part in determining who governs or what the laws of the community are. Of course, to a degree the two kinds of rights are interdependent: civil rights without political rights are apt to be lost and political rights without civil rights are meaningless. 
I shall quote from an explanation of the way the organisation conducted its surveys. The publication states: - 
Four types of judgments are included in the Survey. For each nation or dependency in the world, these are: (1) comparison of civil liberties, (2) comparison of political liberties, X3) the balancing of these to establish the relative status of freedom, and (4) establishing current trends in freedom - 
In other words, whether there has been no recent change or whether a change is positive or negative as it relates to freedom. The organisation's account of its methods of deciding political rights is as follows: 
When a country's standing in political rights is analysed, attention is first directed to general elections. We want to know how recently there has been an election, and whether there was any competition. We want to know if there is a one-party, no party, or more than one-party system. A one-party system allows the least chance of opposition, while more than one party allows the most. In an election we want to know the percentage voting for a particular party or candidate for head of state. If contested, a vote with over 90 per cent for one side is probably meaningless, while majorities over 70 per cent seem suspicious. We also want to know how often the same results occur, and whether parties or leaders have replaced one another by democratic process. We are interested in whether there is regional or local elected government. Unless the country is very small, the more secondary elections there are, and the more power the winners gain by election, the more democratic we assume the society. In all elections we want to know what percentage of the people participate, and how exclusions are created. 
To be ranked (1) in political rights it has to be assumed that the great majority of persons or families in the state have both rights and opportunities to participate in the electoral process. In addition, the right to compete for office has to be fairly general, and political parties can be freely formed for this purpose. The United Kingdom or the Netherlands are good examples. 
Finally, of course, on the bottom of the scale one would find what are considered to be essentially tyrannies without any legitimacy either in traditional or in international doctrine. The publication goes on to discuss civil rights. It states: 
Turning to civil rights, we are interested first of all in freedom of the Press. Is the Press critical? Does it support persons who might replace those now in power? Alternative systems? Is it independently controlled? Or privately owned? Beyond the Press, we want to know how much government control there is over television and radio. Unfortunately, even in countries where the Press is relatively independent and untrammelled, the often more popular radio and television systems are frequently under government control. Although this control may -be carefully hedged about with legal restrictions, only in a few states with long and continuous democratic conditions of democratic abstinence, such as Great Britain, are we reassured by legal guarantees of impartiality. Beyond the media, we look for other evidence of impartiality, particularly for a free judiciary. It also seems reasonable to consider freedom from harsh and unusual punishments and torture. Another evidence of civil liberties is offered by a defined and restricted sphere of government attention. 
With a high level of civil rights, rights are safe for nearly everyone and nearly everywhere against violence or arbitrary action by police or mobs. 1 think that to be ranked one in civil rights means that the rule of law is unshaken. It also means that there is a variety of news media and freedom of expression is both possible and evident. Examples given in this report are Denmark and Australia. On the other hand, when we get down to the bottom end of the civil rights scale the publication states: 
In states ranked (6) there are no generally accepted civil rights that are higher than the rights of the state. Nevertheless, criticism is often allowed to appear in limited ways, and a few favoured individuals are allowed considerable freedom. Examples are Greece and the USSR. In states ranked (7) the outside world almost never hears of criticism except through its condemnation. Citizens have no rights vis-a-vis the state. Examples are Albania and the Central African Republic. 
I think it is important to encourage those who are interested in freedom all over the world to have a look at the table which has been incorporated. It is a significant table. It is a depressing table in that so many countries all over the globe are ruled by regimes which prevent the majority of the population having any significant political or civil rights. It was quite depressing to me when I was attending the United Nations to find that so many of the resolutions coming forward criticising other countries for an alleged lack of democracy and of political freedoms were often sponsored by countries which almost never exceeded the six or seven ranking, which represents the bottom of the possibilities for both political and civil rights, and that countries where the people obviously have no political or civil rights were continuously ranting about alleged interference with freedom in other countries that admittedly also had relatively poor rankings but which certainly were no worse off than the people who were criticising them. 
Tonight we have only very few minutes to discuss this legislation. I realise that most other members of this House have had much more opportunity to speak on this Bill than I have had because I was away when it was last discussed. I should like to take up two or three furphies that have been raised repeatedly in connection with this Bill. The first one is the question of the patient's right to choose his own doctor. Let us be quite clear about this. There will be no interference whatever under our proposed legislation with the present right of the patient to choose his own doctor. In fact, as I hope to show, there will be an increase in his right to choose. At present, many doctors who have been opposing this legislation pretend that under the present scheme the patient has an absolute right to choose his own doctor. Of course, this is not true if we are talking about repatriation patients in hospitals, public patients in hospitals and patients in psychiatric hospitals. If we realise that one-third of all beds in Australian hospitals are contained in psychiatric hospitals and if we further realise that none of these patients has ever had a choice of doctor we also realise that when doctors complain about a lack of choice under our proposed legislation they are just ignoring what is happening at present. If a person is admitted as a public patient into a public hospital in Sydney he has no right to choose his own doctor. If he is admitted into a repatriation hospital he has no right to choose his own doctor. If he is admitted into a psychiatric hospital he has no right to choose his own doctor. 
I agree that this legislation does not represent the perfect method but what I am saying is that there will be no significant change in that area of health care. The only change will be in the area of health care offered .to pensioners. At present pensioners receiving treatment have a limited choice of a general practitioner. The choice is limited because some of the general practitioners who now talk big about the patient having the right to choose refuse to see pensioner patients and in this respect they do not give those particular patients the choice of seeing them. But under the scheme of the previous Government even this limited choice did not apply to specialists and pensioners had and still have no other choice but to line up at hospital outpatient centres and to be admitted into hospitals as public patients in order to receive their treatment, whether it be for yearly overhauls by a physician, for specialist treatment by an ophthalmologist or whatever the speciality may be that is relevant to the particular case. 
Under our proposal, as honourable members opposite well know, pensioners will be treated in exactly the same way as all other patients. If a pensioner wants to go and see his specialist, or if he wants to pick out a specialist to see privately, he will be perfectly entitled to do so. He may see his specialist privately and the Government will pick up the tab. The Government will pay for it in the same way as the Government now pays for the pensioner's visit to a general practitioner. In that way, of course, there will be a huge increase in the patient's right of choice. A large proportion of our population - some 800,000 people who are part of the pensioner medical service as well as repatriation patients - will now have the choice of going to see their specialists. A patient will be able to see his specialist privately in his own rooms or even have the specialist call to his own home, if relevant, and under our proposal all this treatment will be provided for nothing. So honourable members can see quite clearly that in fact the patient will improve his choice. He will have a greater right to choose. 
The main opposition to our scheme has come from the large funds. Such organisations as the Medical Benefits Fund of New South Wales have put in the money to prevent this legislation from going on to the statute books. They have paid for the propaganda against it. They pretend to be representing their contributors. During last week a manager of one of the funds wrote a letter to a lot of newspapers in New South Wales claiming that the contributors to the particular fund were represented. He said that all the directors were contributors  but  what he did  not say was that  those directors were not chosen  by the contributors,  in exactly the same  way  as happens with the Medical Benefits Fund  of New  South Wales.  In  the case  of  the Medical Benefits Fund there are 2 classes of contributor. Firstly, there are the ordinary contributors comprising about one million people plus their dependants; secondly, there are those called medical contributors. They are medical practitioners who are called medical contributors. They are chosen  by  the present board or council and they are the only people who have a vote in the election of the officers. 
I will not deal with the contents of the swan song made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I will speak for only a few minutes so as to give the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  an opportunity to reply to the honourable member, though 1 am pleased that apparently the representations that have been made by  Mr Jack  Egerton and the honourable member for Lilley have resulted in some benefits for the people of Brisbane. In passing I would like to refer to the speech made earlier by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who gave us. one of the typical attempts at standover tactics for which he is so well known. The honourable member tried to spill some crododile tears about  Mr Holt,  the late Prime Minister. As a man who is undoubtedly best known for his great loyalty to  Mr Gorton,  it was interesting to hear this from the honourable member for Wannon. But no doubt he has his own troubles. I note from a statement made by the Leader of the Country Party in Victoria that the Country Party in that Senate expects to win the seat of Wannon, and good luck to it. I do not usually support the Country Party but if there is one Country Party member who deserves to get into this House it will be the new member" for Wannon, whoever he may be. 
No, I do not like the honourable member for Wannon. I think that he typifies the sort of storm trooper mentality of which I disapprove. 
He is extremely arrogant. But he is not only arrogant with us. The honourable member for Wannon came to my electorate last Friday. He brought with him his own audience, which is important, and then gave a handout to the Press and to the media in which he described himself as the Liberal Party spokesman on defence and foreign policy, which no doubt be would like to be. But of course the Party does not trust him as its spokesman on foreign affairs and defence because of his quite extremist views; so they shut him up. But that does not stop him from giving these sorts of handouts to the Press. 
One of the main issues which has been discussed in political circles at the present time is the Senate's possible decision to refuse Supply or to reject some money Bills. I would like to quote one gentleman who is always revered and whose word is represented as holy writ by members of the Liberal Party and I think even by members of the Australian Country Party. I refer to one  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies who in 1968 wrote an article in the 'Daily Telegraph' then owned by another great master of the Liberal Party,  Sir Frank  Packer. The article was headed: 
Senate command of government by a party in a minority in the House of Representatives would be absurd, says  Sir Robert  Menzies. 
In the article  Sir Robert  Menzies discussed the type of Constitution we have and the necessary implications of it. He said: 
Under the system Ministers sit in and are responsible to Parliament; the Cabinet may be displaced by a vote of the House of Representatives (not - 
The 'not' is italicised - the Senate) and therefore holds office at the will of the House of Representatives. 
This is what was written by  Sir Robert  Menzies when he was able to write his own speeches, I take it, or his own articles. He went on to say: 
This means that if a government with a clear majority in the House of Representatives presented its Budget to Parliament, and then brought into the House of Representatives financial measures to give effect to that Budget, and had them passed by the House and sent up to the Senate, a hostile Senate could legally reject them. 
He went on to say: 
This, of course, would create an impossible situation, and would make popular government unworkable. 
He then added: 
It would be a falsification of democracy if, on any matter of government policy approved by the House of Representatives. ... the Senate representing the States and not the people, could reverse the decision. 
This is Menzies. 
He was a saint.  Sir Robert  Menzies then went on to say: 
If these propositions are right - 
I am sure he 'has changed his mind now. 
Whoever writes his articles for him now would take a different line - as I am sure they are - then the practical limits of Senate authority become clear.  a Senate opposition whose party had just been completely defeated at a general election, would be in command of the government of the nation. 
This would be absurd, as a denial of popular democracy. 
I challenge members of the Opposition to show us in what way their present proposition in the Senate differs from the sort of proposition that was being attacked by their patron saint. 
I was going to deal with some of the brilliant contents of the Liberal Party's new platform which has just been released. I shall deal with one point only, because, as I have said, I want to give the honourable member for Lilley time in which to speak. I refer to item No. 12 which deals with the role of women. The platform states: 
The Liberal Party is firmly committed to the view that women are equal members of society. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Whilst the decrease in unemployment figures since the election of the Labor Government indicates an improvement in the economic welfare of the country, does the Minister have any figures indicating whether the reduction in the unemployment figures is the total measure of the buoyancy of the economy and the benefits that flow to those seeking work? 
Honourable members of the House might be surprised that I have risen to speak to this condolence motion. I never met  Senator McKenna  and I know little about his background. I heard him speak only once in the flesh, in 1951 when the Communist Party dissolution referendum was before the people of Australia. At the time I was either the  President  or the Secretary of a branch in New South Wales of the Australian Labor Party. The Party as a whole in New South Wales, I am afraid, was divided or at least not completely committed to opposition to this referendum. Some people in the ALP and in the trade unions, for good or not so good reasons, were strongly opposed to the Communist Party and its members and they did not feel like working strongly for the defeat of this referendum. We have to remember that this referendum, if carried, amongst other things would probably have removed some of the communists from the political and industrial scene. 

 Senator McKenna, as he then was, was known as a Catholic who was strongly anticommunist. He came to the Sydney Trades Hall to speak to a meeting of Australian Labor Party branch presidents and secretaries and union officials about the referendum. I attended that meeting. That was the only contact I had with him in any way. He made a calm, brilliant, rational and extremely well argued speech in which he showed that anybody believing in democracy had to oppose that referendum. In retrospect I am sure that that speech was probably the greatest single contribution leading to the defeat of that referendum in New South Wales and in Australia. I remember him for that one particular speech which galvanised the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party into action in opposing the referendum. I conclude with a word to the smokers in the audience: He was a smoker and he died of carcinoma of the lung. 
(Prospect)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
At the beginning of this debate the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  moved that the time for the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  be extended to 45 minutes to take up more of the time given to the Opposition. I interjected that the honourable member was the only one who knew anything about the health scheme and that is why the Opposition put him on for 45 minutes. I apologise to the rest of the Opposition. Having listened to the honourable member for Hotham, he does not seem to understand our health scheme and he does not seem to understand the present scheme. In speaking about the propositions which we are putting up I make it quite clear that I do not think our scheme is the solution to the reorganisation of health care delivery in this country. But I make it quite clear that the honourable member for Hotham got up for his speech and talked about the Opposition's scheme which would be terrific, which would change things, etc., and then he did not mention it again for the 45 minutes which he had. He did not mention any proposed change to the present scheme. So one can only assume that the Opposition proposes to retain the status quo. I suggest that that is fairly typical for the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Hotham earlier in his speech referred to the fact repeatedly - I think it probably makes him feel revolutionary - that the Opposition will go to the barricades to defend the medical profession. He certainly seemed to indicate that the Opposition felt very strongly. I find it difficult to understand why the Opposition feels strongly about the present scheme in contrast to our scheme because, as I shall mention in a few minutes, there is no great threat to private fee for service medicine in our scheme. The day before yesterday I was sent by the Australian Medical Association its annual report for 1973. Part of that annual report covers the Freedom Fund which was set up to defend private medical practice. The Freedom Fund financial statement for the period ended 31 December 1973  -  that is for one year - shows an expenditure of $431,211 to fight the Labor Government. Advertising amounted to $232,000. Political liaison amounted to something approaching $9,000 and political consultants' fees amounted to $57,853. 1 will leave it to the imagination of honourable members in this House as to who received the political consultants' fees and the political liaison fees. I am not suggesting that the honourable member for Hotham did. But I do suggest that members who were influential on the side of the Liberal Party, either inside the parliamentary party or more likely in the Senate, and in the departed Australian Democratic Labor Party, received a significant amount of those consultant's fees for advice on how best to defeat the Labor Party's health scheme. I think that is why there has been such unanimity and feeling about going to the barricades. 
Before getting on to the question of our proposals I draw the attention of the House to what is happening in Canberra at the present time. The honourable member for Hotham referred to what he considered to be a terrible situation in Canberra. I think it is a terrible situation. The Government is proposing to bring Canberra into the twentieth century to make it possible for people to enter a public ward; that is, to become public ward patients in one of Canberra's hospitals. Even the honourable member for Hotham did not suggest that there should be no public wards in hospitals. He suggested that admission to those public wards should be restricted on some basis - I assume the basis that presently applies in New South Wales - although that is not the basis in Queensland. At the present time in Canberra there are no public ward beds. They are all beds for which fee for service is charged. What the Government proposes after spending a lot of money on Canberra's hospitals is to make it possible for people to choose whether to go into a public ward, an intermediate ward or a private ward. But what did the doctors of Canberra decide on 2 July? The vast majority of those in private practice signed a declaration. The Australian Capital Territory Medical Association outlined a course of action it wants to take at the date of commencement of duty of the first full-time salaried specialist appointed in response to advertisements for the staffing of the proposed Canberra hospital service scheme. It said: 
Private practitioners will treat .only those hospital patients opting for private patient status. 
That is fair enough. The Association continued: Service will not be provided by private practitioners lo patients choosing 'free' hospital service. Salaried specialists will have to accept full responsibility at all times for their 'free' patients'. 
No assistance will be provided to salaried medical staff either in hospitals or health centres, in providing routine patient care, or in providing relief at nights, weekends or for annual leave. This means that no out-of-hours cover will be provided by private general practitioners to patients of salaried health centres. 
There will be no professional association between private practitioners and newly appointed salaried specialists. 
They have been declared 'black' and they will be sent to Coventry. The Association went on to say: 
Where a patient of a general practitioner requiring specialist care declines to be referred to a specialist in private practice for treatment on a fee-for-service basis, in or out of hospital, the general practitioner will advise the patient to attend the out-patient department of the hospital for entry into the free hospital  service scheme. This advice will be given verbally and no letter of referral or other documentation will be provided. 
They will not even tell the doctor at the hospital what is wrong with that patient or what previous treatment that patient has had. It said: 
Exception will be made in cases where referral is necessary to a staff specialist in a specialty not covered by any private practitioner. 
The attitude is that if a specialty is not a paying proposition send them to the salaried doctors and that is all right. The declaration went on to say: 
General practitioners will offer Pensioner Medical Service patients requiring specialist attention a choice of attending the out-patients departments for treatment by the salaried specialist staff or of being referred to a private practitioner on a fee-for-service basis. In such cases the fee may be waived by the private practitioner at his discretion. 
That is what doctors have been after all the time. They can dispense charity. They can say to the patient: 'We will let you off your moiety'. I notice that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  is smiling at this. I think he is smiling in agreement because he was , once the Minister for Health in the McMahon Government or the Gorton Government. He certainly had enough contact with the medical practitioners to realise that what I am saying is correct. 
This declaration is very long, so I will shorten it. 'Except in most exceptional circumstances doctors will not treat an emergency case unless the patient or his relatives opt for private care on a fee-for-service basis'. If a patient is extremely ill the doctor will say to him or to his relatives: 'Unless you sign a form to become a private patient on a fee-for-service basis I will not treat you'. I find it difficult to believe that the vast majority of doctors in private practice in Canberra were prepared to sign this declaration, no matter how scared they are of oppositions from salaried medical practitioners. 
I understand that they did. 
No. I understand a large majority of the people attended and they agreed to it. Anyway, that was the proposition. This is a statement from the local medical association. I think it is a deplorable statement. 
The honourable member for Hotham in his discussion of Labor's proposition, "made 2 major points in criticising our scheme. The first referred to over utilisation and the second referred  to  the fact that if too many people wanted to have standard ward or public ward treatment in hospitals there would be a long waiting time. To some extent the 2 points overlap. Let us look at the case in the United States of America where comparable figures have been published. In that country there are 2 types of schemes  Tunning  side by side - feeforservice schemes and other schemes. People can opt for the fee-for-service scheme or they  can  opt for what are called health maintenance organisations such as the Kaiser-Permanente scheme and others in New York. We have to remember that the people opting for feeforservice treatment are the ones who are over utilising the scheme. They are not over utilising the scheme because they want their appendix or gall bladder removed but because their doctor has their appendix or gall bladder removed. If we compare the figures for nonmaternity surgical procedures in the United States we find the following: Group practice plans - which are ' non  fee-for-service  plans - have the lowest rate and the Blue Shield, which is the same as our present schemes  such  as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and others, has the highest rate with all surgical procedures running at 135 per cent higher under fee-for-service. That is not just 35 per cent higher, but 135  per  cent higher. Tonsillectomies and adenoidectomies were 200 per cent higher; appendectomies were 50 per cent higher; cholecystectomies were 90 per cent higher; and female surgery was 77  per  cent higher than in group practice. Female surgery included mastectomy, dilatation and curettage and hysterectomy. This contrasting experience was consistent over a 6-year period. Over a 6-year period these propositions were followed up and all these extras were found. 
An article relating to the Kaiser scheme shows that  in  view of the facts that the group practice surgeons - that is, the non feeforservice surgeons - are fully trained and, like all surgeons, interested  in  the surgical treatment  of  organic disease, but are not paid by the operation, a knowledgeable observer has difficulty avoiding the interpretation that a  fee-for-service  is a powerful,  if  subliminal, influence  in  the decision  to  operate and therefore is unnecessary hospital utilisation. In the opinion  of  some Kaiser-Permanente physicians, this is their main contribution not only to economic savings but to preventive medicine. 
I completely agree with this. One of the most depressing aspects of medical care as delivered in Australia at the present time is the tendency to perform unnecessary operations and unnecessary treatment on people because there is an economic incentive. I hope that honourable members opposite will not argue that this is not the truth, as the Australian Medical Association sometimes does, because they would contradict themselves. The AMA says that the only way to achieve a good medical service is to have an economic incentive. When one says That economic incentive causes these things' the AMA says: 'But the economic incentive would not make us do that sort of thing.* 
I refer again to over utilisation of and the need for many more hospital beds. The Kaiser-Permanente scheme which is the American scheme, is run on a non feeforservice basis. It operates on a ratio of 100 physicians per 100,000 members whereas the national average in 1970 was 155 physicians per 100,000 population. Hospital bed-days per 1,000 members ranged from 510 to 480 amongst the non fee-for-service people whereas individuals covered by Blue Cross or Blue Shield insurance or by the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program have consistently had more than 900 hospital bed-days per 1,000 members. That is nearly twice as many hospital beds if fee-for-service is involved. The honourable member for Hotham said that if we introduce some scheme removing the feeforservice incentive for doctors to put a person in hospital we will run out of hospital beds. The opposite is the case. 
This is a private organisation. 
I agree, and I was going to come to that. 
No. As I say, an important part of over utilisation is doctor induced. The expensive part of over utilisation is that it is expensive not only in the economic sense but also in the sense that the patient is introduced to drugs or is surgically treated for things which do not necessarily need surgical treatment. I think that is the important thing to remember when we are talking about health care delivery in Australia. 
Let us look at the alternative to the methods of health care delivery in our sort of country. We have firstly, the fee-for-service type; secondly, the salaried doctors; and thirdly, what are called health maintenance organisations. There are all kinds of mixtures between the 3 types. In Australia at the present time we basically have a mixture of fee for service doctors and salaried doctors. Really what the Government scheme will do is to change slightly the proportion of salaried doctors to fee for service doctors. When I say 'slightly' I mean slightly, because it will affect doctors only as far as their hospital patients are concerned. If anything, our scheme will encourage doctors to see people outside hospitals. As honourable members know, people covered under the pensioner medical scheme at the present time are not covered for specialist consultations and have to receive specialist consultation at a hospital. Under our scheme they will be able to see specialists privately, so those specialists will not be suffering or disadvantaged in any way. 
I agree that some medical practitioners, especially surgeons, will have fewer patients admitted to hospitals as intermediate or private ward patients if we remove the means test on people entering public wards in hospitals. On the other hand, of course, the doctors will be reimbursed, to some extent at least, because they will be paid for what is now called honorary work. They will be paid on a salaried basis, on a sessional basis in most cases. They will accept two or three sessions. At the present time an honorary surgeon performs a certain number of operations on public patients and he does not get paid for them. Under our proposal, of course, he will still perform the operations on public patients but he will be paid for them. He will not be paid on a fee for service basis but will be paid something of the order of $50 for a half day session. So he will be able to make a living. I do not think that many of us would really feel terribly sorry for him. 
One of the important things which we tend to forget and which the Australian Medical Association especially tends to forget - I am sorry that honourable members opposite tend to forget it, because they are custodians of the public purse as much as we on the Gov- ernment side are - is that private practitioners, especially specialists, who are using hospital facilities at the present time are really being subsidised. I know that they perform certain services in hospitals for nothing under the honorary scheme, but they are being subsidised by having all the facilities provided for them. They have back-up services provided; they have radiology services provided; they have resident medical officers provided in most major hospitals; they have pathology services provided and they have theatre sisters provided. All those services are provided for them. They even have the patients provided an many cases because the patients are referred to them and then classified as intermediate once they are in hospital. Therefore I urge that we should not feel sorry for doctors, or certain groups of doctors, when their income drops slightly. 
I am sorry to see that I have only 2 minutes speaking time left. I would just like to make one criticism of our scheme. My major criticism of it is that it does not alter things enough. I notice the new honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  who seemed to be listening to me, looking worried about my statement. I would like to have a private discussion with him. The point is that our proposal does not alter things sufficiently. It does not alter the incentive, to a large extent, of over-treating patients. We will still have those sorts of incentives. All we are really doing, as I see it, is changing the method of financing the scheme. I would urge the Government at some stage to have a look at the matter and offer a third method of health care delivery to Australia, such as the type of scheme provided by the health maintenance organisations, on a competitive basis with the 2 schemes that are in use at the present time - the fee for service scheme and the salaried doctors scheme. The method of financing is obviously one of the difficulties that will arise. But let the patient indicate what sort of scheme he prefers. Will he attend one kind of doctor? Will he attend another kind of doctor? Let the patient have a choice. It is ridiculous for the Government or the Opposition to say that people voted for the Government scheme or against it in any particular fashion, because the people did not understand the scheme. One of the depressing things I have found is that even medical practitioners did not understand the scheme. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the motion. I shall speak for only a moment. In relation to what the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said, I mention in passing that paragraph (2) of the motion moved by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  states: 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their cooperation in all relevant matters. 
We have in fact done that. It is important to note that the letter from the Minister for Transport to members of this House dealt with the question of road safety. I point out quite clearly that all the Minister sought was recommendations from local councils as to what were dangerous intersections and danger spots on the roads. It is depressing that the honourable member for Griffith, who no doubt had an extremely difficult electoral compaign to fight, did not have- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I accept your ruling. I realise that it may not have been the honourable member's tough election campaign. Maybe he cannot read, or perhaps he does not read letters in full. But the important point here is that the letter quite clearly pointed out that the Commonwealth Government did not want either to make decisions or - 
I shall go off that letter. The point is that the Committee received submissions from local councils, State governments, etc., on how to improve road safety. The Australian Government has come into the matter by the decision of the Government, with the co-operation of the Minister for Transport, in asking for suggestions on where an amount of money - I think he mentioned $3m - should be spent in the meantime until some overall plan can be brought in with the co-operation of local councils and State governments. 
That is a large amount of money which will be available for road safety. I think that is important. It is a great pity that one of the reasons why road safety is not going ahead in Australia and why we on the Committee are not able to get all the information which we need, is that there is such a diversion of power at the present time between local councils, State governments and the Australian Government. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)- I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Did he hear the right honourable the Leader of the Opposition this morning on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program 'A.M.' in which he grudgingly supported the rise in pension rates which was announced last night? 
Originally I had no intention of entering into this debate as I have participated in similar debates on numerous occasions. Whilst I appreciate that this additional legislation is necessary to bring about the introduction of the Government's health scheme, basically the debate this afternoon has been along the lines of previous debates on this subject. I will not take anywhere near the full amount of time that is allotted to honourable members who wish to speak in this debate. (Quorum formed.) I wish to thank the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  for providing an audience for me, temporary though it may be, by drawing attention to the state of the House. When the honourable member for Barker occupied the portfolio of Minister for Health in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government he was probably one of the most incompetent Ministers to come from honourable members on the other side of the House, which was not an easy thing to be. I well remember the occasion on which he provided an answer to a question on the costing of the introduction of oral contraceptives into the pharmaceutical benefits scheme in which he made the assumption that half of all the women who were not taking oral contraceptives at the time would immediately start to take them because their cost would drop from $1.30 a week to $1 a week. That is indicative of the sort of Minister he was. I suppose that is indicative of the sort of backbench member he is now. 
When I began my speech a few moments ago I was about to give the reason why I entered my name on the list of speakers in this debate today. I did so because the moralising tones of the remarks I had just heard from the honourable clergyman from Chisholm annoyed me. He tried to moralise about the merits of the present scheme and proposed scheme. When one listens to the remarks of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and to a lesser extent the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  one gets the feeling that at least they have examined the proposed scheme and have some reasonable or unreasonable objections to it. But the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who participates in debates of this nature occasionally, always tries to persuade us that what he is doing is being done for the highest motives, that there is only one way of looking at things and that that is more or less the way in which the diety would wish it to be done. 
I would like to deal with some of the points made by the honourable member for Chisholm. Firstly, he said that in the United 
Kingdom - and I think that this is completely irrelevant to the debate on the proposed scheme - one cannot change from one doctor to another and that one has no choice of doctors. That is quite ridiculous. The honourable member then confused the position in Australia with the position in the United Kingdom. He told us that in Australia one had to transfer from one list to another and that one could not do that in the United Kingdom. Of course, in Australia there are no lists and in the United Kingdom there are lists and people can transfer from one list to another by notifying the local post office that they are transferring to a new doctor. The honourable member for Chisholm said also that there would be less choice under the proposed scheme. That is completely untrue. There will be the same choice for the vast majority of people under the proposed scheme. There will be a significant group of people - over 1 million people - in Australia who will have a much greater choice. I am referring to those who are pensioners at the present time. 
Under the present pensioner medical service, as agreed to by the Australian Medical Association and successive governments, pensioners are entitled to attend the general practitioner of their choice and the Australian Government reimburses the general practitioner on an agreed basis, but if they attend a specialist the specialist is not entitled to be reimbursed at the specialist rate. Therefore, for practical purposes, they cannot attend a specialist in private practice but can see one only at the outpatients section of a hospital. Under the proposed scheme that will be changed. Under the proposed scheme any resident of Australia will be able to attend any doctor in his rooms and the doctor will be reimbursed on the basis of whatever is appropriate for the services of such a member of the medical profession. So under our scheme, pensioners, instead of having to go to the outpatients' department to have their present honorary physician look at them or their honorary ophthalmologist do an eye check, they will in fact be able to see the particular specialist they need in his roms for the purpose of having carried out the appropriate check-ups or whatever has to be done. The specialist will be reimbursed by the National Health Insurance Commission. So for approximately 10 per cent of the Australian population there is a significant improvement in choice. The same thing will apply also to repatriation patients who at the present time have to see their repatriation doctor. 
Br KLUGMAN- I do not feel strongly about the scheme; I am prepared to agree with that and accept that. I think that it will be a significant improvement but I certainly do not feel that it will be the cure-all of the difficulties of delivering health care in this country. I do not think anybody has discovered the cure-all for the delivery of health care yet, any more than anybody has discovered the cure-all for inflation. When one is in opposition one has the benefit of being able to attack whatever the Government is putting up or doing, but that does not mean that the present health scheme is the best one or that what we propose is necessarily the best. 
One of the points that arose from what the honourable member foi Hotham said and which arose out of a general discussion about the lack of necessity to change the present scheme is related to this argument of the number of people covered by the scheme. It is often a confused argument, and I often find that many people are prepared to enter it. Even the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  came into it during the election campaign. The way in which people like to calculate how many people are not covered by any scheme in Australia is to add together the number of people who are covered as members of medical benefits funds schemes, the number of people covered by pensioner medical services and the number of people covered by repatriation services, and deduct the total from the total population. But the figure obtained is not accurate because a person can be a member of a medical benefits fund scheme or hospital fund scheme - apparently this will arise to an even greater extent in the next few days - without being a financial member of that scheme. None of the funds will supply figures of their financial membership at any one time, and that is where the great difficulty arises. 
But a large number of people in the population have their hospital and medical fund contributions deducted at their place of work. They never really know that they are members of, say, the hospital fund, although in the sense that they do make a contribution which is deducted automatically from their wages they just assume that they are members. They might then transfer from that job to a different job - many of these people are in that group in the population which changes jobs fairly often - and their contributions cease to be deducted from their salaries. They therefore become unfinancial members of the fund. They are still members of the medical benefits fund but, for practical purposes, they are not making contributions towards the medical benefits fund or the hospital contribution fund. When they try to make a claim on the fund they are not successful because they find that they have not been members; they have not been paying their contributions for the last few months. 
I did not calculate figures. I have found that the only way to obtain figures - I did this when in Opposition - is to actually work them out. The funds will provide the figure which represents the amount of money they collected from their contributors. They will also provide the figure which represents the number of contributors, both family contributors and single contributors. From those figures one can work out how many financial contributors they have received over the whole year. Having calculated that, if I remember rightly, one finds that something like one and a half million people in Australia are not financial members of any fund, or entitled to pensioner medical services or repatriation services. I think this is a significant figure because only financial members of funds receive the benefits of belonging to a fund. 
I wish to mention 2 other points. The honourable member for Hotham made the point about alleged over-utilisation of hospitals in Queensland because they are free. I think it is important to remember that admission into a hospital is not by demand or request of a patient. Admission into a hospital is on the basis either of a reference from a doctor, or at least a doctor at the hospital admitting that patient because he is considered to be a person suitable for admission. So I think admissions to hospital are doctor generated. If one says that the number of people in Queensland hospitals is excessive compared with the number in hospitals throughout the rest of Australia, it is a doctor-generated excess; it is not a patient-generated excess. 
I turn now to the general question of cost. I am not sure what the costing figure will be. I do not know whether the Minister for Social 
Security  (Mr Hayden)  in reply will try to give some final costing figure. I think a lair bit of nonsense is being talked by people who argue that the proposed levy used to be 1.25 per cent; it is now intended to be 1.35 per cent; what will it be next year or the year after that? 
No. Let us face it, the sky is the limit only if we do not put some sort of curb on the costs of medical services. The sky is not the limit. The actual proportion that is paid out of general revenue and the proportion that is paid out of the 1.25 per cent or 1.35 per cent levy does not matter. It is an arbitrary figure as far as the Government is concerned. 
It is all taxpayers' money. Under the present scheme it is also all taxpayers' money. The argument that is going on at the present time is as to whether the hospital funds will have to increase their charges in New South Wales, for example.  'Mr Bourchier-  But you can claim the hospital fund payment against income tax at the moment. 
But the same people are paying for it; let us agree on that. The people of Australia who are employed and who are earning money are paying for it in some way or another. At the present time they are paying for it partly out of direct contributions, which are calculated on an equal basis, and partly out of a significant subsidy which is made by the Australian Government. The subsidy is much greater in the case of medical funds than in the case of hospital funds. How one alters that situation is purely a political proposition; what can be sold to the public. I think it is hypocritical to say that somehow or other there is some great benefit in keeping the levy down to 1.35 per cent and increasing the proportion of the cost that will be taken out of general revenue. 
Because of the argument that is going on at the present time between the Government and the funds in New South Wales I would like to quote the articles of association of the Medical Benefits Fund. The funds state that they will not talk to the Minister because the Minister insulted the directors who represent the contributors. The number of contributors is large. There are some one million contributors to the 2 funds involved, and the Medical Benefits Fund has stated that it received approximately $60m from its contributors last year. Let us look at how the directors of the Medical Benefits Fund are appointed. The position does not alter much as far as the Hospitals Contribution Fund is concerned. Clause 18 of the articles of association of the Medical Benefits Fund reads: 
Contributory members shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any general meetings or to receive notice thereof. 
Only medical members have a vote. Clause 7 reads: 
Medical members of the Association shall be elected by the Council or by a Committee appointed by the Council with power in that behalf. 
Only those medical members who have been appointed by the Council do in turn elect the Council. This is quite a ridiculous situation, because 5 medical members, out of a membership of over one million with dependants of another 2 million-odd, are the only members allowed to vote. Clause 37 states that 5 medical members personally present shall be a quorum of a genera] meeting of that Medical Benefits Fund. I think that is a scandalous position. I happen to know that some significant members of the Country Party are on the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund. However, I do not want to get into the sort of argument that we had recently in relation to the Australian Wool Commission. But the point remains nonetheless that to call those people representative of the contributors is just ridiculous. I ask the Parliament to look at the matter in a sensible way and try to work out some scheme which is of benefit to the vast majority of the population of Australia who are not directly involved in being directors of medical funds or hospital contribution funds. 
 My question is addressed to the Prime Minister, representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House. Has he seen reports of an alleged leak from the Department of Foreign Affairs that Australian diplomats will be provided with a uniform for certain occasions? Will he ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to oppose this suggestion on the basis that the Australian Labor Party, and I hope this Government, does not believe in uniforms for civilians? Secondly- 
But not with the reasons for it. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
By what percentages have the award wages for A class journalists, employed under Federal awards, increased since 1968. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average delay between receipt of a claim for (a) medical and (b) hospital benefit by each of the major health insurance funds in each State and the actual receipt of the benefit by the claimant. 
) Has the delay worsened in recent times. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he state for each of the major funds in each State, in relation to special account for (a) medical and (b) hospital funds, the number of entries and exits which occurred in each of the years 1971-72, 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
Can he give a further break-up list according to the following periods; July-September 1971, October-December 1971, January-March 1972, April-June 1972, JulySeptember 1972, October-December 1972, January-March 1973, April-June 1973, July-September 1973, OctoberDecember 1973, January-March 1974 and April-June 1974. 
Can he also give totals of entries and exits in each case. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) In relation to accommodation constructed under the Aged Persons Homes Act during the last twelve months, what has been the amount and percentage of the total cost met by (a) the Australian Government, (b) State Governments, (c) Local Governments, (d ) residents ' donations and (e ) voluntary agencies in (i) each State and (ii) Australia. 
) What are the comparable figures for the previous three twelve-monthly periods. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does any survey of the financial accounts of commercial nursing homes, in each of the States in recent years, indicate the range of profitability per bed, per year, over the range of homes surveyed; if so, what are the details. 
Can he give the mean, mode and median profitability per bed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many members on the staff of (a) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, (b) the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, (c) the Leader of the Australian Country Party, (d) the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and (e) the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate receive salaries, including overtime, of (i) $14,500 or more, and (ii) between $ 1 2,000 and $ 1 4,500 per annum. 
What are their names and positions. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security noted the recent report in the 'Bulletin' of 21 September concerning a Morgan gallup poll survey of the preference of people for the present health insurance scheme or 'a salaried medical service financed by a 1.35 per cent levy on taxable income'? Is the article in the 'Bulletin' illustrated by a photograph of the Minister for Social Security with the caption 'polls show no liking for his schemes'? Does that survey refer to the Government's universal health insurance program which is to come into operation next July or to an imaginary scheme which has not been suggested for Australia? 
I want to speak for only a few minutes on this matter. It gives me great pleasure to support the Bill in general. I should like to address myself particularly to clause 3 of the Bill which amends section 2 of the principal Act. It relates to the question of fees, and proposes altering the definition contained in paragraph (b) in sub-section (1) of section 2 of the principal Act. The Government has not been paying for fees payable to an organisation of students. The definition is being amended to read: 
Fees payable in respect of an organisation of students, or of students and other persons, or in respect of the provision to students of amenities or services that are not of an academic nature. 
I congratulate the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on standing up to very severe pressure from the Australian Union of Students last year when it tried to persuade the Government that university fees with respect to student organisations, sports unions, etc., should be among the fees paid for by this Government. 
It is relevant to remember that in this year's Budget it is proposed that more than $4 15m should go to universities. That is my rough calculation. The Minister may correct me. It is proposed that $46m shall go to the Australian National University and $369m to the States as grants to their universities. I feel I can do no better than quote from an article I wrote in a paper last year when this discussion was proceeding. I said that at that time the Australian Union of Students was running a strong campaign to force the Federal Government to subsidise compulsory university union, SRC and sports union fees. I said that the AUS leaders, who claim to be radicals, must be among the most selfish people in the community. I compare them with members of the Australian Medical Association and graziers as having a similarly strong conviction that the community owed them an extremely good living. I wrote: 
There is less justification for the Federal Government to subsidise the Sydney University Rugby Union Club, say, than a sporting club in one of Sydney 's disadvantaged areas. 
I also wrote: 
There is less reason for the Government to pay students' union and SRC fees than there is for paying the trades union and registered club subscriptions of low income workers. 
I was pleased to hear that the AUS, as on many other issues, was not representative of university student opinion. My article continued: 
It was pleasing to hear that at Melbourne University students defeated a motion calling for this government handout, and that at La Trobe University less than the quorum of 100 students turned up. . . . As far as the Labor Government is concerned, this is a question of priorities. We must use taxpayers' money to equalise opportunity. It could well be argued that every dollar spent on universities, as distinct from subsidies to students on a needs basis, is redistribution of income in the wrong direction. 
Money from taxpayers, most of it from low income groups, heavily subsidises students who come mainly from families in the upper 25 percent of income earners. 
I think it is extremely important to remember that fact. I have great reservations about the Federal Government paying the total amount of money required by universities. I do not think this need be at the top of our priorities. However we have introduced this proposal. It certainly is important to look after the money that we spend on universities. As I pointed out earlier, it amounts to more than $400m a year. It is important that we ensure that as far as possible it goes to deserving students and to deserving institutions. 
On the question of the Government not paying for compulsory fees to student organisations I think it is time for students at universities to consider whether there should be compulsory membership of student organisations- to consider whether membership of student organisations should not be voluntary. If membership were voluntary it would compel student organisations to show that they were doing things for their members. They would have to make it attractive enough for students to want to join. At present these organisations get about $20 a year from each student compulsorily and spend the money as they think fit, even though only a tiny proportion of students participate in the student organisations. I make these remarks having at one stage been Assistant General Secretary of the National Union of Australian University Students and active in university student affairs for a number of years. I do not think it is the function of either this Government or university councils to decide that membership of university organisations, such as unions or SRC, should not be compulsory. It is up to the students to make the decision as to whether they want money collected compulsorily from them and used in some cases for purposes of which they do not approve. I congratulate the Minister for standing up to the pressure from the students and on introducing the amendments contained in this Bill. 
I rise tonight, in the 10 minutes or so that I have available to me before the question is proposed that the House adjourn, to congratulate the Government on the Budget it has introduced. I may have minor arguments with some of the details, but broadly speaking I think the people I represent in this House have benefited greatly in having a Labor Government in power for the last 1 8 to 20 months. As an introduction, I would like to deal with some of the benefits that the people have received. Recently 3 local government councils in my area benefited from allocations by the Grants Commission. The Fairfield Council received $792,000, Holroyd Council received $280,000 and Penrith Council received $330,000. In the earlier part of this year the Fairfield Council received $800,000 from the Department of Urban and Regional Development, Holroyd received $320,000 and Penrith received over $800,000. So one can see that large amounts of money have become available for this relatively poor expanding area in the outer western suburbs of Sydney. The Department of Health has begun community health programs for the area. Some $2m was allotted in the previous year and again this year, and extra money has become available for psychiatric health services. The Australian Government's Department of Education has poured large amounts of money into the schools in this area. 
When we are dealing with the Department of Health I think it is important to mention again the Westmead Hospital. I note from the Appropriation Bill, with approval that some $28m has been set aside by the Australian Government for a hospital development program. Last year it offered $4.5m to the New South Wales Government to complete the plans for the Westmead Hospital. The New South Wales Government could not even use that money. In the end $2.3m was used- not all of it- by the New South Wales Government and very little of it was used in regard to the Westmead Hospital. In 1968 the then New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Jago  - 
-He was certainly better than the present one, but, just the same, quite incompetent. In 1968 he stated that the Westmead Hospital had the highest priority of any hospital in the State and that it would be completed in 1973, having some 1,200 beds. Then in 1972 he decided that it would not be completed until 1980 and that it would have a maximum of 800 beds. In the meantime, of course, tens of thousands of extra people have been added to the outer western suburbs. Expensive private hospitals and nursing homes have been built but the public sector has been ignored. Last year alone over 40,000 children from the outer western suburbs attended or were admitted to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children at Camperdown. In addition, many from the Green Valley and Liverpool areas have an arrangement to be admitted to the Prince of Wales Hospital at Randwick. Those who know the geography of Sydney know that the people from the outer western suburbs have to travel a very great distance to  visit  their children or to take their children to hospital in urgent cases. 
Relatively common conditions in children require fairly specialised treatment. Even such relatively common conditions as gastro-enteritis, burns, many types of poisoning, some types of nephritis and severe infections need specialist treatment. Many investigations for failure to thrive, orthopaedic conditions, severe asthma, convulsions and congenital malformations in some cases require immediate transfer at birth and have to be taken to the more specialised hospitals or, in some cases, require repeated attendance at a hospital with a proper pediatric unit, to attend the specialists and get the appropriate treatment. At present urgent admissions are often delayed by transport problems. The actual cost of transport for the parents- usually a mother visiting a child in hospital- is quite great. A 120-bed specialised children's unit has been proposed in the new Westmead Hospital. What has the State Government done? It has done nothing. 
We have given them money and they have not taken it. For the first time last year a federal government gave them the money and they could not even use it for planning. Waddy announced yesterday that he is still not going ahead. They still have the trotting track in the area at the showground. The Australian Government has now offered them the money to buy the area and the Australian Government was to erect the hospital. The State Government has rejected the offer. I will not go into the argument as to whether the Federal Government should be running the hospital, but the important thing is that the New South Wales Government has rejected the money, has rejected the offer and is doing nothing. It says itself that the hospital will now cost something approaching $100m and that it will not be ready until 1980 at the earliest. Since work has not started on it we have some doubts about 1980. 
As the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is sitting at the table I would like to point out that $3. 5m has been voted for the Department of Transport for the Parramatta railway. Investigations will be made about taking it out to the Hoxton Park area in my electorate to improve transport services out our way. Because the Minister is very keen about the environment may I say in passing that the construction of such a railway will involve also the removal of some houses and no doubt some rare species of plant and animal life will be affected, as at Lake Pedder. There may be effects to something such as the Merrylands weed which grows only in that particular area. We will have the same sort of self-appointed environmentalists, often led by the Communist Party of Australia, opposing the construction. I am just issuing a warning that, just because something is being put up by the Federal Government, we will not necessarily fail to receive opposition from people who like to oppose any proposition. 
In the few minutes left to me tonight I would like to complain about the sanctimonious hypocrisy of the Opposition and the media in relation to unemployment. They pretend to be concerned but in fact they are pleased, because it is politically profitable for them. They use scare tactics in what to some extent become self-fulfilling prophecies. If one tells private industry long enough and often enough that there is going to be a depression or that there is going to be unemployment, this becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy because they postpone necessary investments. I say 'necessary investments' because in the present free market economy which the Opposition and the media so strongly defend we have some unused resources at the present time and yet significant shortages of goods. Manufacturers claim that they cannot sell their products and yet retailers claim that they cannot get hold of products. So there is obviously something wrong there. I put it to honourable members that because of the panic stricken estimates about the future of the economy manufacturers- incorrectly, to my mind- are postponing investments and are therefore unable to supply their goods. This will lead to some unemployment because people are not being influenced to increase investments. If one wants to buy furniture or house fittings in Sydney, for example, one finds that our brilliant private enterprise economy makes one wait for weeks or months in some cases until they actually produce the goods. 
-Strikes are not the important issue at the present time. There have not been any strikes in the furniture industry for some considerable time. Anybody would think that each specific item was tailor-made. If one goes and orders a table or a bed it has to be made by the factory. They do not have any in stock. Let us look at the employment position more closely. Between December 1972 and June 1974 the number of employees in Australia increased by about 340,000 compared with an increase of about 70,000 a year, which would have amounted to about 105,000 in the corresponding 18 months period under the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. During the 18 months under our Government 340,000 extra people were employed in Australia compared with approximately 105,000 extra that would have been employed under the 'progress' made under the previous Government. Therefore there are still some 150,000 to 200,000 more people in employment now than there would have been had the previous Government continued in power. 
It is all very well to laugh about it, but have a look at the actual number of people in employment. It is quite clear that a large number of extra people joined the work force last year. I think it is a good thing that they did. A large number of extra people joined the work force in the early part of this year. Some of them have become unemployed. The total number of people employed- this is the important thing as far as the country is concerned, although I concede that it is not the important thing from the point of view of the people who are presently unemployed- the total number of people receiving a wage in Australia at the present time is about 150,000 to 200,000 more than would have received a wage under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government at the rate at which they were increasing their- 
Employers?  Mr Speaker,  this may be an opportune time to adjourn. 
-When this debate was interupted last evening, I had exhaused half of the time available to me in this debate. Consideration of an Appropriation Bill is one of the occasions when one is able to speak in this House on a number of issues. One of the proposals for which money is appropriated in this Bill is the extension to certain States and the continuation in other States of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I draw the attention of the House to some of the problems that are arising at present with respect to this Office. 
Last week, in South Australia, a  Mrs Strattnan  sought as a solicitor employed by the Australian Legal Aid Office in Adelaide to bring a case before  Mr Justice  Sangster.  Mrs Strattnan  said that she was not acting as a principal on behalf of the applicant in the sense of being entitled to receive or retain any fees for her attendance. She was being paid by the Australian Government as a staff solicitor of the Australian Legal Aid Office. The judge immediately ruled that she had no right of audience and gave the following reasons for his decision, among others: 
The court has given long standing directions that no practitioner who is not representing his client as a principal shall appear as counsel for the client in court or in chambers . . .. 
Later in his ruling, the judge said: 
In chambers or in court, the Court is entitled to look to the practitioner representing a party as having the right to speak for and bind the party in relation to the proceedings and this, too, is a right which is clouded if the practitioner is not engaged by the party but employed by some outside party, albeit a government. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that, although this is certainly protection of private enterprise for the legal profession, it is wrong. At present, many solicitors appear for people in cases such as third party cases and the like. In those cases the solicitors obviously are being paid by the insurance companies concerned; they are not being paid by the parties named in the action. That is quite clear. Yet, this judge in South Australia has ruled that people who do not employ directly their own solicitors cannot be represented by those solicitors in court. I think that the point of view is a biased one and that it is important that the Australian Government should take the matter up and make it quite clear that, whilst certain judges and members of the legal profession as a whole would like to protect their interests and continue private practice which is almost the sole concept of the legal practice, this is not a procedure acceptable to the whole of the Australian population. 
It is interesting to note that on almost the same day the opposite view was put in an article in the 'National Times' with respect to a case that was heard before a court of appeal in New South Wales. Questions were raised by the court which refused the application from the applicant because he had not applied for legal aid in the terms of the official scheme in operation. This person was represented by counsel from the Council for Civil Liberties. I have been a member of the Executive and have sat on the committee of the Council for Civil Liberties for many years- in fact, ever since its foundation until I went overseas last year. One of the rules of the Council for Civil Liberties has been that no lawyer who is on the Executive or on the committee of that Council can be paid when acting on behalf of the Council; otherwise this action would be open to the suggestion that such a lawyer would take jobs and be paid for them on the basis of being a committee member of the CCL. The Council has stated quite clearly that a lawyer who is on the Council committee and who appears for an applicant or a defendant in a case cannot accept payment for that appearance. Yet this court of appeal in New South Wales with respect to this involved case to which I have drawn the attention of the House refused the application in question. This case and the case in South Australia raised important issues which must be faced by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and his Department following the introduction of the Australian Legal Aid Office scheme and the extension of the operations of that scheme. 
In the few minutes that remain to me, I wish to deal with what the Labor Government has done in the 2 years that it has been in office. We have tried to improve social equality in Australia. Today wages as a proportion of gross domestic product have risen significantly when compared with the figure in previous years. Despite inflation, in real terms, Australians have done reasonably well since the Labor Government came to office. In real terms, average weekly earnings have increased by 3.2 per cent in the year to June 1 973- admittedly for half of that year the former Liberal-Country Party Government was in office- and have increased by 3.9 per cent in the year to June 1 974. Further, in the year to March 1974, real gross national expenditure has increased by a remarkable 12 percent. 
It is important when people talk about taxation and complain, as everbody does, about excessive taxation to realise that what is paid in tax is not a loss to the taxpayer. The taxpayer gains through increased social welfare benefits, education, roads, sewerage, and so on. One of the difficulties which governments face- not only in Australia- is that political parties have been almost swept into office with ridiculous policies for the abolition of taxation as we have seen in some Scandinavian countries. It is important for a government to make quite clear to the public that money collected through taxation is not wasted. I am not saying that some of the money so collected is not wasted occasionally. The media draws attention to that fact in the same way as the Opposition must draw attention to what it considers are similar deficiencies in the Government. Almost all of the additional money which is collected through taxation is used for good purposes. 
I believe that some important things have happened under this Government. I have little time available to me, so I will concentrate on social security. Under this Government there has been a further important step towards greater social equality. This was the increased level of pensions announced at the end of July. For the first time ever in Australia's history, age pensions were raised to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings at that time. Although the position is not yet satisfactory- average weekly earnings are going ahead and the next increase in pensions will not be due until the beginning of next year there is no doubt that pensioners under this Labor Government have done better than ever before. Between October 1972 and July 1974 the consumer price index increased by 20.7 per cent In the same period, because of the Labor Party's increases in pensions, the married rate pension increased by 49.3 per cent and the single rate pension 

<graphic href="090131197010024_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. 
That is a comparison in which the rate of inflation is taken into account. I conclude on the following 4 general points. The Labor Government has done a good deal in a short time as a reforming government. 
There is a limit to the speed at which social change can be introduced. 
Well, it has been deforming in the sense that we took over a deformed economy, but I will not go into that in detail now. In such fields as health, social security and help for Aborigines and in other areas such as education, the Labor Government has tried in a way that the Liberals did not to introduce genuine social reform. Many of the changes introduced are irreversible and whether the Australian Labor Party increased by 55 per cent. There were other significant increases in pension rates. I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out 'Labor's Record on Pension Increases'. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the ABC representative in Peking restricted to certain parts of the city. 
Is movement outside Peking restricted to ( a) a corridor to the airport and (b) a corridor to a picnic area at the Great Wall. 
Was the representative forbidden to use a camera for his television work during early 1974. 
In order to protect its man in Peking, is it a fact that the ABC does not use reports on China emanating from Hong Kong. 
How does the ABC measure the cost-benefit of its Peking Bureau. 
It is a great pity that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  as a relatively senior member of the Opposition, did not get a go in the Budget debate. He obviously had prepared a speech on the Budget and was forced to make it tonight during the adjournment debate. Before I get on to the main part of my remarks tonight, I would like to mention one matter. The honourable member for Angas was attacking us about inflation. I would like to give one example of what causes inflation. One of my constituents brought in to me the invoices and accounts that he had received in relation to the purchase of an airconditioner unit. He went to one of the large stores in Parramatta and brought an airconditioner unit which he intended to instal himself. He was charged $475. He ordered a General Electric unit. The General Electric unit was delivered to his place by the General Electric Co. The store had nothing more to do with it. He found inside that General Electric airconditioner an invoice for $236.56, which is less than half the amount he was charged for it. In addition to that, he decided to buy a General Electric unit because he wanted an Australian made air-conditioner which could be fixed readily in the event of a breakdown. When he looked at it he found it was imported from Hong Kong. 
The main reason I rise tonight is to draw the attention of the House to some very dangerous tendencies that are developing inside the Liberal Party. I know that that Party has had a lot of publicity during the last weekend for becoming a trendy Party and for being with it, and so on. But 1 would like to draw the attention of the House to 2 things that have come to my notice, one very recently and one not so recently. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  was appointed as spokesman on immigration by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I would like to read to the House from the Immigration Control Association's publication called 'Viewpoint'. In that publication the Association expresses its gratitude for that appointment and says how keen it is and how pleased it is about the appointment of the honourable member for Warringah. The publication reads: 
Hearty congratulations to Michael MacKellar (MHR for Warringah). 
Later on the gentleman who writes this vicious, racist publication, one Robert Clark, under the heading 'An Interesting Morning in Canberra', states: 
On a trip to Canberra with my wife and another member of the Immigration Control Association we dropped in to the House of Representatives to talk to a few of the members. 
I am sure they were all members from the other side of the House. The publication continues: 
We spoke to a few MPs one of whom invited us to the Speaker's Gallery the following morning. 
While we sat there waiting for question time  Mr MacKellar  to whom some of our members including myself and our other member who was with me had given solid election support in his fight against St John in the previous election . . . 
I think it is important to note that the honourable member for Warringah has been appointed to a position which is particularly sensitive to the propositions of the Immigration Control Association. 
I wish to refer also to the Parramatta 'Advertiser' of 9 October 1974 which carried an article headed 'Libs Special Guest'. The article appeared as a result of one of the handouts of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  The article reads: 
Guest  speaker  at the meeting of the Parramatta branch of the Young Liberal Movement on Monday, 14 October, will be national director of the Australian League of Rights,  Mr E.  D. Butler. 
The meeting will be in Parramatta Business and Professional Men 's Club, Marsden Street at 7.30 p.m. 
Parramatta Branch of the Young Liberal Movement is active in all matters affecting the welfare of young people in the western area. 
-No, with all due respect to the honourable member for Adelaide, I think the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has dissociated himself from Eric Butler, and so have other members of the Opposition, especially members of the Australian Country Party. I now refer to the Australian Country Party's report circulated in July 1971 which makes reference to Eric Butler, the friend of the honourable member for Parramatta and the man that the honourable member for Parramatta invited to address the Young Liberals in the area to tell them what it is all about. The report gave a rundown on Eric Butler's career- his virulent anti-Semitism, his support for the Nazis, his attacks on the Australian war effort and his writing for 'The New Times'. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  of course, is a close friend of all those people and has always supported them. He is probably the person in this House best known as a close supporter of the sort of views expressed by the League of Rights in Australia 
-I am sure that the honourable member does not consider it a bitter attack. In its report the Australian Country Party described the League of Rights as having a disreputable and racist basis, which it is now trying to conceal; declared the disciples of social credit, which Butler advocates, as sheer fanatics; quoted some of his writings on the communist conspiracy, which it then categorises as 'the language of paranoia'; spoke of Butler's violent opposition to parliamentary government, his long catalogue of hates; and stated that there is something breathtaking about lunacy on this scale. This is what the Country Party said about  Mr Eric  Butler. It should be compared with what the honourable member for Parramatta says about  Mr Eric  Butler whom he invited to address the Young Liberal Movement in Parramatta and whom he said would inform it on all matters affecting the welfare of young people in the western area. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Douglas  Anthony, has condemned the League as disreputable, racist, anti-Semitic and pro-Nazi. I would certainly like to give credit to him and to other members of the Country Party who have had the courage to speak when so many others have long remained silent. At a time of inflation and of economic downturns in the community and of significant unrest in the community, it is up to those of us in this House who should surely be supporting parliamentary democracy to make it quite clear that we dissociate ourselves from those sorts of people. Although it is not my fault, I realise that tonight because the adjournment debate has been reduced to 20 minutes instead of the usual 30 minutes, the honourable members for Warringah and Parramatta will not be able to reply to me. 
No, I will not take advantage of it, but I think it is important, when a sitting member of this Parliament becomes identified with the Immigration Control Association or the National Director of the Australian League of Rights, that it is made clear that he does not speak for the whole of his Party. If he does speak for the whole of his Party, that Party dissociates itself from - 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What was the cost of weekly family subscription to (a) the lowest rate medical benefit funds and (b) hospital funds at (i) public and (ii) intermediate rate, as a percentage of the basic wage and later the minimum weekly wage in New South Wales in (a) 1946, (b) 1949, (c) 1955, (d) 1960, (e) 1965, (0 1970, (g) as at 30 June, 1972 and what is it at present. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the significance of his prefacing answers to some questions, 'I am informed that the answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:' and to the others, 'The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:' 
Does he take equal responsibility for the accuracy of the answer in both cases. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. Just before the sitting was suspended the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  said that I had made serious allegations against him last night during the adjournment debate. I forget the exact words that were used. I did not write them down. It is true that last night I made serious allegations against him and against the shadow Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  I make the point that I concluded my remarks by saying:  . . . it is up to those of us in this House who should surely be supporting parliamentary democracy to make it quite clear that we dissociate ourselves from those sorts of people. 
I was referring to  Mr Eric  Butler in the case of the honourable member for Parramatta, and to the Immigration Control Association in the case of the honourable member for Warringah. I am pleased, and I accept the assurance of the honourable member for Parramatta, that he dissociates himself from  Mr Eric  Butler and from the Young Liberals in Parramatta. I am sorry that the shadow Minister for Immigration has not seen fit to dissociate himself from the Immigration Control Association and from its support. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I draw your attention to an advertisement appearing on page 11 of today's 'Australian Financial Review'. It is an advertisement illustrated with a picture of a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe. The wording below and adjacent to the picture states, inter alia: 'Money-back guarantee ' and 'your money back at any time within 12 months if you are not entirely satisfied'. I realise that the reference is probably to the contents of a book which is illustrated with the picture of the right honourable member for Lowe. But I was wondering,  Mr Speaker,  whether you would look at the matter from the point of view of contempt of Parliament. 
-I hope not to take the 10 minutes allowed each  speaker  to discuss the estimates for the Parliament. May I take up a couple of points made by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)?  I did not hear the whole of his speech. I support his reference to, and I assume to some extent approval of, the proposition that there ought to be fixed times for divisions. What happens at present is quite ridiculous. I do realise at the same time that it is in the interests of the Government to have fixed times for divisions. Oppositions expect to lose divisions whilst governments require to win divisions. Therefore, having a fair knowledge of when divisions will be called or will become necessary obviously is in the interests of a government. 
An opposition has nothing to lose if the number of its members present for a division is down by 2, 5 or 20. An opposition expects to lose a division anyway. But a government must always have a majority. It is therefore in the interests of a government to have established times for divisions. At a time when many people see some volatility in the political processes of this country with the possibility of changes in those in government and those in opposition, it may well be in the interests of the managers of this House and of parliamentarians as a whole to get together and to come to some agreement on the question of fixing times for the holding of divisions or, at least, of having some range of times within which divisions are likely to be held or are not likely to be held. 
I did not accept the point made by the honourable member for Angas who seemed to deplore the fact that some members fail to pay special courtesy to the Chair. If the honourable member meant by his remarks what we consider to be the normal courtesies in any situation of taking note of what the  Speaker,  the  Deputy Speaker  or the Chairmen of Committees have to say, I have no quibble. But I do deplore the proposition that we are supposed to bow and scrape to the occupant of the Chair when we come into this chamber or leave it. I object to propositions of that type. I must admit that I try to avoid those situations whenever possible. I know that they are traditions. I suppose that that is part of the reason why I oppose them. I consider that such practices are quite pointless. 
I wish to take a couple of minutes now to deal with a touchy subject as far as the general public is concerned. I refer to the question of remuneration for parliamentarians. Earlier this year- I think it was in July- a report was table from the Remuneration Tribunal which, in effect, made a new award for parliamentarians. Legislation to establish this tribunal had been previously agreed to by the Parliament. I think that it was passed unanimously in this place. That legislation provided for the setting up of a Remuneration Tribunal before which people would be entitled to give evidence both for and against salary rises and improvements in conditions for parliamentarians. 
When that report was presented, the Liberal and Country Parties were panicked by a sanctimonious and hypocritical Press into disallowing the regulations which were necessary for the recommendations of that report to be adopted. I emphasise that that was the reason for the behaviour of those Parties. I think that probably many Liberal Party and Country Party members now will agree with me in what I say, having seen the 'beneficial' results which flowed from their action. 
The denial of parliamentary increases has not led to any restraint on the part of any other parliamentarians or public servants. I think I read in a newspaper yesterday that Queensland parliamentarians are receiving higher salaries than we receive. Aldermen in the Brisbane City Council also receive higher salaries than we do. State parliamentarians in New South Wales and Western Australia, I believe, also receive salaries which are higher than the salaries paid to us. In many cases, these parliamentarians live in the capital city in which the State Parliament is located. Their parliamentary work is performed in their city of residence. In other words, a large proportion of State parliamentarians in New South Wales have their homes in Sydney and attend Parliament there on the days when it sits. Members of this Parliament must travel to Canberra every week that Parliament sits to attend parliamentary sittings. I deplored at the time and I still deplore that panic reaction on the part of the Opposition - 
Well, it is not the usual thing to criticise people on your own side; and I will not - 
-AU right. I am prepared to make my remarks broader. I deplore the fact that some parliamentarians- a minority on our side and a majority on the Opposition side- were panicked by what I called earlier a sanctimonious and hypocritical Press. 
I thank the honourable member for Griffith for his support. It is important to remember just how sanctimonious and hypocritical the journalists of that Press and the Press itself were. Sob stories were run- completely untrue stones-about the sort of income that parliamentarians receive. The 'Canberra Times', the local newspaper, was leading one of the attacks on increases in parliamentary salaries. It ran big editorials on the subject. In the very week that we were discussing the report of the Remuneration Tribunal it increased its advertising charges by a greater percentage than that by which it was proposed parliamentary salaries should be increased. 
Soon after that, the Fairfax organisation increased its charges very significantly for a number of its publications. I suppose other similar organisations did too. In my remarks now, I am criticising not only, as I normally do, the owners of the Press but also the individual journalists and reporters who behaved abominably. These same reporters had recently received a salary increase and at the time when this matter arose were putting in an application for another 30 per cent increase in their award wages. They were attacking us hypocritically. 
I was not expecting to speak on this issue. If I had expected to do so, and if time was available to me, I would have brought into the Committee with me an article which appeared in the financial pages of last week's Sydney 'Sun'. It dealt with so-called perks for parliamentarians. The article was completely wrong and if the reporter researches his financial articles as well, it is no wonder his followers lost a lot of money. Many of the statements which appeared in that article, as all parliamentarians here would obviously know, were completely wrong. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Griffith make the point that it is just ridiculous to say that there are a large number of perks associated with being a parliamentarian. At present we receive about $22 a day as a living away from home allowance. I would be surprised if many people who receive living away from home allowances, whether they be journalists or public servants, are paid allowances for that purpose of less than $22 per day. If you calculate your expenses you find that actual expenses are much more than the $4100 which is provided as a tax free allowance to members. I was a medical practitioner before I came into this Parliament and, as I have said before, I earned more in 1969 as a medical practitioner than I earn now as a parliamentarianand medical incomes have increased quite considerably since then. 
The other point I make is that, unlike the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  I do not have 2 other incomes. I do not vote myself wool subsidies and wheat subsidies and then deplore in the newspapers handouts by governments and get paid for writing that. I try to be reasonably consistent in my attitude, but I am not the slightest bit ashamed to say that members of Parliament deserve more, that many of us have made a significant financial sacrifice and that the ridiculous action taken by the Opposition earlier this year will make it extremely difficult for us to get any more increases, because there will never be a time when we can adopt the next report from the remuneration tribunal. If it performs its job as a remuneration tribunal, the increase next time will be so huge that again we will not be able to accept it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Hume. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs will cease interjecting or he will not be here to know whether it is good or otherwise. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I was certainly interested in listening to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  It is a pity that reading slowly earlier the speech which had been written for him and having some trouble with it, as my 7- year-old daughter often has, he then did not have enough time to complete it when he finally started reading it more quickly. Listening to him, I certainly was not surprised at the story he told me last night about buying a pair of water skis a couple of years ago. When I asked him whether he had used them or not he said he had not been able to because he had not found a lake with a slope. 
-I will accept that the honourable member has found a lake with a slope. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I thought the honourable member for Darling Downs was taking a point of order. He is not, so I suggest the honourable member for Prospect continue his speech. 
I accept the point of the honourable member for Darling Downs that he has now found a lake with a slope and I hope that he gets to use his water skis soon. He referred in passing to the provision in the Estimates for Federal-State finances research at the Australian National University. He has not been here for very long, but he may be interested to know that that particular item was introduced by the McMahon Government some two or three years ago when the previous Prime Minister panicked on the question of Federal and State relations and decided that, instead of setting up committees and commissions in the way some people do, it was better to refer the question to a university because it took even longer to get a result. That is what happened on that particular issue. 
I would like to deal with some of the items appearing in the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Special Minister of State. The first item with which I would like to deal concerns the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I note that an amount of $5.5 m has been set aside for administrative expenses. I know that no specific explanation is ever given as to how money is spent by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and I do not dispute the need for the existence of some form of security intelligence organisation, but I do dispute the argument that the Parliament and, through the Parliament, the people of Australia should not be given some indication of how large the Organisation is. Honourable members will note that there is no indication on page 89 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75 of the amount spent on salaries and payments in the nature of salary. I take it that that is intended so as not to let us know approximately how many people are employed by that Organisation from year to year. I think that is wrong. If there were a sudden increase or decrease in the number of people employed by ASIO I think it is important that the Parliament should know about it. The Parliament should be entitled to ask questions about ASIO in relation to general issues and the sort of work it is doing. I deplore the fact that the Government, which was elected on the basis- I strongly support that basis- of open government as far as possible, does not co-operate more in relation to this item. 
In passing I mention the item in division 430 which relates to state funerals. I note that last year an amount of $9,000 was appropriated for state funerals and that $8,346 of the appropriation was expended. This year the appropriation is for only $2,400. 
It must be due to the introduction of the Government's health scheme that there is a more optimistic approach to the subject of state funerals. I hope that whoever is responsible for setting the figure is right. In relation to the subject of the conveyance of the Governor-General by aircraft, I notice that the appropriation to the Royal Australian Air Force last year was $1,015,574 and expenditure was $1,015,573. That is nearly up to the standard of ASIO, in relation to which the appropriation and the expenditure are exactly the same. I think it is a pity if that is not really an accurate figure. 
I turn to division 447, which relates to the Prices Justification Tribunal. I congratulate the Government on establishing the Prices Justification Tribunal. I think that generally speaking it is making a good job of a very difficult position, particularly in view of the debate about the powers of the Tribunal. I think it important that there should not be any suggestion that things are not completely above board as far as the Prices Justification Tribunal is concerned. In that connection I note that the Prices Justification Tribunal normally deals with applications concerning Sydney companies in Sydney and Melbourne companies in Melbourne but that the application in relation to the Fairfax organisation- a Sydney organisation- was dealt with in Melbourne. Because the hearings by the Prices Justification Tribunal of the application by the Fairfax organisation were held in Melbourne it was much more difficult for some people to participate and submit evidence in that case. 
I turn to the appropriations for the Department of the Special Minister of State, which appear at page 1.13 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). I refer in particular to the item concerning the royal commission which is inquiring into the maritime industry. I am pleased that a royal commission has been set up by the Government on the initiative of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to inquire into this matter. I know some of the people who are involved in the royal commission and I have the utmost confidence in them. I refer to  Mr Justice  Sweeney and  Mr R.  St. John, Q.C. I have one reservation and it is a significant reservation. Being one who feels very strongly that the trade union movement should, as far as possible, be a separate organisation- a completely separate entity- I think that the Government should have as little power over the trade union movement as possible. If we want to preserve liberty in a democracy we must insist that in a pluralist society the different sources of power have as much power as possible. Therefore I deplore one of the terms of reference of that royal commission. I refer to the one concerning the legality of the payments or demands and their propriety having regard in particular to Australian trade union principles and ethics. Superficially that may be a very simple and reasonable thing to ask a royal commission to decide, but I do not feel that a royal commissioner should decide the ethics and principles of the trade union movement in Australia. I have the utmost confidence in the royal commissioner in this respect but I think that it is a wrong precedent to set to leave it to a non-member of a particular organisation somehow to decide fundamentally the principles and ethics of the trade union movement of Australia. With those few minor criticisms of the items presented in the estimates, I congratulate the Government on its excellent performance generally, and specifically on the performance of the 2 departments which are now under examination. 

 Mr McVEIGH (Darling Downs)-Mr  Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I think the honourable member should tell the Committee in what way he has been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females formerly employed at Borg-Warners, Villawood, registered as unemployed in (i) June, (ii) July and (iii) August 1974. 
How many of them were still registered as unemployed (a) 1 month, (b) 2 months and (c) 3 months after registering. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many employees of the Australian Government applied for maternity leave benefits between 1 July 1973 and 30 June -&gt;'"4. 

 Mr Whitlam The question to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that, between 1 July 1973 and 30 June 1974, a total of 3582 Australian public servants started maternity leave. Of these, 2954 were officers, 252 were temporary employees and 376 were exempt employees. 
Statistics on the application of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act are not centrally collected but the Public Service Board has provided the above information on staff employed under the Public Service Act. Although this information is not expressed in terms of employees who applied for benefits but covers only those who received benefits, the Board has pointed out that, under the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act, eligible persons have a statutory entitlement to the maternity leave provisions. The statistics provided above should therefore reflect the number of eligible public service applicants. 

 -Mr Speaker, I . wish to make a personal explanation. 
Well - 
-Yes, I do. The personal explanation made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  could be interpreted to mean that I had suggested that he received some payment for the article that he wrote. That certainly was not my proposition. My criticism was of the magazine 'Rydges'. I did not for a minute think that the right honourable member for Lowe would accept payment for writing an article for the magazine. I am sorry if that implication in any way came across, because it certainly was not intended when I asked the question last Thursday. 
-In rising to speak on the appropriation for the Attorney.General's Department I should like to associate myself with most of the remarks made by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who preceded me in the debate, on the question of the ombudsman and the other review machinery which is so necessary. I do not agree with his political statements, of course, in which he blames us, after 20 months in government, for not doing things that the government of honourable members opposite did not do for many years. At the same time, I do agree in principle with his remarks. If the unfortunate thing should happen that we become the Opposition again, I hope that that misfortune is tempered for the Australian people by the honourable member for Wentworth becoming the Attorney-General rather than  Senator Greenwood  who was a completely unfortunate choice for anybody who believes in civil liberties in this community. 
I should like to address myself specifically to some of the questions arising, as far as the law is concerned, in the Australian legal aid offices. I may not have sufficient time to go into detail, so I will start by making a general point in relation to a matter that has been raised with me by some lawyers I know. It is concerned with the admission of lawyers to the legal aid offices. At present it is purely a career service. In other words, lawyers will opt to go into the Australian legal aid service and become lawyers permanently on a salary. I think that the AttorneyGeneral should consider the proposition that temporary appointments may be given to people who may be prepared to leave a much more lucrative law practice for 3 months or 6 months or a year and go into the legal aid offices on this temporary basis and thereby be able to offer the sort of experience that lawyers develop when they have been private practising lawyers. People who join the legal aid offices may not have such experience if they join on a career basis. The people who join on a temporary basis would be an addition to the career staff in the Department and it would make it possible to have in the service quite prominent, impressive, capable and experienced lawyers to handle some of the more important cases and the more difficult cases for which it would be too expensive to retain people on a fee for service basis. 
Let me deal with one of the problems that has arisen in the legal aid service. I raised this matter earlier in the debate on the Appropriation Bill. It is concerned with a case in South Australia in which  Mr Justice  Sangster has held that as the lawyer concerned was not acting as a principal on behalf of the applicant in the sense of being entitled to receive or retain any fees for her attendance because she was being paid by the Australian Government she had no right of audience. The Judge ruled accordingly and gave that as his reason. I deplore that decision. The same sort of situation has arisen in an opposite sense in New South Wales. Honourable members who read the 'National Times' 2 weeks ago and read the current issue will have noted an article written by  Mr Staples,  barrister-at-law in Sydney, who made certain accusations against the justice system in New South Wales. There was a reply from  Mr Maddison,  who is Minister for Justice in 
New South Wales, and there was a further reply from  Mr Staples  in this current issue. I join with the editorial comment of the 'National Times' when, speaking of  Mr Maddison,  it says: 
For his first remarks, which were made in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly on October 10 were disturbing. At the outset  Mr Maddison  revealed the poverty of his case by spending a considerable time attacking the character of  Mr Staples. Mr Maddison  recalled  Mr Staples  had been a former member of the Communist Party - 
That was back in 1 950- a disappointed Labor pre-selection candidate - 
And worst of all- and was a member of the Council for Civil Liberties. 
It is interesting to note here that this was taken by  Mr Maddison  to be a reply to a considerate case dealing with the administration of justice in the State of New South Wales. It may be relevant to state here, because I was on the Council for Civil Liberties in New South Wales since its inception until last year, that the New South Wales Government has seen fit to appoint at least 3 members of that Council- just quickly I shall recall them by name:  Mr Justice  Hope,  Mr Justice  Holland and  Mr Justice  Martin- to very high judicial offices in New South Wales. Yet  Mr Maddison  considers this to be a criticism. At the present time the membership of that Council comprises such people as  Mr Clyde  Packer, Liberal member of the State Legislative Council, and Richard Kroll, who is Director of the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party's Communications Centre. So it can hardly be said that that Council is prejudiced in any sort of political sense. 
The point that I want to make deals with a case in which the court of appeal in New South Wales refused to hear an appeal from a prisoner who was seeking to test the legality of a glass and metal partition which was erected by prison authorities and which divided him and his counsel during discussions at the gaol. The Crown persuaded the court not to hear the case because the prisoner could not satisfy the court that he could meet the Crown's costs. In his reply to  Mr Staples, Mr Maddison  makes the point that the legal advisers to the prisoner chose not to apply for legal aid but to use the good offices of the Council for Civil Liberties. He said that this was admitted by  Mr Staples  in his article, and that the outcome might have been different had legal aid been sought and granted. It is ridiculous for the State of New South Wales to put forward the proposition that if a person is represented by a Lawyer who does not charge any fee, as in the case of people who are represented by the Council for Civil Liberties, then that fact alone is sufficient for the court of appeal to argue that it should not hear the appeal because costs may be involved. 
Let us assume that the person concerned had applied for legal aid. Then apparently the Court of Appeal would have heard the case. If the litigant had been unsuccessful, then what would have happened? Consolidated Revenue would have reimbursed the State of New South Wales. In addition to that Consolidated Revenue would have had to pay for the cost of the lawyers of the litigant. Under the other proposition there would have been no cost to the litigant. Surely Consolidated Revenue was actually advantaged and protected by the failure of the prisoner to apply for legal aid. Nothing had to be paid to his lawyers, otherwise the status remained as it was before. Yet the prisoner was shut out of court on the Crown's argument that the Crown- that is, Consolidated Revenue- was threatened with an irreparable and unfair disadvantage. If that is the argument that is going to be accepted then, as  Mr Staples  put it, the world is surely standing on its head. I feel very strongly that there is too little criticism of lawyers and especially of judges in Australia. 
I was pleased when  Mr Justice  Jacobs was appointed to the High Court during the last year, I think it was. He wrote an excellent article some years back- I could not put my hands on it today- in which he argued very strongly that the administration of the law and how the judges acted in their courts ought to be subject to criticism. He said that the sort of proposition which has been put forward, sometimes even in this Chamber, that some how or other judges should not be criticised was a medieval attitude which we should not accept and that it is important that people and parliamentarians- not just because they are protected by the privilege of Parliamentand other people should be able to criticise judges and their judgments just as happens in the United States of America. 
It should be possible to have a discussion on the merits and the pros and cons of instances in which one judge in 2 different cases or 2 judges in the same case come to completely different opinions and even to go into the proposition of whether there is some reason why judges come to different opinions. I would very strongly ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who represents the Attorney-General in this chamber, to raise with the AttorneyGeneral the problem that has arisen in South Australia and which may arise in other States and ensure that lawyers, in trying to protect fee for service private enterprise law- in the way that doctors try to protect fee for service private medicine- do not prevent legal aid from being given to litigants. 
I shall take only a few minutes to make some important points. I do not very often speak on repatriation matters, even though in a sense I owe my presence in this House to my work in repatriation. It is an involved story. Some vital votes in my preselection ballot depended on the fact that I was able to show that a certain person suffering from Parkinsonism was able to claim repatriation benefits because at one stage some 20 years earlier he had had a pyrexia of unknown origin whilst serving in the forces. I refer to the general question of the benefit of the doubt that is given, or supposed to be given, to ex-servicemen who ' apply for the acceptance of conditions arising from their service. It is extremely difficult these days to clearly relate a condition with which an ex-serviceman is suffering to his original war service unless there is a continuing story. In other words,, if a person obviously has been treated for the past 30 years for some condition which has just progressed, and some new condition has developed obviously from the previous condition, it is not very difficult to relate that to war service. Otherwise it is very difficult to do so. 
Cancer is one of the conditions that has caused a lot of problems. Whilst on the one hand it is impossible for the ex-serviceman to prove that a malignant condition is due to his war service, it is obviously also impossible, as we do not know the cause of most malignant conditions, to show that the malignant condition is not due to war service. It is a continuous game of ping pong. In a sense I am lucky to be a medical practitioner as well as a member of Parliament because when my constituents complain about not getting certain benefits for disabilities which they claim are related to their war service, I can get them to have their medical records sent to me once their appeals have reached a certain stage. I am able to go through the medical records as a sort of doctor-detective and try to prove a relationship between their original condition and their present condition. I think the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  is in the same sort of position. It is extremely helpful to do this. We also help other honourable members on our side of the House. But it is difficult for exservicemen who do not live in our electorates, or who may even have the misfortune to live in the electorate of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  and who are unable to get this sort of assistance. 
I think the most important benefit that has been introduced by this Government from that point of view springs from the decision that bodies like appeal tribunals will now give reasons for the rejection of claims. Under procedure that prevailed until now the exserviceman was told only that the board, the tribunal or the Department had found that a particular condition was not related to war service. This gave the person no real assistance in preparing an appeal because he did not know on what basis the condition was rejected. As I pointed out a minute ago, those of us who are medical practitioners and members of Parliament are able to have a look at the medical file after receiving an authorisation from the constituent that we are acting as his medical adviser, and see the reason for rejection given in that file. We have a terrific advantage because we are able to argue on the reasons. But it is obviously completely unfair for the average ex-serviceman who does not have this advantage. I congratulate the Government on accepting the recommendations of the appropriate Caucus committee to give ex-servicemen the reasons for the rejection of claims. This will now make it possible for them to argue on a rational and reasonable basis for eligibility for certain benefits. 
I also congratulate the Government on accepting, on the general basis of giving ex-servicemen the benefit of the doubt, the responsibility for all medical conditions of ex-servicemen who at some stage were prisoners of war. I think it has been justifiably argued that a person who was a prisoner of war, especially for any lengthy period, in nearly every case was in a very depressed physical and psychological condition during this period and that obviously this must have affected his general health, which in turn must have affected his ability to withstand and deal with what in other cases would have been a normal reaction to a potential disease. I congratulate the Government on the amendments it has introduced in this legislation and hope it will continue to carry on in the same fashion. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
I thank the House. Those people made submissions and there was obviously opportunity for everybody to make submissions. If one looks at the names of the organisations and people who did make submissions, they cover a very wide spectrum. 
I agree with you. On the final report we ought to be able to hear further submissions. I take it that people will have another opportunity to appear before the Senate committee, and preferably if there had been a committee here - 
I agree; I have expressed my views on that. I should like to give some factual information which may be disjointed but is nonetheless important. Again, I have asked for permission from the honourable member for Moreton to incorporate in Hansard Table 6 and Table 7 appearing at pages 1 1 1 and 1 12 of volume 3 of the report on Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia. Table 6 shows in part that the percentage of total payments for third party claims in the State of New South Wales, for example, which had not been paid within one year was 88.5 per cent, within two years 57.4 per cent, and even within five years 28.7 per cent. The percentage of the total number of claims as distinct from the amount of money involved is still very depressing. In Victoria 3 years after the accidents 22.2 per cent of third party claims had not been settled, after two years 40 per cent and after one year 66.3 per cent. I think they are important points and are among the reasons why this sort of legislation will be of benefit. I ask for leave to incorporate those two tables in Hansard. 
-It is interesting to note the difference between the members of the Opposition on this legislation. The honourable members for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  and Moreton  (Mr Killen)  are basically opposed to this type of legislation. They oppose the Bill. The arguments they use are only peripheral arguments. They are basically opposed to the whole concept. The honourable member for Moreton is obviously concerned about questions of injury only when somebody is at fault and can be sued. He is not the slightest bit concerned about a crippled or injured person who cannot sue somebody. Even if the injured person can sue somebody the honourable member is probably concerned about him only if the person he wishes to sue is covered by insurance. He has the typical attitude of a lawyer- and a small time lawyer at that. 
The honourable member for Chisholm made one of his usual sanctimonious speeches. It is a great pity that he was not in the chamber when the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  spoke. I am quite sure I could not persuade him about the significance of the Bill, but the honourable member for Wentworth made an excellent speech on the Bill. I would like to repeat some of the points he made. He said that much of the time of the courts is spent on the question of fault. He felt that this was completely wrong. He quoted  Mr Justice  Windeyer's comment that the whole system of negligence is outdated. This is in complete opposition to the argument that the Neanderthal member for Chisholm put up in his sanctimonious proposition that somebody always has to be at fault. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Prospect might withdraw his description of the honourable member for Chisholm. 
-What is that? 
In his ideas he may be a few thousand years ahead of the time of the Neanderthal man but not much closer to this century. 
-I suppose it would be fair to summarise the proposition of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in this way: Instead of putting money into social security we should put it into the companies and big businesses that he supports and that he runs and that the Opposition Parties have always supported. Basically what he is saying is that it is better to be rich and healthy than to be poor and sick. I think that is a fair summary of his position and it is the usual Liberal-Country Party philosophy of favouritism for the few and sacrifice for the many so that the people who are poor and the people who are sick should not get anything but what they should do is be sorry that they did not live somewhere else, did not have different parents, did not put money away for savings. According to him the main aim of the Australian population is to save money. 
I wish to deal with a couple of points in relation to the estimates of the departments we are discussing tonight. Firstly, on the question of nursing homes, it has been pointed out before in this debate that nursing home benefits are being increased at a very fast rate, that since 1 August of this year there has been an increase in Government expenditure on nursing home benefits of 67 per cent and a total of $ 161m will be provided to them this year. We are reaching a ridiculous position. I think it was brought about to a large extent by panic on the part of the LiberalCountry Party Government in the last couple of years when it was in office. The proposition has now been accepted by the general community that the Government has committed itself to increasing bed day subsidies automatically every time costs in nursing homes are increased in any State. 
It is important to emphasise again that a commitment in this form has never been made, that neither our Government nor the previous Government has ever promised to meet the full cost of nursing home services. No responsible government could ever make such a commitment, especially as it has no control over the standards of the nursing homes which are controlled by the States. The community as a whole has to look at the proposition which is being pushed. I think it is fair to say- I admit it- that when we were in Opposition we were pushing on the previous Government and now that the other Parties are in Opposition they are pushing on us the proposition that somehow or other every person over a certain age is entitled to be kept in a nursing home of very high standard for the rest or his or her life. That is a proposition that has to be looked at. It is a proposition that I do not accept without some further discussion. But as soon as nursing home charges increase beyond a certain point where the pensioner, for example, is not left with $4 or some other amount out of his pension after having paid for nursing home accommodation, there is an immediate outcry by the public relations organisations behind the nursing home industry that nursing homes will have to put people into the street. There is general acceptance apparently in the communityit is certainly pushed by honourable members opposite- that the Government has this responsibility and duty to make up the payment, not only in cases where the rest of the family of the pensioner is poor but in all cases in the community. 
The next point I should like to raise is the amount of money that we are putting into capital expenditure in certain of our projects. I think that it is perfectly reasonable, and all of us would agree, that for example in nursing homes run by charitable institutions, aged persons homes, aged persons hostels, etc., the tabs for the recurrent costs should be picked up by the Government. But about the question whether capital costs should be provided without any sort of limit, I have some doubts. I have question No. 1 108 on notice on this matter to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  but I have taken out some figures from the last annual report Under the Aged Persons Homes Act religious institutions have received $93.5m subsidy in capital expenditure and about $10m this year. Under the Aged Persons Hostels Act religious institutions have received $ 13.5m in the last 2 years. I do not accept the proposition that taxpayers' money should be paid to religious institutions for the purpose of capital gain. I accept the proposition both in the case of education and in the case of nursing home services, etc., that the Government has a responsibility, if religious or charitable institutions are prepared to run these homes, to pay their recurrent costs. I should like to hear some persuasive argument that taxpayers' money should necessarily be given to an  institution which can next year or the year after or in 10 years time sell that building or institution. 
As the Minister said, no one argues that on the question of private hospitals. Finally, I wish to make 2 points in relation to the the Department of Health. Firstly, I should like to congratulate the Minister, quite apart from the general work that he has done, for his work in setting up the Hospitals and Health Services Commission under  Dr Sax  and the work it has done to try to bring a bit of rationalisation to hospital and health care in Australia. Honourable members who have listened to me on this subject before will know that I am not satisfied with the way things are going at present. I am not even satisfied with all the proposals the Government is putting forward. I think we have to encourage as much variety as possible to give the consumer choice, and we are doing that to some extent. Provision for community health program services increased from nothing under the previous Government to $9.9m last year and $34.6m this year. There is an attempt to bring about some new kinds of services so that we can see what in fact is preferred by the consumers. The only way we can decide that is to offer them the alternative. I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  would agree with me that just as we say that people should choose their country by voting with their feet, they should be entitled in this area to vote with their feet and should also be entitled to vote, in effect, with their beliefs in deciding what kind of health care delivery services they prefer. 
On the question of the $28m which has been made available to three of the States for the construction of public hospitals, I do not have time in this debate to go into the whole matter. I should like specifically to mention Westmead. I have asked for permission from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  to incorporate in Hansard an editorial in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 29 October- yesterday- entitled 'Westmead wrangle '. I ask leave to incorporate it in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  -Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Six years ago the State Government announced it would build a major hospital at Westmead in Sydney's western suburbs. At the end of next month  Sir Robert  Askin will formally inaugurate work on the project. If all goes well, the first patients will be admitted during 1 978. In other words, at least 10 years will have elapsed since the announcement of the project, said then and since to hold top priority in the State's hospitals program, and the completion of that project's first stage. It is that delay which is at the root of the latest confrontation between the New South Wales and Commonwealth Governments. 
It is important to note the State Government's track record at Westmead now that it has become the latest episode of a wider dispute between the Commonwealth and the four non-Labor States. The issue, federalism versus centralism, has become a familiar one this year; its most recent manifestation was  Sir Charles  Cutler's head-on collision with  Mr Jones  on interim roads grants. The fact that 3,500 men then stood to lose their jobs could only have obscured, in the public mind, whatever justification the State might have been able to offer as part of its stand on the protection of States' rights. The Westmead affair may produce the same effect. How many lives might be saved, how much suffering might be prevented, if decent hospital facilities existed in the western suburbs? The community will hardly accept as an excuse for delay that Canberra and New South Wales are engaged in another demarcation dispute. 
For his part,  Mr Whitlam-  ignoring his experts' advicehas threatened to build his own hospitals at Westmead and Campbelltown. That is the depth to which Federal-New South Wales relations have sunk; hospital construction has become a political war-game which, if taken to its illogical conclusion, would mean ludicrous duplication.  Mr Whitlam  may be trying merely to get the State Government moving on building Westmead and planning Campbelltown hospitals. It is to be hoped he succeeds. The State Government, while upholding an important principle, must realise that it will forfeit public support if it is seen to be pleading for more cash from Canberra and, at the same time, confessing itself unable to spend a $4m grant for building Westmead. It will be vulnerable to the allegation, which will certainly be made- that the people of New South Wales- roadworkers one week, the sick the next- are being used by the State Government as pawns in a campaign to blacken the Commonwealth Government's image. 
I should like to quote the final sentences. After referring to the fact that  Mr Whitlam  had threatened to go ahead and build a hospital at Westmead the editorial reads: 

 Mr Whitlam may be trying merely to get the State Government moving on building Westmead and planning Campbelltown hospitals. It is to be hoped he succeeds. The State Government, while upholding an important principle, must realise that it will forfeit public support if it is seen to be pleading for more cash from Canberra and, at the same time, confessing itself unable to spend a $4m grant for building Westmead. 
That was last year. The editorial continues:  
It will be vulnerable to the allegation, which will certainly be made, that the people of New South Wales- roadworkers one week, the sick the next- are being used by the State Government as pawns in a campaign to blacken the Commonwealth's image. 
I think it is a very important point to be raised. There has to be agreement between the States and the Commonwealth on the question of where the hospitals are situated. It is terribly important for the people I represent in this place that a hospital is built in the very near future at Westmead. 
I should like to address my remarks to the Department of Labor and Immigration but specifically to one relatively small aspect of immigration into Australia. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is aware of the question I am going to raise and basically it is this. I am concerned about a fairly large number of people who live in my electorate. I have met quite a lot of them and I have attended some of their functions. I think that some injustice is at present taking place. I am talking about a group of people called Assyrians. There is an organisation called the Australian-Assyrian Association or the Assyrian-Australian Association in the suburb of Fairfield and there are up to 2,000 or more of these people in this country. The Assyrians come from the State of Iraq and they are Christians. I think there is some ethnic difference between the Assyrians and the rest of the Iraqi population in addition to their religious differences, Iraq being a Muslim country and, as I said earlier, the Assyrians are Christians. 
It is impossible to leave Iraq without permission from the Iraqi Government. Iraq has a very dictatorial regime at the present time and it apparently carries out discriminatory practices against its Assyrian minority as it does against the Kurds. It is possible for the Assyrians from Iraq to obtain a passport which is valid for what are called Arab countries. 
This concerns immigration. I understand from one of the passports that the countries for which the passport is valid are the United Arab Republic, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Libya, Tunisia, Morocco, 
Sudan and Turkey. What happens is that these people go to Lebanon. The ones who have relatives in Australia have been sponsored by their Australian relatives and they are then interviewed by our officers in Lebanon. Suddenly, about one year ago, it was decided by the Australian Government in its wisdom- or lack of wisdom- that these people could not be considered for immigration into Australia unless they had a passport which was stamped showing Australia as one of the countries for which it was valid. Secondly, they had to have a police reference from the Iraqi authorities and, thirdly, in the case of males they had to show that they had served their compulsory military service in the Iraqi army. The requirements were impossible for many of them because they were in fact refugees from the Iraqi regime. It was therefore impossible for them to obtain either a passport marked as being valid for Australia or to get a police reference. 
I approached the previous Minister for Immigration and the present Minister for the purpose of obtaining a concession and discussing the cases on their merits. Shortly I will read a letter. I think to a large extent that is acceptable, as far as I am concerned, and I hope it is acceptable as far as the relatives of the Assyrian population in Australia are concerned. One of the points that was raised in discussion with the Department was that Australia could not accept people without valid travel documents. If we are to allow refugees into this country then, almost by definition, many of them will not have valid travel documents. Secondly, Australia does not like to allow people into the country without a clearance from the police force of their country of origin. I think under certain conditions I could accept that, but in this particular case people were worried that terrorists from the Middle East would enter Australia. I think that is completely impractical. The Iraqi Government has never shown any opposition to terrorism in the Middle East, and in fact if you had a police reference from the Iraqi Government the chances of you being a terrorist would be much greater than if you did not have that police reference. So I think it is important to remember that, and not to insist on formalities which we normally insist on. 
I do not know exactly what happens when we let people in from Yugoslavia or Spain or the Soviet Union. Do we insist on police clearances from those countries? Do we accept the proposition of the police forces of those totalitarian regimes that these people are suitable for immigration into Australia or do we use other methods? I appeal to the Minister to use his common sense, and if there is one thing that he has it is certainly common sense, having been involved in Labor Party politics and trade union politics for quite a number of years. I wish to read into the record the letter I received last week from the Minister for Labor and Immigation. It is addressed to me at Parliament House and reads: 
I refer to your representations regarding Iraqi citizens of Assyrian extraction wishing to come to Australia but who cannot satisfy the usual requirements for migration. 
I shall be writing to you separately regarding each of these cases but the purpose of this letter is to outline to you arrangements which, with the support of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have decided upon. 
One of the principal obstacles has been the fact that the Iraqi Government has not been prepared to validate would be migrants' passports for travel to Australia. However, I am pleased to say that it will now be possible for my Department to issue affidavits in lieu of passports, where circumstances warrant this action, to enable the migration of spouses, dependent children and dependent parents of Australian residents to come here. The same facilities will be available to fiances and fiancees. 
This will not, I know, resolve the problem of nondependent or more distant relatives and I am canvassing possible solutions. Discussions which my officers have had with representatives of the Australian Council of Churches and the Assyrian-Australian Association suggest that some at least may fall within the mandate of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. Each of these bodies has agreed to explore the possibilities. 
I am personally sympathetic to the problems faced by these people and to the understandable wish of their relatives to be reunited with them in Australia. You have my assurance that I shall do everything that circumstances permit to bring this about. 
Yours sincerely 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister say what was the actual or estimated income from oil exports of the following countries: (a) Saudi Arabia, (b) Iran, (c) Iraq, (d) Kuwait, (e) Libya, (0 Qatar, (g) United Arab Emirates and (h) Venezuela during (i) 1971, (ii) 1972 and (iii) 1973 and what is the estimated income for 1974. 
Can the Minister also say what sum each of those countries has contributed to the following United Nations voluntary funds: (a) U.N. Children's Fund (UNICEF), (b) U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, (c) U.N. Capital Development Fund, (d) U.N. Development Program, (e) 
U.N. Organisation for Industrial Development, (f) U.N. Trust Fund to help the Victims of Apartheid, (g) U.N. Education and Training Program for South Africa, (h) U.N. Fund for Namibia, (i) World Health Organisation and (j) the World Food Program during each of the last three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What proportion of premiums collected under workers' compensation payments in each State and Territory was paid out in (a) medical costs, (b) hospital costs, (c) legal costs, (d) administrative costs and (e) payments to claimants in each of the last 3 years for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What sum was paid by employers in premiums under the workers' compensation Acts in each State and Territory in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What were the total premiums paid by motor vehicle owners under third party insurance in each State and Territory during each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What was the minimum workers' compensation benefit payable under the Workers' Compensation Acts of the States and Territories on 30 June 1 974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
How many claims under third party motor vehicle insurance had not been settled by the two main insurance companies handling third party insurance in each State and Territory as at 30 June 1974. 
What percentage of these claims arose from accidents which had occurred more than (a) 6 months, (b) 12 months, (c) 2 years, (d) 3 years and (e) 5 years earlier. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
How many claims under workers' compensation Acts had been pending for more than (a) 2 weeks, (b) 4 weeks, (c) 12 weeks, (d) 26 weeks and (e) 52 weeks in each State and Territory as at 30 June 1974. 
How many claims for workers' compensation were rejected in each State and Territory during each of the last 3 years for which figures are available. 
How many claims for workers' compensation required legal action in each State and Territory in each of the last 3 years. 
How many of these were settled (a) in court and (b) out of court. 
asked the Minister for services and Property, upon notice: 
What was the proportion of formal votes cast for candidates of (a) the Australian Labor Party; (b) the Liberal Party of Australia; and (c) the Australian Country Party- (i) at polling booths within the electors' subdivision; (ii) by absentee votes; and (iii) by postal votes in each State and Territory at the election for the House of Representatives held on 18 May 1974. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the estimated (a) increase or (b) decrease in civilian employment in each month since January 1971. 
What has been the seasonally adjusted annual rate for each quarter since the March 1 970 quarter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What proportion of Australian life office assets was represented by housing (dwelling) mortgages (a) at the latest date for which figures are available, (b) 1 year previously, (c) 2 years previously, (d) 3 years previously and (e) 5 years previously. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was public authority expenditure as a percentage of gross national product on (a) cash benefits for persons and (b) education (i) as an average for 1968-69 to 1971-72 and (ii) in 1973-74. 

 Mx Crean- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public authority expenditure on cash benefits to persons represented 5.5 per cent of gross domestic product, on average, over the period 1968-69 to 1971-72 and 6.4 per cent in 1973-74. 
Public authority spending on education represented 3.9 per cent of gross domestic product, on average, over the period 1968-69 to 197 1-72 and 4.7 per cent in 1973-74. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he any details of the operation of special accounts by registered medical and hospital benefit organisations which indicate that all or any organisations have changed their policy in relation to special account entries which has had the effect of significantly increasing Australian Government liability for benefits and thereby reducing fund liability. 
If so, will he provide details of these trends and whether the trends indicate that the system is being abused. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the Australian Government expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product on (a) cash benefit for persons and (b) education (i) as an average during the period 1968-69 to 1971-72 and (ii) in 1973-74. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment who is representing the Minister for Health. The Minister is no doubt aware that what is called passive protection against tetanus in individuals previously sensitised by equine tetanus anti toxin which is derived from horse serum has been a major problem because of the possibility of severe reactions. Also the Minister is no doubt aware that the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories has now developed the manufacture of a tetanus immunoglobulin of human origin. I ask the Minister Is it fact that this preparation is virtually reaction-free making preliminary screening tests unnecessary and that it persists in the circulation for very much longer? As the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories does not employ many medical detailers- that is, salesmen- will the Government ensure that this information is drawn to the attention of every medical practitioner in Australia, together with the information that this preparation is provided free of charge from the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Acts administered by him allow for Government contributions for (a) capital expenditure and (b) current expenditure to (i) religious and (ii) charitable organisations. 
What are the details, including the names of recipient organisations, of these contributions for each of the last 3 years. 
-I should like to take a few minutes of the time of the House to refer to an article which appeared in the financial pages of the Sydney 'Sun' of Thursday, 10 October, 1974. It is headed: 'MP's tax perks are the lurk '. It begins: 
How would you like $6,000 a year in expenses- not accountable to the tax commissioner? 
We all know that in fact we do not receive $6,000 a year in expenses. The article continues: 
Toss in a free car - 
We all know that we do not get a free car-  free telephone - 
We do not get a free telephone- 
. and at least one overseas trip a year first class for nothing. 
That, too, is not true. Further on, the article states: 
There are quite a few more refinements on the system. Like the stamp allowance which is not used if all a member's letters come from Parliament House, Canberra. 
The implication is that if we post letters from Parliament House, Canberra, somebody else pays for the stamps. There is reference to a statutory expense allowance of $6,000, which, of course, is not $6,000 but, if I remember correctly, $4,100. 
This article was written by Ralph Wragg, who is the Financial Editor of the Sydney 'Sun'. It is interesting to note, though not reported in the Sydney 'Sun', that one month later, as reported in other Sydney newspapers, certain things were said in a report into insider trading on the Stock Exchange in Sydney concerning Endurance Mining Corporation NL. The report stated that this case of insider trading was the largest example of such trading ever investigated in Australia. The report tabled in the New South Wales Parliament strongly criticised the role of the Press in promoting Endurance's shares, which rose from a little more than $1 in December 1968to$10.60 in February 1969 and then fell back to about $2 in June 1969. That was all before the Labor Government allegedly depressed the stock market. The report said that 'bullish' articles by the then financial editor of the 'Daily Mirror',  Mr Cliff  Riggs, on Endurance and the Attunga Mining Corporation Pty Ltd, which Endurance took over, contributed substantially to the exposure of the stock to the public. It also criticised an article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. It went on to refer to the following: 
The report noted that  Mr R.  Wragg, Financial Editor of the 'Sun', was allotted shares in Endurance by Clinton and Co., sharebrokers  on December 4 1968, which were sold shortly afterwards for a net profit of $2,700. 
The sum of $2,700 was made by  Mr Wragg,  the Financial Editor of the 'Sun ', out of shares which were pushed by the newspapers, as reported in this case. Clinton and Co., sharebrokers, gave him enough shares to enable him to make $2,700. One would think that was pretty decent of Clinton until one read further on in the report that Andrew Clinton, stockbroker of Sydney, made $502,437.40 out of the same push. Another stockbroker or a number of stockbrokers made $568,000 each. A person called Peter Charles Murray made $402,000. Lawrence Charles O'Neill made $202,000. Leonard Robert Hall, a geologist, and Richard Edward Relph made $549,000. The public was taken down for a total of $5m. Clinton and Co., stockbrokers, and other stockbrokers made $502,000 plus. Wragg prostituted his job for just $2,700. 
There was no criticism of Wragg in the newspapers, but Wragg is the same person who was prepared to tell absolute lies about members of this House and about the benefits we get but who was not prepared to admit that that was the case even when it was pointed out to him that he was telling untruths. It is typical of the behaviour of the Sydney 'Sun' and the way in which it denigrates mainly the Australian Labor Party but Parliament and parliamentarians in general that it employs a person such as Ralph Wragg who has been exposed by the State Government, following an investigation by it, to denigrate parliamentarians in this House. I draw the attention of honourable members to the conduct of this person. I hope that the newspapers, which do so much to denigrate the members of this House, as we heard earlier today from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  will take some note of the fact that if they are to have the privilege of running a newspaper they have to make every attempt possible to make sure that the stories they publish are true stories. It would not have been difficult for Wragg to check the facts. It is a matter of public record what benefits we get for being parliamentarians, what our salaries are and what our allowances are. He obviously did not check. He did not correct the statements that he made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the July 1974 issue of Channel, the official journal of the ABC Staff Association, that ABC Commissioner Dorothy Edwards, speaking to This Day Tonight staff, claimed it was just as well they had not shown the Antonioni film on China as the ABC's representative in Peking, Paul Raffaele, could have been killed. 
Is the Minister able to say whether Commissioner Edwards made this statement. 
If she did make the statement, is the Minister also able to say what evidence she had for making it. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What was the result in each sub-division in the State of New South Wales in the election for the House of Representatives held on 18 May 1974. 
-Dealing firstly with the comments of the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  I have not discussed this matter with the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  but the honourable member made two or three points dealing with stomal appliances and whether or not they would be distributed to patients who have been operated on in private hospitals. There is no restriction on that basis. The appliances will be distributed via hospitals and stoma associations; in other words, organisations to which people who have got stomata can belong and should belong. There will no doubt be other methods of distribution of the appliances. On the question of stomal therapists I am surprised at the attitude of the honourable member for Murray. The Opposition is usually terribly keen to keep everything for the State governments, yet the honourable member wants to bring Commonwealth stomal therapists into State hospitals. It is an interesting proposition. Finally, I am surprised at his proposition that there should be some doubt about the question of renal dialysis equipment because of its life-prolonging aspects and its cost. I do not want to make political capital out of this. I realise that there is a big question involved in how long people should be kept on a renal dialysis machine, but surely that decision has to be made by the medical practitioner who is looking after the patient and it should not be decided on the basis of the cost involved. 
I have risen tonight because of the speech made by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He made a ridiculous speech. He talked about anarchy and socialism and fanaticism when we are dealing with realtively minor alterations to the National Health Act. 
I find that it is a great pity that the honourable member for Hotham and, for that matter, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden ), who to me in any case are much more pleasant people than many of those on the other side, fail because they do not prepare their briefs. They do not read the Bills. This is the case with the honourable member for Hotham when he is dealing with the subject of national health, the honourable member for Moreton when he is dealing with education and the Leader of the Opposition when he is dealing with the economy. I think that it is depressing that leading members of this House make it quite obvious that they do not know what the propositions are that are being discussed. I come specifically to the proposition dealt with by the honourable member for Hotham, that in some way there will be some sort of dictatorial interference with the hospital and medical funds which are, to use his words, at present highly democratic organisations. Let us look at what kind of organisations they are. The honourable member for Hotham, in reply to one of my interjections- it was my final interjection before Mr Speaker took action against mereferred to one of the major funds in New South Wales being under Labor Party control. I would certainly like him to tell me privately what fund this is. 
I would like to run quickly through a list of the major funds and point out how they are run. Let me deal first with the Medical Benefits Fund which claims to have 2.5 million contributors and dependants. There is no provision for the election of the contributors' representatives to the governing council of the Fund. In fact, although the Fund receives about $60m to $70m in contributions from its members, the members are not entitled to vote for the council. Only medical members have a vote. Clause 7 of the articles of association of the MBF reads: 
Medical members of the association shall be elected by the Council or by a committee appointed by the Council with power in that behalf. 
In other words, not even every medical practitioner is a medical member of this Fund. I certainly never was. A person has to be a medical practitioner, a contributor to the Fund and then be selected by the present council of the Fund to become a medical member. One is then entitled to vote to elect that council. It is certainly an extremely undemocratic way of doing things. There has never been an opposed election. This is not surprising since the people who are elected decide who will vote for them. 
The Medical Benefits Fund often denies that it is run by the Australian Medical Association for the Australian Medical Association. But let us look at this claim. The Fund was formed by 17 persons who, to use the wording of the MBF, were 'desirous of being formed into a company'. That is a quote from their Articles of Association. Out of the 1 7 people, eight were described as surgeons, seven as medical practitioners and two as physicians. Their signatures were witnessed by officers of the then British Medical Association and fourteen of them have been BMA or AMA State Presidents. The net effect of this control by the AMA is the restriction of benefits to services rendered by medical practitioners. Even though the articles of association show quite clearly that there was never any intention to allow contributors any say, their claim now is that there is no common role for elections. That in itself is a breach of article 21 of the Fund's articles of association. The members of the council of the Medical Benefits Fund include 12 active medical practitioners plus a consultant for the Development Finance Corporation Ltd and former  deputy  general manager of the Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd, a Country Party member of the Legislative Council in New South Wales and director of country newspapers and television, another board member of Development Finance Corporation Ltd and director of 8 companies including Australian Fixed Trusts, Queensland division, Queensland Oil Refineries, the National Bank of Australasia, City Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd, Mutual Acceptance Ltd and a Tasmanian Liberal ex-member of the House of Assembly. They are the people who claim to be representing the Medical Benefits Fund contributors and controlling the policy and huge reserves of that Fund. They claim to be representative of their contributors and yet the contributors have no say whatsoever. 
Let us look at the position of some of the other funds. The Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria is slightly better because it has 8 contributor representatives. But they are vastly outnumbered by the appointed representativies of other sorts of organisations. Then, we have the Medical and Hospital Association of South Australia. It operates on the basis of 100 $2 shares. The people who have those shares elect the council of the fund. The honourable member for Hotham tells us that those funds are mutual benefit organisations. But only those people who hold those shares are able to vote in the election of the council. In 1972-73, which is the last information I have, the council consisted of  Mr I.  McLachlin who was the  chairman  and  president  of the Liberal Party of South Australia and director of Colonial Mutual Life Association Society Ltd;  Sir Clarence  Rieger, who was  president  of the Australian Blue Cross Association, former  president  of the British Medical Association, former federal  president  of the Australian Medical Association;  Mr P.  Parsons, director of Television Broadcasters Ltd;  Mr A.  Brookman, who is the son of the late Honourable Norman Brookman, Liberal-Country Party member of State Parliament and brother of another Liberal-Country Party member and the  chairman  of the South Australian Seed Growers Co-operative Ltd and  Sir Roland  Jacobs, former  chairman  of the South Australian Brewing Co., Ltd and the present  chairman  of Executor Trustee and Agency Co. of South Australian Ltd. Then there is a barrister and a retired gentleman on the council. I am sure that they are a pretty representative crowd of the average contributor to that South Australian fund. 
I will not speak much longer because our Whip is making noises behind me. However. I feel very strongly that when members of Parliament such as the honourable member for Hotham talk about the contributors being disadvantaged by the insertion into the legislation of a clause which enables a judge of the Industrial Court of Australia to appoint a judicial person to look after the funds, such honourable members are being rather hypocritical. Surely there is a complete and absolute lack of democracy in those funds. No attempt is made to establish within the funds what the view of the membership may be on the question of whether they should co-operate with the Australian Government. Surely one would expect if anybody was representing the contributors that there would be some discussion in those funds as to whether they would co-operate with the Australian Government. I certainly hope that as the time for reply from the funds has not closed yet, some of them at least will co-operate. 
It has been pointed out to me that my 5 minutes has taken nearly as long as the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  took for his 5 minutes last night. 1 think it is a ridiculous proposition that is being peddled by the honourable member for Hotham that somehow or other there is an attempt by the Government to be dictatorial. To state that there will be interference with the democratically run medical funds is completely untrue. Finally, when the honourable member for Hotham released what he called the Liberal Party's policy on the National Health Insurance Bill, he said that anybody who went to work for the proposed National Health Insurance Commission could, in years to come, be sacked if there was a return of the Liberal and Country Parties to government. All I am prepared to say is this: I am sure that when election time comes along and this National Health Insurance Commission is established the Liberal and Country Parties, if they were returned to office, would be just the same as any other political party which gained office in this country. They would cave in and say that they would guarantee the jobs of these people for ever and ever. I will be interested to see what the Liberal Party's policy is when an election comes along next time and when the National Health Insurance Commission is established. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement arising out of something which was said during the adjournment debate on 25 November 1974. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article by  Mr E.J.  Donath, Lecturer in Economic Geography, in the 'Age' of 18November 1974. 
If so, does  Mr Donath  claim that wheatgrowers' income is likely to be $l,000m in 1974-75; i.e., 170 per cent more than in 1972-73. 
If so, is this estimate correct; if not, what is the real position. 
Does  Mr Donath  also claim that the gross value of all crops grown in Australia in 1 974-75 is estimated at $2, 850m; i.e., 80 per cent more than in 1 972-73. 
) If so, is this estimate correct, if not, what is the real position. 
Does he also claim that potato growers will more than double their 1972-73 income. 
If so, is this estimate correct; if not, what is the real position. 
I should like to take a couple of minutes to reply to the synthetic anger of the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  expressed by him on behalf of the people who put up the money for Liberal Party election propaganda - 
-The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd and similar organisations. I should like to deal with 2 points specifically. Firstly, the reason why provisions related to handicapped children and sufferers of kidney disease were included in the same Bill. These matters, of course, were originally contained in the National Health Act and the Bill sought to amend that Act. At one stage the Act was administered by the honourable member for Barker, who has a very short memory not only on this matter but also on others. More importantly, I think I should reply to the honourable member's statement accusing us of daylight robbery by trying to transfer funds from reserves between hospitals and medical funds. May I put to him-I was going to say as a reasonable person, but I certainly have not found him to be so- as an almost reasonable person and to other members of the Opposition what is happening at present in New South Wales. The Medical Benefits Fund is claiming the alleged arrears for the hospital fund contributions. For example, some people have paid both medical fund contributions and hospital fund contributions to 28 February. Hospital fund contributions have been raised retrospectively to 1 August last year by the Medical Benefits Fund. The Medical Benefits Fund then says to these people: 'You are financial not to 28 
February, but let us say until 1 January.' The honourable member will agree with me that as the only charges that had been increased were the hospital fund charges and not the medical fund charges, these people should still be covered by the medical fund for the original time and for the hospital fund for the shorter time. But the funds are not doing that. They are adding up the contributions, as they always do, and are making the period shorter for both the medical fund and the hospital fund even though they have not increased the charges for one of the funds. I think the proposition is ridiculous. The funds have been completely dishonest in the way in which they have stood over people, requiring them to pay extra contributions and to meet arrears. As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has pointed out in the House, a court case is pending- I understand that it is listed for 14 February, later this week- in which the validity and the power of the HCF and the MBF in New South Wales to charge and collect not only higher contributions but also arrears following increases in contributions which are backdated will be challenged. I appeal to the people of New South Wales who belong to these funds to wait for the outcome of this court case and not to be conned by the funds into paying large sums in arrears. I will not participate further in the debate because I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is due in a short time to make an important statement. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What will be the expected cost to the Government under the Secondary Schools Science Program for the provision of science accommodation for the following New South Wales schools during the period May 1973 to 30 June 1975: 
Scots College, Bellevue Hill; 
Ascham School, Edgecliff; 
The King's School, Parramatta; 
Kambala Church of England School, Rose Bay; and 
Sacred Heart Convent, Rose Bay. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total value of housing mortgage loans granted by Australian life offices as at 30 June in each of the years from 1969 to 1974 inclusive. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What will be the expected cost to the Government under the Secondary Schools Libraries Program for library accommodation for the following schools during the period May 1973 to 31 December 1974: 
St Joseph 's College, Hunters Hill, N.S. W.; 
Moriah War Memorial College, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.; 
Ascham School, Edgecliff, N.S.W.; 
) Presbyterian Ladies College, Pymble, N.S.W.; 
Kambala Church of England School, Rose Bay, N.S.W.; and 
Timbertop School, Mansfield, Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many high schools have been supplied with closed circuit television equipment. 
How many of these schools are known to be using the equipment. 
Does his Department check on the usefulness of equipment supplied. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps are taken to ensure that libraries built with money supplied under the secondary schools libraries program are used for that purpose. 
Has his attention been drawn to an allegation that a library built at Simon Stock High School, Pendle Hill, New South Wales, is being used for living accommodation by teaching brothers at this school. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the recent allocation by the Grants Commission to local government areas in (a) Australia amounted to $2.92 per head of population in city areas and $6.88 per head in rural areas and (b) New South Wales amounted to $2.87 a head in city areas and $7.28 a head in rural areas. 
) If so, what is the justification for this. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What was the value of (a) imports from and (b) exports to South Africa in each of the last 5 years. 
What is the estimated value in each case for 1974-75. 
-Unlike the previous  speaker,  the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  I do not believe in sin, original or otherwise, and I certainly do not think it is the function of this legislature to define and punish sinners. I wish to make only one other point in reply to the Minister. He made a point about somebody being in the armed forces overseas for a year, I think at Butterworth, being a ground for divorce. He said that he had not read all the clauses of the Bill. Apparently he read only the ones which were underlined for him by people who have been pushing against the legislation. I point out to him that clause 48 (3), which deals with dissolution of marriage, states: 
A degree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the Court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
Surely the fact that a person had been sent to Butterworth by the Royal Australian Air Force would bring such a marriage within the ambit of that clause. 
My view of the Bill is lukewarm. I am quite happy with the grounds for divorce in the present Act plus consent or the proposed single ground plus consent. I agree with the amendment proposed by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  I can see some of the disabilities that were pointed out by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  if we abolish some of the grounds for divorce. I would have no objection to including other grounds for divorce, apart from what I agree with him is the potentially artificial ground of one year's separation. I cannot get excited about this aspect of no-fault divorce. As the Minister for Education and I think some of the previous speakers pointed out, if people want to bring fault into it obviously they can do so. If people are upset because society or many members of society do not behave in the fashion which the Festival of Light would like us to believe is the norm for society then I do not think it hurts if society knows that the Festival of Light does not represent typical society. 
I would like in passing to refer to a point made yesterday by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  which he considered to be important. The honourable member felt that he clinched his case when he claimed that 80 per cent of Pentridge inmates- that is a gaol, I take it, in Melbourne- came from broken homes. I would like to reply to that in the following way. It is probably not true but in any case I would say that most of their parents were not divorced but were living under the tensions existing in house holds where incompatible people had to live together so as to make happy some selfappointed interpreters of God 's will. 
I feel that this is basically an argument between those who have little faith in their and other people's morality, but need laws to buttress it because they are scared that all marriages will dissolve if divorce is available, all women will have abortions if they are available and everybody will act in a homosexual way if that becomes legal. I think that is the basic argument. It is between those people who want not only to say that certain things ought to be done because they are the moral and right things to do but who feel defensive and pessimistic about the outlook for society unless a law is used to buttress that sort of belief. They are the ones who continuously tell us what is and what is not natural but they do not believe that people will behave naturally unless the weight of the law forces them to do so. To those people who have not got very much faith in what is natural I say that I would be interested to hear what is the definition of natural' if they believe that people normally behave in an unnatural fashion. 
Basically I appeal to honourable members to be careful not to be pressurised by small outside groups. When I refer to small outside groups I include organisations such as the Abortion Law Reform Association and its opposite, the Right to Life Association; the Women's Electoral Lobby; resident action groups; the Festival of 
Light; and the Vietnam moratorium organisation, to make the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  happy. I include all those groups. I think it is important that people ought to vote for or against this amendment according to their beliefs and more importantly I think that after having defeated the amendment they should deal with the actual contents of the Bill in the Committee stage. They should vote for or against certain propositions if they really believe in them but not because a vocal pressure group tries to stand over them. The last time that honourable members opposite gave in to one of those pressure groups was on the issue of parliamentary salaries. Members of the Country Party now sitting in the corner are about to give in to an outside pressure group. They also did it on that previous occasion and anybody who has talked to them since then knows very well that they have regretted it ever since. 
When this legislation was discussed in the Senate only seven out of 60 senators voted against the Bill after a very long discussion. In this House it appears that the proportion of God-fearing representatives who not only know how everybody ought to behave but who also want to enforce this will be much greater. For example, all the Country Party senators supported this measure in the Senate but here nearly all the Country Party members seem to support the peculiar beliefs of the honourable member for Riverina that nobody in the rural areas wants a clean divorce but is satisfied with the spouse and livestock. 
When the honourable member for Riverina was a distinguished officer in the Australian Army he was in favour of separating married couples for years or even permanently, but I suppose he feels that death is preferable to divorce. Arguments of the Festival of Light and the Right to Life are minimal. These organisations send out material suggesting that we should prevent or discourage divorce, abortion and contraception because the countries of eastern Europe do so. Let me tell them now that as far as I am concerned the fact that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and its satellites, or 
Spain, have a certain policy is a prima facie argument against it. 
I should like to look at some of the arguments of the opponents to the Bill in this House who pretend to be against specific clauses but who are really opposed to divorce in general. I think the important thing for us to remember is that many people oppose the Bill for religious reasons. I do not for one minute dispute that they have a right to hold this personal belief that a marriage is a permanent institution. A person is perfectly entitled to that belief, and obviously I would defend his right- not that it has ever been challenged, as far as I know- not to have a divorce if he does not want to have a divorce. What I object to is that they want to impose their views on the rest of society. That surely is where this House comes into it and has to take a stand, and I would hope that honourable members are prepared to take a stand. 
Some people oppose the proposed legislation because they oppose divorce. I think the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  whom I normally consider to be a very rational and reasonable person, as he knows, ignored the position under the present legislation. I made some points by way of interjection when he was speaking, but I should like to make one point now. I should like to quote from a Press release dated 20 October 1974 by  Sir Kenneth  McCaw, then  Mr McCaw,  who has just retired as AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales. I respect my colleague's view that marriages should be permanent but I would appreciate it if he would see what is happening at the present time. Under the heading 'Speed-up in divorce suits' the Press release states: 
Quick 8-week divorces will be available in NSW under a new 'speed-up' scheme introduced by the Attorney-General,  Mr McCaw.  The 'quickie' divorces will apply only to undefended petitions. It takes at least 6 months now for an undefended divorce petition to come before the court. 
Under our legislation the period is one year. People who are opposing the legislation feel that that is too short. The Press release goes on: 
Two Supreme Court judges, assigned exclusively to speed up divorce hearings, will deal with at least 400 undefended petitions a week. A spokesman for the Family Law Court Registrar said this week:  'Mr Justice  Waddell and  Mr Justice  Yeldham each will hear about 200 divorce petitions a week. Another 100 undefended petitions a week would be disposed of by other judges sitting in the Family Law division. 'We hope that by next month an undefended divorce will take about 12 weeks to reach' the courts and by the end of the year only 8 weeks. ' 
Under the present legislation a person can get a divorce in 8 weeks in New South Wales. The Press release goes on: 
There are 10 undefended divorce petitions to every one defended in NSW. The spokesman said that additional petitions would make it necessary for petitioners and their legal representatives to keep up to date with the list numbers published each morning. 
Talk about computers, as somebody was talking about them earlier. A person awaiting a hearing for his divorce has to look at the newspaper every morning because his divorce could be on in the afternoon. The Press handout concluded: 
A twenty-four hour telephone service (241 342 1 ) will list numbers of petitions for hearing the following day. 
A person may ring that number to see whether he is on the computer for tomorrow. This is the sort of proposition that honourable members opposite are defending as being a reasonable way of dealing with divorce. They are opposing the propositions that are being put up in this legislation as being unfair and against the concept of permanent union. As far as I am concerned- I think the honourable member for Fremantle agreed with me- the State cannot prevent marriages from breaking up. I think the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who last night moved the amendment, himself said that. He said: 
The fact is that marriage counselling can only be successful if the 2 persons involved want their marriage to work. The Bill does not, and indeed cannot force an unwilling party to attend for counselling. 
He then went on to cite  Mr Basil  Hogan, a barrister with wide experience, who agreed with that proposition. The point is that no law can prevent a marriage from breaking up. I think that, as far as possible, society should supply the sort of facilities which would enable as many marriages as possible to continue. Whether it be a question of finance, a question of help in the home or a question of help with the children, obviously it is the duty of the appropriate government- State or Federal- to come in and help. But beyond that it is certainly not possible for a government in any country to prevent a marriage from breaking up. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has returned to the chamber. He spoke about the case of a young woman who had fallen pregnant and who had then been deserted by her husband. He said that she could be divorced when the baby was possibly only 3 months old. Obviously, that could happen, but surely the proposition is this: Is she any better off being theoretically married to some man when no divorce is possible? Is there any advantage from her point of view? Is there any advantage from the child's point of view? I put it to the honourable member that the marriage has broken up. It is a terrible thing to have happened, but that is the case. The fact that in theory people are still married does not help the woman or the baby in the least, as she knows. On the contrary, a divorce is likely to lead to some son of financial and emotional settlement which she is not able to obtain at the present time. After all, 75 per cent of all divorcees remarry. Last night the Minister for Tourism and Recreation in attacking the Bill summarised what he considered to be the likely evil social and economic consequences for the community in this Bill. He said: 
The first consequence will be an increase in the number of divorces in the community. 
That is probably so, but the point I would like to make is that it will not necessarily increase the number of broken marriages. In fact I would argue that it would not make any difference to the number of broken marriages. What would make a difference to is the number of people who are divorced rather than the number whose marriages have broken up. The Minister went on to say: 
Secondly, the provision of support services will impose a financial burden on the community. 
I say: So what? I am surprised that the Minister who is a distinguished member of the Australian Labor Party Government is concerned that the provision of support services for people who have been adversely affected by broken marriages will impose a financial burden on the community. Finally he said: 
The parties to broken marriages will suffer financial and emotional burdens in making new homes and establishing new personal relationships. 
That is obviously true. That is what a broken marriage is all about. The people involved suffer financial and especially emotional burdens in making new homes and establishing new personal relationships. Certainly this piece of legislation does not alter that and does not improve on that. That is why I cannot get terribly excited about it. But it certainly does not make it any worse. 
Last night the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  opposed this legislation. One can understand his point of view in opposing this legislation because he is very friendly with and is indebted to inquiry agents. He uses inquiry agents himself in politics and he probably feels that he is indebted to those inquiry agents. No doubt very shortly we will hear the result of his last dealing with inquiry agents. So I am not surprised that he feels he has a debt to inquiry agents. 
Yes. I have enough time to repeat it. The honourable member for Mackellar has been sleeping at the back of the chamber, though admittedly this time with the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  who probably is a more attractive sleeping partner than he has had for a long time. The honourable member for Mackellar opposes this so called no-fault divorce concept. He believes that adultery should still be a cause for divorce because he is friendly with inquiry agents. He uses inquiry agents in politics. He is proud of it. A court case is coming up in the near future. One cannot deal with that in detail, but the honourable member has used inquiry agents and their activities will be dealt with in a case coming to court in the near future. 
The amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and seconded, I think, by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  if carried, would mean the destruction of the Bill as it stands at the present time. The final clause of the amendment, clause (g), reads:  that marriage should be dissolved only when a Court is satisfied on objective grounds that the marriage has irretrievably broken down or- 
I emphasise the word 'or'-  that the parties have lived separately and apart for not less than two years. 
I put it to the House that it would be a retrograde step if the mere fact that people have separated by itself is a ground for divorce. As the Minister for Education pointed out and as the honourable member for Riverina would undoubtedly be aware, the separation can be a separation which has nothing to do with the aims of the people concerned. People can be separated because they have been forced into separation. Surely the important thing is whether the marriage has irretrievably broken down, and surely the word that should be used in the amendment should be and' and not 'or'. Those 2 factors should not be alternatives, but they should surely both be present at the same time. 
Let me conclude by appealing to honourable members to vote according to their beliefs and not to give in to pressure from the Festival of Light or the clergy who are professionally employed by their churches to impose their beliefs on the rest of society. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do. In the current issue of the 'Australian Medical Association Gazette' which was circulated last week  Senator Baume,  representing the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, stated inter alia: 
A recent public statement attributed to  Dr R.  Klugman, M.P., calling on contributors to transfer to other health insurance funds to avoid paying arrears, is a blatant incitement to ignore a decision by the N.S.W. Supreme Court. 
He then went on to refer to a case which was decided before the New South Wales Supreme Court in November 1974 by  Mr Justice  Shepherd and he concluded by saying: 

 Dr Klugman 's ill considered advice to fund contributors is unworthy of a parliamentarian who must respect judicial decisions, whether he personally agrees with them or not. 
What are the facts? Before the Supreme Court of New South Wales, at present part heard, is a case of Lance Rickards, a totally and permanently incapacitated repatriation pensioner of Pendle Hill, against the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. It is case No. 3049 of 1974. The plaintiff,  Mr Rickards,  claims declarations and orders as follows: 
A declaration that sub-sections ( 12), ( 13) and ( 14) of section 78 of the National Health Act 1933-1974 are not within the legislative powers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia and are invalid. 
A declaration that the defendants may not lawfully require of their respective members, by reasons of the determination of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Ian Shepherd, made on 21 November 1974, that the said members pay contributions in excess of those determined by the Minister for Social Security on 28 July, 1 974. 
Order that The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited . . . their servants and agents be restrained from counselling or procuring any person to pay contributions within the meaning of the National Health Act 1953-1974 to the defendants in excess of those determined by the Minister for Social Security on 28 July 1974 and of accepting contributions in excess of the same. 
Might I suggest that it is  Senator Baume  who is in contempt of court by attempting to prejudge a case before the New South Wales Supreme Court at the present time and likely to go before the High Court of Australia, no matter how confident he may be that the people who have been appointed to the High Court by previous governments will rule in his favour. 
-I realise the difficulty the Opposition has at the present time in speaking to this legislation. The 2 members designated by the Opposition to speak on health and social security, the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  and the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  have decided that the usual parliamentary break is not long enough and have decided to stay away for another two or three weeks. That is fair enough. The difficulty the Opposition has is that  Mr Bill  Arthur, who was for a short time the honourable member for Barton but was defeated in 1969 and since then has been acting as a lobbyist around this House, has to find someone on the Opposition side to whom he can give his speeches. It is difficult for  Mr Arthur  to do that. I think  Mr Arthur  has found that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  will accept his speeches. The honourable member for Chisholm has disappeared again but he will probably give the usual sanctimonious mixture of Staley and Arthur. 
It is depressing when we see around this House lobbyists for the Australian Medical Association and for the so-called Voluntary Health Insurance Council, personified by the former honourable member for Barton,  Mr Arthur,  who lives off that sort of lobbying. It is depressing for the community and for the Parliament itself that one side of the Parliament has to rely on that sort of source for its information. 
Let me now deal with the argument used by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  He said that the majority of the population was opposed to Medibank. He bases that proposition on a Morgan poll published in the 'Bulletin' towards the end of last year. The question asked in that poll was a loaded Morgan question, that being the reason why the Morgan organisation lost its relationship with gallup polls. The question was along this line: 'Do you support the present system of voluntary health insurance with a free choice of doctors or a system of salaried doctors paid for out of taxation?' It was that sort of unbiassed question, but even then only about 53 per cent voted for the free choice proposition. I note that the honourable member for Chisholm has come back into the chamber. He has found the speech written by  Mr Arthur  and he will no doubt follow me. 
Jack Cade works via Arthur. That is what Arthur lives on. As we know, this present piece of legislation is introduced to smooth the transition between the present system and the introduction of Medibank. We hear all kinds of dire predictions about Medibank itself, what a terrible thing Medibank will be. I think we will hear that from the honourable member for Chisholm. We heard the prognostications today from the honourable member for Barker about the anarchy and chaos that will result on 1 July 1975. 
What is Medibank? Medibank is the Australian health insurance program which will start on 1 July 1975. It is the name of the Health Insurance Commission's medical and hospital benefits scheme. (Quorum formed) I again thank the honourable member for Barker for providing me with an audience. I was outlining what Medibank is. I pointed out that it was the name for the Health Insurance Commission's medical and hospital benefits scheme. The medical benefits scheme will be in operation in all Australian States from 1 July 1975. The hospital benefits scheme will operate in all States and Territories which accept the Australian Government propositions on funding and other conditions. 
Let us deal firstly with the medical benefits aspect of Medibank. It will not be necessary to insure privately for medical benefits after 30 June. The Commission will meet 85 per cent of the scheduled medical fee- in other words the common fee- but, as at present, the patient will pay no more than $5 for any service charged at the scheduled rate. Medibank will pay for medical services whether performed inside or outside hospital and whether the patient chooses a standard ward, or public ward in some States, an intermediate or a private hospital ward. 
There will be 3 methods of payments to doctors, all similar to present methods. Firstly, the patient may pay the doctor and will receive a refund on the receipt which is received from the doctor. Secondly, the patient may forward the unpaid account to Medibank and receive a cheque made out to the doctor. Thirdly, the doctor may direct the bill to Medibank, accepting an assignment from the patient of the Medibank benefit as full payment. This third method, the assignment of benefit, will replace the pensioner medical service, making pensioner medical service patients eligible for the full range of benefits for all private medical services including, for the first time, specialist services. There Will be no change in the relationship between patient and doctor. The patient will be free to seek medical treatment from any doctor of his choice. 
I now turn to hospital benefits under Medibank. Negotiations are still proceeding between the Australian and State Governments. In co-operating States the State and Australian governments will meet all the costs of public ward treatment on approximately a 50-50 basis. At present the approximate breakdown is the State governments paying something approaching 60 per cent and the patient plus the funds paying 40 per cent. In return the State governments will abolish the means test for these wards. A quite strict means test applies at the present time in New South Wales at least. Patients will still be able to choose intermediate or private ward or private hospital accommodation and will be able to insure themselves for the extra cost. In these cases Medibank will contribute $18 per day towards the cost of that private accommodation compared with the present $2 per day Commonwealth contribution and will thus make extra insurance fairly cheap. Patients willing to use standard ward accommodation will need no further insurance. That, of course, will apply to everyone as the means test will no longer apply in public hospitals. 
There will be no contributions to Medibank as it will be funded from general revenue. Originally the scheme was to have been funded by way of a special levy on taxation but as honourable members know the Senate rejected that on the advice of the Liberal and Country Parties. So there will be no direct contributions to Medibank. This compares with the current charges of over $3 per week for the lowest family rate of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd or the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia in New South Wales and about $4 per week for private hospital cover. That is the position at present in New South Wales. 
I find it difficult to believe that the New South Wales State Government will refuse to cooperate on the hospital component of Medibank because if the scheme is not allowed to operate people seeking hospital cover, whose taxes will pay for Medibank, will have to continue to contribute at higher rates to the private hospital schemes. I find it difficult to believe that even a fairly insensitive government such as the Lewis Government would continue to stand up to the sort of pressure which would normally be developed from the community at large. 
It is important, though not essential, that the changes which are proposed in the current piece of legislation before us to enable the smooth transfer from the current system to Medibank are introduced. I think it is important that this scheme should be introduced for a number of reasons. Probably the most important single reason is that if the legislation before us today is not passed non-pensioner patients in nursing homes would not be eligible for a Government subsidy. I think it is a bit rough on the part of the Opposition to deny to non-pensioner patients in nursing homes the sort of contribution which the Government is intending to make in this legislation. I think as 1 July draws nearer we will see the Opposition capitulate on this legislation. 
One of the depressing reactions to the Medibank proposition is the way in which some organised sections of the Australian medical profession have acted. A significant number of medical practitioners, as the honourable member for Barker pointed out a few minutes ago, say that they will not co-operate with Medibank. The operations of Medibank outside of its hospital function will not affect doctors terribly much because all they will have to do is what they do at the present time. They either render an account or they give a receipt. They say on the receipt or the account what item they have performed. Therefore, as far as the doctor is concerned there is no change. As far as the patient is concerned the only change is that instead of having to contribute large amounts of money weekly to the funds this money will be paid out of general revenue and instead of claiming from the MBF or the HCF and so on the patient will claim on Medibank. 
Everyone contributes to general revenue. 
-I am not suggesting that anyone ever gives anything, unlike the honourable member for Griffith who offers himself frequently. 
-I have not said it was free. I did not mention the word 'free' in my description. I try to be - 
No, it does not claim it is a free scheme. It makes the point that it is paid out of general revenue. If the honourable member has idiots on his side who think that to be paid out of general revenue means that something is free, those members must come from the Australian Country Party who think that when large amounts of money are donated as subsidies to wool growers and others out of general revenue no one has to pay for it. I think that the honourable member for Petrie was a pharmacist before he came into this House. As such he would have been dispensing free medicine, as he calls it- this would have been on his door- to pensioner patients. However, this medicine was not free. But the honourable member would have called it free medicine because he wanted to cash in on it. It was not free at all. 
As the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)-  I am, of course, referring to the honourable member who was a member of this place before 1966 and has been a member since 1969- pointed out, the Government was prepared to specify from where the money would come so that no one could call it free. We wanted a 1.35 per cent surcharge. But the Opposition opposed and voted against this charge and defeated it in the Senate. The Opposition insisted that this scheme be paid for out of general revenue.  Senator Steele  Hall, the independent senator from South Australia, pointed out that this was one of the most stupid things that the Senate has ever done, and that chamber has done stupid things - 
As the honourable member for Robertson points out, that covers a large amount of territory. 
Let me emphasise, as far as the ordinary person is concerned, there will be very little change apart from the fact that he will not have to contribute between $3 and $4 a week to a fund. As far as most medical practitioners are concerned, there will also be very little change. I am surprised by the large amount of emotion that has been worked up by people such as  Mr Arthur.  The only persons who should be emotional about this scheme are the directors of some of the large funds. They are the only people who are going to miss out They control funds which at the moment have some $ 140m in reserves. These are the people who can make themselves good fellows and friends with the finance companies by investing their money in all kinds of projects. These are the people who have lovely trips abroad costing large amounts of money and make friends with  Mr Arthur  by paying him large sums of money for lobbying for them in this place. They are the only people who will miss out. Why should we be concerned? Why should honourable members opposite be concerned? I would have thought that honourable members opposite would have been just as interested as the Government in giving a reasonable system of health insurance to this country. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I also address myself to a couple of definitions and to why this legislation has become necessary. I am pleased that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  is leading for the Opposition because he shares with me an interest in another form of gambling. I suggest that he would be extremely concerned if racing, for example, through the Australian Jockey Club were controlled by licensed persons, as they are called in racing, in the same way as the stock exchanges have been controlled. I remind honourable members- many honourable members may recall this- that during the share boom period  Mr Gordon  Barton of Australia Party fame- not Thomas Barton- was involved in an attempt to make moneyon the stock exchange. It was a perfectly legitimate attempt under the existing rules of the stock exchange. He bought shares in a company whose name I have forgotten. Stock brokers short sold those shares. In other words, they sold shares in that company, although they did not have shares. They undoubtedly assumed that they would be able to get the shares for some lesser amount at some later stage and make a profit on the deal. What happened was that the number of shares Barton and his associates bought greatly exceeded the number of shares over which the brokerage companies could get control. 
I note that the  Chairman  of Committees appears concerned about whether the matter with which I am dealing is relevant. I am speaking of registered stock exchanges which control the market at present. Let us say that Barton bought these shares for 10c or 20c each and that the shares increased to $5 or $10. What happened was that the stock exchange suspended all sales of those shares even though the shares had not been delivered. The only avenue through which people could buy shares was from Barton himself. What I am putting is that this situation would correspond to the situation where the AJC Committee consisted of bookmakers. If, in the days when the honourable member for Moreton had a lot more money than he assured us he had when he was discussing the financial interests of parliamentarians, he had invested all his money on a horse at 4 to 1 and the bookmakers had expected that its price would drift to 5 to 1 or 6 to 1 so that they would cover themselves, but it started at odds on, the bookmakers controlling the AJC Committee could cancel all bets on that particular race and start betting again. I think the honourable member for Moreton would be extremely disappointed and would feel that the AJC Committee had not acted as an independent committee should act. This analogy explains why I am criticising the stock exchanges to which the provisions of this Bill relate. I am concerned with how people behave on the stock exchange. 
No, but I am comparing the behaviour of the stock exchanges during that boom period with the way one might possibly expect the AJC Committee to behave if its members comprised people with a direct interest in racing- bookmakers- who would also act as stewards. 
The second point to which I should like to address some remarks relates to financial journalists. I think it was the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who referred to this question. I think it is important that financial journalists should be covered by this legislation. These people have an important role to play regarding malpractices associated with the stock exchange. I shall quote from an article which contains a summary of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. It states: 
In connection with placements by Surveys and Mining Ltd via Ralph W. King and Yuill, and other brokers, the report notes that among the list of privileged subscribers (the shares were 60c compared with the market price of 90c) were- 
I will not go into all the details. Then the article continues: 
Six financial journalists including one financial editor and some other seniors, employed on 5 daily newspapers with an influence on the Sydney and Melbourne share markets  It is hard to escape the conclusion that the deliberate inclusion of the journalists in the placement was designed by the company, first, to stifle possible criticism of the placement technique . . . and secondly, to offer the journalists a personal financial incentive to give relatively favourable treatment. 
The committee does not suggest that all the journalists responded in the way the company presumably hoped they would. 
The article then goes on jo name the 6 journalists concerned. They were Neil Speirs, Michael Kulakowski, Jules Zanetti, Cliff Riggs, Ervin Katz, Michael Baume, Geoffrey Phillip Short and Peter D. O'sullivan. I think that the Michael Baume mentioned in that article is the endorsed Liberal candidate for the seat of Macarthur. 
If only the honourable member for Bennelong would get as excited about other people who are unable to defend themselves in this House. In his first session in this House he was the first person who attempted to have debated matters relating to an outsider. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) working days lost and (b) employees involved in industrial disputes during each month of 1974. 
I address a question on the same topic to the Minister for Social Security. On Tuesday a joint Press announcement by the Ministers for Health for New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia was to the effect that those States would not enter the Medibank hospital arrangements before 1 July. I ask: What effect will this have on the finances of the States concerned? In what way will the residents of those States be disadvantaged? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What were the first year to Junior Certificate level retention rates for (a) girls and (b) boys in (i) government (ii) Catholic and (iii) other non-government secondary schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) Australia in the most recent year for which figures are available? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the first to final year retention rates for (a) girls and (b) boys in (i) government, (ii) Catholic and (iii) other non-government secondary schools in (A) each State and Territory and (B) Australia in the most recent year for which figures are available. 
What proportion of all (a) boys and (b) girls in (i) each State and Territory and (ii) Australia attend each type of school mentioned in Part ( 1 ). 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Has he noticed the rather hysterical reaction from people such as the honourable member for Hotham, the honourable member for Chisholm and the honourable member for Cowper to the description of Medibank as being ' free '-that is, without contribution? Is Medibank in fact any less free than the previous Government's free milk scheme, the Queensland Government's free hospital scheme or the system of free education of which the State governments are very proud? 
-I wish tonight to address myself mainly to the question of the introduction of Medibank and the associated attempt to arouse fear and apprehension in a section of the community which is most susceptible to those feelings with respect to Medibank. On 2 April 1975 a letter by  Dr John  Prior of Boggabri was published in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. In that letter,  Dr Prior  claimed that from the introduction of Medibank pensioners who at present are eligible under the Pensioner Medical Service will have to pay 15 per cent of the medical costs of their treatment. This claim is completely untrue. He concludes his letter by saying: 
Pensioners, organise yourselves now, so that you can demand the free treatment the Government is promising. Don't be fobbed off with 85 per cent of your doctor s account. Demand that the Government refunds you 100 per cent. 
I am not sure whether  Dr Prior  is unaware of the procedure to be followed under Medibank or, as is more likely, is trying to scare pensioners. The latter is probably the case, I think, because, if he is a medical practitioner, he should be aware of what has been happening in negotiations and claims on the pan of the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society for the last 2 or 3 years. 
As honourable members are probably aware, at present pensioners who satisfy certain income limits are eligible for free pensioner medical service from general practitioners who are cooperating with the pensioner medical service. Over probably the past 3 years the more extreme groups in the profession have argued that doctors should not provide pensioner medical services at a great discount but that the Government should enroll all pensioners in the health funds that presently exist, with the doctors then being willing to treat the pensioners from the refund received from the health funds. Governments, including the previous Liberal and Country Party Government and the present Labor Party Government, have not agreed to this. 
Now, under Medibank, the system advocated has in effect come about and Medibank will cover all pensioners. In exchange for this cover, we naturally assume that medical practitionersgeneral practitioners in the first instance- who are at present giving service under the pensioner medical scheme will provide the same service at a rate of 85 per cent of the common fee. Let us remember that doctors will get a significant increase in income. At present co-operating general practitioners, that is general practitioners who subscribe to the pensioner medical service, receive $3.75 for a consultation with and $5.70 for a visit to an eligible pensioner. From 1 July 1975 under Medibank they will receive $5.30 and $7.85 respectively for pensioner consultations and visits if they accept an 85 per cent payment. So that the increases will be from $3.70 to $5.30 for a consultation and from $5.70 to $7.85 for a visit. Obviously, it is in their interests to transfer from the present pensioner medical service to the new Medibank scheme. 
In addition, specialists will be able to see pensioners and charge a rate of 85 per cent of the fee for service provided in their rooms, or of sessional fees in public hospitals instead of rendering services in an honorary or unpaid capacity as is the present position. As members are probably aware, at present pensioner medical service patients do receive free medical services from general practitioners but they do not receive free medical services from specialists. There is no system under the present scheme for providing free medical services from specialists. What happens is that pensioners have to attend an outpatients department at a hospital, or an inpatients department if they have to be admitted to hospital, where they are treated free of charge. Therefore, pensioners receive free treatment, while doctors must provide free treatment as they may not charge pensioners. Under the Government's proposal, the doctor will be paid on a feeforservice basis. 
I think that it is extremely unpleasant that some members of the medical profession are engaging in a type of scare tactic with regard to pensioner services. Obviously, Medibank will now be introduced. While medical practitioners who opposed Medibank thought that there was a possibility of preventing Medibank operating, one could see some political point in their trying to disrupt it or to scare people off it. Until probably four or five weeks ago there was a possibilitysome people believed there was even a likelihood- of an election being fought in the middle of this year, and the Liberal Party had given an undertaking that Medibank would not be perservered with if that Party won the election. 
Before the change in leadership,  Mr Snedden  gave an undertaking- and now the new leader,  Mr Fraser,  has done so- that there would be no interference with the Supply Bills and that therefore there would be no election in the middle of this year. The new Leader of the Opposition went further and quite correctly said what we have been saying for some time- that Medibank had been an issue in at least 2 elections, that it had certainly been an issue in the last election that there had been a double dissolution and a Joint Sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament during which Medibank had been accepted, and that it is now law. He said that there was no point in opposing Medibank and it would be the aim of the Opposition if and when it came into Government to make Medibank work, rather than to reject it or to change back to the old system. I appreciate that; I think it is a step in the right direction on the part of the Liberal leadership at least. 
I hope that now that Medibank will obviously come into operation, people who ought to be fairly responsible people in the community- this includes the medical profession- do not try to scare the community when it is pointless even politically. After all, there will not be an election before Medibank comes into operation, so whatever scare stories they may be able to spread amongst the pensioners will not have any political effect at a time when political effects are worth while from their point of view. I appeal to them to co-operate in explaining the facilities and the services which will be available under Medibank from 1 July this year, and to cooperate in bringing it about. 
It has always been my view that the vast majority of general practitioners will not be adversely affected by Medibank and will in fact show some small profit. A large proportion of specialists will in fact be better off under Medibank and a small proportion of specialists will be financially worse off. The only people who will really suffer under the introduction of Medibank are the executives of the present health funds. I do not feel particularly sorry for them because the other day when I went through their assets contained in the last annual report tabled in this House I found that the assets of private health insurance organisations amount to over $200m at the present time. This is a huge amount and I am sure that most of them will not be able to spend that sort of money by the time they die. 
I therefore appeal to those who are not executives of the health funds but who are interested in providing reasonable health care delivery to the Australian people not to be associated with the spreading of scare stories especially where pensioners are concerned. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the weekly family contribution rates to the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia in New South Wales on (a) 1 May 1974 and (b) 1 December 1974, and what are the current rates, in respect of (i) medical plus public ward cover, (ii) medical plus intermediate ward cover, and (iii) medical plus private ward cover. 
What was the percentage increase in each case, and what was the corresponding percentage increase in average weekly earnings during the same periods. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Hashis attention been drawn to a statement by Leonard Casley, wheat farmer of Western Australia and self styled Prince Leonard of Hutt River, in which he claims that he and other resident citizens of Hutt River Province do not pay taxation on income earned totally within the Hutt River Province; if so, is the statement correct. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female civilian employees have there been in each month since November 1972, and what was the total figure in each of the same months. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a court case before  Mr Justice  Nagle in Parramatta, New South Wales, in March of this year in which 3 men were convicted of murdering Dieter Bergmann on 20 September 1974 at Liverpool, New South Wales? Has he noted the evidence that Bergmann was a member of an organisation formed to overthrow the Government of Australia and was killed by three of his fellow members because he was considered to be a security risk to this organisation? Does he have any details as to the organisation referred to? 
Although the people who are listening to the broadcast of this debate may not know it, the members of this House who have been participating in this debate this evening have voluntarily agreed to cut down their speaking time. That is the reason why the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate was cut off in midstream by his  Deputy  Whip. In the few minutes available to me, before dealing with specific Australian issues, I would like to make a couple of points on matters that are directly connected with Australia only in the sense that they relate to countries in our region. 
Earlier this year I visited Indonesia to see what type of society was evolving there, what kind of government was in charge, what kind of opposition was present and so on. I was extremely impressed by the country and I was impressed in many ways by the leadership of the country. One of the disappointing aspects of the visit to me was the presence of a large number of political prisoners. One of the people whom I had gone there specifically to see was out of Jakarta on the days when I wanted to see him. Within a few days after that he was arrested and put in gaol.  His  name is Mochtar Lubis. In speaking tonight about my visit to Indonesia I am therefore pleased to say that he was released from gaol yesterday or the day before.  His  arrest received a lot of publicity in the Australian newspapers and justifiably so. I think that it is possible that his detention was discussed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he met  President  Suharto of Indonesia during the last few weeks. 
I am certainly pleased that Mochtar Lubis has been released from gaol. Apparently he has been cleared of all suspicion of participation in the socalled Tanaka riots at the time of the Japanese Prime Minister's visit to Jakarta in January 1 974. He has been freed completely and no restriction has been placed on his movements. I would like to congratulate the Indonesian Government on taking this step. I hope that the Indonesian 
Government will go much further and release not only the people arrested in the 1974 riot but also many of those arrested in 1965. Those of us who wish Indonesia success in trying to form a new society and in trying to give economic benefits to the inhabitants of Indonesia without falling under a communist regime are sometimes disappointed by what we see as the over-reaction of the Indonesian authorities to the actions of the people. After all, Mochtar Lubis spent many years in gaol under the Sukarno regime. It seemed ridiculous that he should again be arrested by the present Government. 
The second person I would like to mention- it is appropriate to do so today with the fall of the Khmer Republic- is the Prime Minister of the Khmer Republic, Long Boret, who is, for all I know, dead by now. He was appointed Prime Minister towards the end of 1973. I had the pleasure of getting to know him in 1973 when he was the Foreign Minister of the Khmer Republic and was attending the United Nations. At the time I was one of the parliamentary delegates in New York. He now has a reputation in this country amongst many people with whom I associate of being a fascist and of being an extreme right winger. May I say quite clearly that that is not true. I do not know what he has done between the end of 1973 and now, except what I have seen in the newspapers. I spent a couple of evenings with him and had long talks with him because he was the sort of person with whom I felt some empathy. He is a Cambodian lawyer who was elected to Parliament in about 1965 or 1966. He had been a lecturer or professor at a university. He was very concerned about civil liberties. He was a parliamentarian under the previous government- under Prince Sihanouk- in Cambodia. He was extremely disappointed with the previous government because of its interference with any form of civil liberties in that country. We may have had different opinions about the necessity to suppress civil liberties in Cambodia under certain conditions. At that stage Cambodia was trying to keep out of the war and- correctly or incorrectly- was suppressing much opposition. The point I want to make is that anybody who labels Long Boret as a fascist does not know whom he is talking about. He certainly was not a fascist. He just did not have that sort of attitude. His whole reason for participating in the overthrow of the previous government- the Sihanouk Government- was in fact his opposition to the authoritarian attitude of Sihanouk as the ruler of Cambodia. 
I would like to make a couple of points concerning what is happening politically in Australia at the present time or what has happened during the last few weeks. I have been involved in the spreading of the gospel as far as Medibank is concerned. The Australian Labor Party has been working on a national health insurance plan for many years- ever since I became a member of this chamber. Of course, 2 years prior to that the plan had in its essential outline been adopted by the Australian Labor Party for introduction. I must admit that earlier this year, even though the legislation had been passed last year, I had some doubts about its introduction. I had some doubts about whether the Opposition in the Senate, which has control of the Senate, would pass the Supply Bills which we are now about to pass without opposition. I thought that there might be an election and that, because of economic conditions, we might be defeated and the introduction of the Medibank scheme would be postponed. I am pleased that that has not happened. I must admit that I felt sorry when the previous Leader of the Opposition, who was not going terribly well, was suddenly set upon by a pack of wolves, or hyenas or whatever one likes to call them. I am talking about those people in the Opposition ranks- 36 of them or whatever the number was- and the people outside this House, including those who control some of the newspapers- the Fairfax organisation and the Packer organisation- who set to work to destroy the previous Leader of the Opposition. With the help of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who made his sacrifice for Lent by giving up  Mr Snedden,  the previous Leader was destroyed and kicked when he was down. 
I do not know what the present Leader of the Opposition will be like as a parliamentarian. It is hard to tell at this stage. It is certainly pleasant from our point of view that the whole ball game has changed. The Leader of the Opposition has announced that the Opposition will not oppose Medibank, that it will co-operate with the Government in certain respects and that it will not use its numbers in the Senate in the way it used them previously. Certainly from our point of view there has been an improvement in the leadership and behaviour of the Opposition Parties as a result of the change. I am glad that there will be no further opposition to the introduction of Medibank. That will make it possible for Medibank to be introduced smoothly. The Australian Medical Association has now abandoned its opposition to Medibank and will co-operate with the Government. Obviously everything will be working reasonably well. 
Having said that, I would still like to pay a tribute to the previous Leader of the Opposition, whom I got to know when he was, I think, the Minister for Labour and National Service, which was the title of the portfolio in the days of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, and whom I found to be a very co-operative gentleman. His heart seemed to be in the right place, whatever may be thought about his leadership qualities. 
I congratulate the Government in introducing the Supply Bills. I hope that the Government will continue on its way in trying to improve the conditions of the people of Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs. I refer to the proposed formation of the Australia Police and the associated proposed legislation to come before this House. Has the Minister seen criticism of the report from  Mr Carmody  seeking access to taxation and Australian Security Intelligence Organisation data for the proposed police force? Has he seen criticism of the fact that  Mr Carmody  has offered ASIO access to the Australia Police's proposed powerful new computer with the proposal that it will have its own key to that computer? Has he seen criticism from  Mr Evans? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will he give details of current unemployment benefit rates compared with the rates paid in previous years of high unemployment, namely 1961 and 1972. 
What are these rates for (a) single male, 18-20 years old, (b) single adult male, (c) married male and (d) married male with two children. 
How do each of these unemployment rates compare when expressed as a percentage of average weekly earnings. 
Do these figures indicate that the Australian Labor Government has significantly improved the real living standards of people receiving unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
With reference to investments on the Australian Capital Territory TAB, what was the average investment on metropolitan race meetings held on (a) Saturdays, (b) holidays and (c) weekdays on (i) win tote per race, (ii) place tote per race, (iii) quinella tote per race and (iv) daily double during the last month for which figures are available. 
What are the similar figures for the holdings on Harold Park trot meetings. 
-The Bill and the amendments before us basically deal with 3 types of divorce- 3 types of circumstances. I shall not list the 3 categories in order of frequency but in the order in which they appear in the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and my own. Firstly, there is divorce possibly imposed on an innocent party. Secondly, there is divorce by consent where both parties agree that a divorce should take place. Thirdly, there is divorce resulting from intolerable behaviour by the party not wanting the divorce. Let us see how the different amendments deal with those 3 types of cases. Firstly, I refer to the imposition of a divorce on a so-called innocent party by the other party who wants a divorce and has moved out. The Bill proposes that there be 12 months separation and the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth, and supported by some other speakers, proposes that the period should be 24 months. I support the provision of a period of 12 months in that case. 
Secondly, there is the question of consent. There is nothing at all in the Bill dealing with the question of consent. We have 3 propositions. We have the proposition advanced by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  that divorce can be obtained 3 months after consent is given. We have my proposition that a divorce can be obtained 6 months after consent is given. We have the proposition advanced by the honourable member for Wentworth that a divorce can be obtained 12 months after consent is given. 
Thirdly, we have the question of intolerable behaviour by the party who does not want a divorce. If both parties want a divorce they can obtain one under the consent provision, but if one party behaves in an intolerable way- as far as I am concerned, basically that is physical assault- and does not want a divorce, what does the other party do? There is no provision for that in the Bill. The Bill makes the assumption- I consider it to be a middle-class assumption drafted by lawyers- that it is easy for one party to move out where the other party's behaviour becomes intolerable. I do not think that that is always possible. I am certainly middle-class, but for many years before I became a member of this Parliament I was a medical practitioner in working class areas and I was aware of the sorts of problems which arose where a wife, in most cases, was the so-called innocent party- innocent in the sense that she had been assaulted. I am not saying that she was innocent as far as the breakdown of the marriage was concerned, but she could not get a divorce, and she cannot get a divorce under the proposals in this Bill because the Bill requires separation. Even though the Bill does not necessarily require physical separation, I take it from the way clause 49 is worded it means that if a husband assaults his wife frequently, provided he still enjoys sexual relations with her- or still has sexual relations with her, because the question of enjoyment does not come into it, as has been pointed out by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)she  is not entitled to a divorce. In many cases she could not prevent sexual relations from taking place because pure physical force would enforce the husband 's insistence. 
I believe that the way the Committee feels at present it will reach possibly the sort of compromise proposition that has been advanced by the honourable member for Wentworth. I appeal to the Committee to think deeply about this matter. There is a tendency for people- the so-called trendies- to support the legislation as it has been introduced. There is a risk of doing that sort of thing, saying 'This is an improvement on the present legislation', as happened some years ago when the South Australian Government introduced legislation on abortion law reform. In fact the legislation in South Australia is much stricter now than is the legislation in New South Wales or Victoria. Obviously I have not time to go into that now, but those honourable members who know anything about it would be aware that that is a fact. 
These are the sorts of arguments that are being used by people who, often, have not read the Bill- certainly by people who have not studied the Bill. We who are prepared to support the civil liberties of the parties and to say that they ought to be able to get a divorce under certain circumstances, do not let us take the risk of making it tougher for parties to get a divorce than is the case at present. Therefore, I appeal to members of the Committee to think carefully about the amendments which have been proposed by the Attorney-General, by the honourable member for Wentworth and, of course, by me. 
I have a letter from Professor Nygh, the Head of the School of Law at Macquarie University, which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 6 March 1975. I believe that the letter explains clause 6. 1 will try to read the letter very quickly in order to explain the position. I especially hope that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will listen to what is contained in the letter because I believe that a reasonable explanation is given. Professor Nygh, replying to a letter from  Mr F.  Gormly, Q.C., stated: 

 Mr Gormly stated that clause 6 of the Family Law Bill 1974 would, if enacted, permit Australians to contract polygamous marriages abroad. 
This is incorrect. 
Clause 6 of the Family Law Bill, like section 6a of the present Matrimonial Causes Act 1959, is intended to overcome the ancient English decision of Hyde v. Hyde, in which it was held that English courts could not grant matrimonial relief to parties to a polygamous marriage, either to dissolve it if it was valid or to annul it if it was void. 
This refusal of jurisdiction applied even when the marriage was in fact monogamous, the husband having taken only one wife, but where he had under the relevant foreign law the right to take further wives. 
In 1962 this policy led the Victorian Supreme Court, quite correctly as the law then stood, to refuse matrimonial relief, including custody and maintenance, to an Australian woman who had married a Pakistani in Karachi in a Muslim ceremony, even though both parties were by then settled in Australia and the husband had not taken another wife. 
To the Australian Parliament of the day this seemed unjust, and the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 was amended in 1965 by inserting section 6a which provided, subject to certain conditions, that a polygamous marriage celebrated outside Australia should henceforth come within the definition of 'marriage' for the purpose of matrimonial relief under the Act. 
One of the conditions was that both parties should at the time of marriage be domiciled (i.e. permanently resident) in countries which permitted males to contract multiple marriages. 
This condition led to further hardship a few years later when the West Australian Supreme Court held that a young Australian woman who was domiciled in Australia and had married a Malaysian in Penang in a Muslim ceremony could not, upon her return to Australia after the marriage broke down, invoke the jurisidiaion of the court to dissolve the marriage. 
The removal of this condition in the present Bill will ensure that jurisidiction cannot be denied in future similar cases. 
Clause 6, therefore, like its predecessor, is merely concerned with giving the courts jurisdiction in respect of polygamous and potentially polygamous marriages. It says nothing about the capacity of Australians to contract several marriages abroad. 
Indeed, there is a strong argument- supported by many judges in England and Australia- that an Australian, being domiciled in a country permitting monogamy only, cannot lawfully marry in a polygamous fashion, either here or abroad. 
If that view is correct, all clause 6 will do is to permit an Australian court to decree the formal annulment of such a marriage, unlike the West Australian court in the case earlier mentioned which had to tell the unfortunate young woman concerned to go away not knowing whether she was or was not married under Australian law. 
It would also permit an Australian court to order maintenance and grant custody over any children born of the relationship. 
E. Nygh, Professor and Head of School of Law, Macquarie University, North Ryde (N.S.W.). 
I am sure that honourable members will not have had a chance to digest what was contained in the letter because I had to read it so quickly. I had to do this because I did not know whether I could finish reading it in the time available to me. I hope that honourable members, before they get carried away into debating this matter in a silly way- especially the lawyers among them- will read the letter which was published in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' of 6 March 1 975. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the behaviour of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of New South Wales, to which my attention has been drawn, that when subscribers seek to renew their subscriptions for the medical part of the Hospitals Contribution Fund until 1 July, when Medibank comes into force, and for the hospital part for 3 months, because there is discount on that basis, they are unable to do so, because the Hospitals Contribution Fund insists on them paying subscriptions for the same period of time? Will the Minister take urgent steps under any authority he may have as far as the Hospitals Contribution Fund is concerned to force that organisation to accept subscriptions only to 1 July for medical purposes and for longer periods for the hospital part until the New South Wales Government joins the hospital part of this Medibank scheme? 
-Whatever else may be said about the Liberal Party and its relationship now with the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  one thing can be said. Even though the Liberal Party may have expelled him from the Party, he must still have a lot of friends in the Party, because at the very meeting at which it expelled him it decided to oppose this legislation to make quite sure that he will get into the Senate as a representative of the Australian Capital Territory at the next election. It has certainly made it very easy for Mm. 
I wish to deal with one aspect of this legislation very briefly. In passing, I note the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  sitting in the chamber. What hypocrisy it is on the part of people like him who strongly support the huge benefits which are paid under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme to officers of the Services who are trained at our expense, resign at the age of 40 to 50 with amounts of about $40,000 and then get on their high horse to complain about public servants. It is all right if you are an officer but it is not OK if you are a public servant. 
I want to deal with the question of the temporary public servant. The Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his second reading speech said: 
Persons of lower medical standard on entry who, under the present arrangements would be required to join the Provident Account will come under the new scheme as will those members at present contributing to the Provident Account. Benefits from the scheme may be reduced on medical grounds in the event of their death or invalidity retirement before completing 20 years of contributory service. 
This seems a very reasonable proposition to me. At the present time temporary employees who have been in the Public Service for 3 years and who have reasonable prospects of continuing in the Service for another 7 years are admitted to the Provident Account. It is now proposed that these periods be reduced to one year and 3 years respectively. My objection to what is happening in the Public Service al the present time concerns the rejection of people for permanency because of a medical condition, often a very minor medical condition. When I was in medical practice I was consulted by people, especially young people, who had been rejected for permanency in the Public Service. When I checked them over I could not find anything wrong with them. Maybe I was not a good doctor, but I found them perfectly all right. When I checked with the doctor from the Commonwealth Public Service I found the reason for their rejection was a very minor thing such as a varicose vein or a potential varicose vein. Women who were rejected may have had pre-menstrual pain when they were young. These people were rejected for permanency in the Public Service. This is a quite ridiculous position. 
The Australian Public Service discriminates against workers with minor disabilities. It should not do that, because who is going to employ them? The important thing is to provide people with minor disabilities, and for that matter major disabilities, with employment. It is quite reasonable to make it more difficult for them to benefit from superannuation, as is proposed under this legislation. Under this Bill certain restrictions are imposed on them. Their premiums may be higher but surely they ought to get permanency in the Public Service. A friend of mine had been a crane driver in the Australian Public Service for over 20 years, and he is still temporary. The reason is that he has varicose veins and does not want to have them operated on. I do not blame him. He has had the condition for 20 years. He cannot get permanency. Whenever he is promoted to any new position where he obtains more pay, as soon as any permanent crane driver appears on the job he loses that promotion and goes back to the lowest rung of the ladder. This is a quite ridiculous position if we want to deal with people in a reasonable fashion. 
I therefore appeal to the Minister to talk to the Public Service Board with a view to ensuring that the practice ceases of not admitting people with disabilities to the permanent Public Service because they would make a big difference to the Superannuation Fund. Under the present proposals benefits for such people will be reduced on medical grounds if certain conditions occur arising from pre-existing medical conditions. If that is accepted those people should be eligible for permanency in the Public Service the same as anybody else. I appeal to the Minister to do as I have suggested. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. In view of attempts to cut Budget expenditure, in the forthcoming Budget will the Minister ensure that tertiary allowances will be no higher than unemployment benefits or pensions? Secondly, will he consider making tertiary allowances and tertiary fees subject to a means test and generally introduce a system of repayable loans rather than grants for tertiary students, remembering that these students generally will become recipients of well above average incomes? 
-We have just seen an Actors Equity performance in this House completely irrelevant to the matter under discussion, which is not surprising because the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  even though he has been the shadow Minister for Social Security for nearly 3 years, still does not understand what Medibank is about. It is a great pity but it is true. He told us that the fact that private health funds are misleading contributors is not an important issue. It is an important issue. It means that they are trying to get $1.86 a week per family in the case of New South Wales and higher amounts in some other States. That amounts to some $95 a year. That amounts to some $200m rip-off from the Australian population under false pretences. This is the important thing. It is false pretences. The funds are trying to pretend to the Australian population, to the present contributors, that it is necessary for them to continue their medical insurance cover, which it is not necessary to do in any Australian State or Territory after 1 July. Even the LiberalNational Country Party Government in New South Wales, in a 2-page advertisement in all Sunday newspapers last weekend stated: 
After July 1, there will be no need to continue your medical insurance. 
That is the important point. Yet the funds- the Hospitals Contribution Fund and the Medical Benefits Fund in New South Wales and so on- are trying to continue with a scheme which has the same name as the present scheme. They will continue to call it scheme M. M used to stand for medical cover. They say that in future it will stand for multi-cover. The funds say that multicover will cost no more than the present medical benefits contributions- $1.86 a week for families and 93c a week for single persons. They have worked it out to be exactly $1.86 so that people will not realise that they will be subscribing to something to which it will be no longer necessary to subscribe after 1 July. Surely if there has ever been trickery or attempted trickery in Australia on a huge scale- as I pointed out, approaching $200m a year- this is surely that sort of trickery. 
When the funds submitted their costing to the Department of Social Security it was found that it was impossible to cost the scheme. The funds included a large number of alleged services. They all have extreme limits on them. The funds included just about everything which is tax deductible so that the $1 . 86 may be tax deductible. 
They included school health care, funeral expenses, out-patient treatment, private hospital theatre fees and dental services- dental services with extreme restrictions. An amount of 55c a week is to be charged to cover dental services. If one looks at the cover and read it in detail in fact one finds that it does not cover normal dental services available. It mentions orthodontists, endodontists, pedodontists and periodontists, but it does not mention the ordinary dentist doing fillings. That is the sort of multi-cover that the funds will provide. 
They will cover the repair of prosthetic appliances, the provision of wooden legs, the provision of overseas health care which is already, by the way, covered under Medibank. Those are the sorts of propositions which the funds say they will cover. Most importantly, they will charge people more than 45c a week for what is called the 'Medibank gap' which is exactly the gap that has been in existence until now in relation to medical benefits refunds. An 85 per cent return or a maximum $5 moiety has always been the maximum return. The Australian Medical Association has always argued that it is terribly important to retain that gap so as not to get overvisiting by patients to medical practitioners. So it is still necessary for the patient to contribute something towards the cost of his medical treatment. What are the doctors doing now? With extreme hypocrisy the Australian Medical Association has supplied posters to all Australian doctors ' surgeries asking the doctors to show them to their patients. The posters ask the patients to stay in what is called, in the case of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, multi-cover so that they will get that 15 per cent gap refund. What utter hypocrisy! On the one hand the doctors are arguing that there will be over-visitation on the part of the patients to doctors if doctors bulk bill and that there will be over-visitation on the part of patients if there is no 1 5 per cent gap; then they are asking people to insure themselves for that 1 5 per cent gap. 
The honourable member for Hotham in one of his wilder statements referred to the funds as cooperative and mutual organisations. In fact, what is the truth? The funds have large memberships yet the memberships have no say whatever in the running of those funds. For example, in case of the Hospitals Contribution Fund- which is the second biggest fund in New South Wales- I have previously pointed out that there is no provision at all for election to the council of the fund. In the case of the Medical Benefits 
Fund of Australia, which claims to cover membership of some 2 500 000, only medical members have a vote. Clause 7 of that fund's constitution provides that:  medical members of the association shall be elected by the council or the committee appointed by the council to select medical members. 
In other words, only a very small number of people can be appointed as electors for that body. Yet the honourable member for Hotham has the hide to call the funds co-operative organisations. Members have no say whatever in those organisations which are being run by people who are completely unrepresentative of the contributors. They are being run by persons who represent big business for one reason or another. The latest report of the MBF council indicates that there are 12 active AMA members on that council out of 24, plus a consultant from the Development Finance Corporation Ltd, a former  deputy  general manager of the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd, a National Country Party member of the Legislative Council of New South Wales and a director of country newspapers and television who, I think, is a relative of a prominent member of the National Country Party. There is another board member of the Development Finance Corporation, a director of companies, including Australian Fixed Trusts Ltd, Queensland division, and representatives of Queensland oil refineries, the National Bank of Australasia Ltd, City Mutual Life Assurance Society, Mutual Acceptance Limited Finance and an ex-Liberal member of the Tasmanian House of Assembly. They are the people who have been appointed by the medical members of the MBF to represent the average contributor. Therefore it is not surprising that the people who are running MBF are not taking a very great interest in it. I think that is one of the depressing things that it is being left to the general manager and to similar sorts of people who are concerned only with keeping going and having a huge turnover so that they can collect large salaries. 
For example, if one sees  Mr Cade  of MBF on television one realises just how loose he is with his facts. He will appear on television one night and say that 75 per cent of the people join at intermediate and private rates. The next night he will say that 90 per cent of the people join at the intermediate and private rates. As far as he is concerned 15 per cent is neither here nor there. Of course the other important thing is that he ignores the fact that the reason people have joined at intermediate and private rates in New South Wales and in most other States except 
Queensland is that there was a very strict means test for admission to hospitals. Unless one joined at the higher rate one was not covered when one went into hospital. 
I reiterate it is a scandal the way the health insurance funds have tried to mislead their contributors. The funds are not pointing out to the contributors that what they will offer them after 1 July is in fact completely unnecessary. It will be a contribution to the coffers of the funds and it will amount to nearly $2 per week per family. I urge all members of the House to go into their electorates and to point out to their constituents that it is completely unnecessary- as the Government of New South Wales pointed out in its advertisement last weekend- to keep medical insurance going after 1 July. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Acts administered by him allow for Government contributions for (a) capital expenditure; and (b) current expenditure to religious institutions. 
What are the details, including the names of recipient institutions, of these contributions, for each of the last three years. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statutory declaration by  Mr Robert  Mayne in 'The National Times' of 10 March 1975 that early in 1972 or late in 1971 he had been given 8 or 9 folders with ASIO material on individual citizens by  Mr Peter  Coleman, Liberal MLA and editor of 'Quadrant', and  Mr Ernest  O. Redford of ASIO for use in a forthcoming magazine for which  Mr Coleman  had registered the name "The Analysis '. 
Did  Mr Coleman,  former editor of 'The Bulletin', receive any of the ASIO documents of which 'The Bulletin' published portions in June and July 1974 and of which the Prime Minister released the titles and dates on 2 July 1974. 
Was  Mr Redford  the author of those documents. 
Has the Australian Government rendered, or learned of, other assistance to  Mr Coleman  in his work for 'The Bulletin ',' Quadrant ', or ' The Analysis '. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
Before the partial evacuation of Darwin after Christmas 1974, what was the total number of residents in the Northern Territory. 
What proportion of this number were Aborigines. 
What was the total number of police in the N.T., and what proportion of them were Aborigines. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that last night's Budget provides for a 23 per cent increase in expenditure on the part of the Australian Government in 1975-76 and an increase of 34.2 per cent in the distribution to the States, in addition to the Australian Government taking over other expeditures from the States, such as those for hospital services, has he received any messages of thanks from any of the Premiers so far today? 
-Before dealing with the main part of the proposition that I wish to raise here today I should like to comment on a sarcastic interjection that I made during the speech of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  when I referred to the low income per hour of surgeons. In case people took this remark to be my serious view I should like to refer to the fact that apparently at the wind-up meeting of Patrick Partners last Friday it was announced that a combine of Melbourne doctors were raising $2.5m to rescue Patrick Partners. So the professional incomes of those doctors seem to be reasonably good if they are prepared to go into that sort of extremely high risk investment. But the point I should like to deal with today- I have not raised it with the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  previously- deals with prescriptions. I shall ask the indulgence of the House to incorporate some tables in  Hansard  so as to enable me not to go into great detail in what I am saying. The tables are from the official journal of the Australian Department of Health, volume 25, for the third quarter of 1 975, under the heading of 'Pharmaceutical Benefits' and are at pages 42 and 43. 1 shall then refer to other tables. The table I should like to have incorporated in  Hansard  is table D on page 43. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Would it not help the position in East Timor and alleviate the fears of Indonesia if Portugal itself became a democracy? Will the Prime Minister use his good influence to encourage the establishment of a representative government in Portugal, including the Socialist Party which received the largest number of votes in the only elections held there? Will he discourage the military dictatorship by high officers who, for many years, happily served a fascist dictatorship and now call themselves Marxists- an insult to the memory of Karl Marx? 
-Before presenting my own argument on the Budget, I should like to deal with a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who has just resumed his seat. The honourable member for Lilley was kind enough, generous enough and honest enough to acknowledge the benefits of the Budget as far as the redistributive effects of the new system of taxation are concerned. Basically, he realises that this Budget has beneficial effects for the sort of people whom we ought to be looking after in society. A principle of social justice is involved and we are doing something about it. I would like to come back to that point in a minute. 
The other point I would like to deal with specifically which was raised by the honourable member for Lilley- it seemed to be a major point in his speech- was that he criticised the high taxation and the increase from 28c to 34c of the household income going into Government taxation of all forms. I realise that we can argue about priorities and where money ought to be spent but it is silly to treat money taken by taxation, by different forms of government, as if that money were being wasted. It is not money wasted. If it were, we could all go home. I am not referring only to honourable members on this side of the House but also to honourable members on the other side of the House because we do not need any government if we take that sort of line. There is hardly anything we do in this House which does not cost money. Money is expended on all our activities. It is a question of the people of Australia and the people who were elected by the community- I am referring to all members of this Parliament- deciding whether extra money ought to be collected and whether that money ought to be spent on certain things. 
What has happened, of course, under the Labor Government since it has come into power is that there has been a great increase in expenditure. People may decide that they prefer to keep that extra 5 or 6 per cent of expenditure which has gone to the Government and spend it themselves. But do not let us forget all the benefits to the people of Australia. There has been a fantastic increase in social security benefits. In other words, people no longer need to spend money themselves to the same extent to cover themselves for their old age. 
There was an increase in pensions before the newly announced rates of benefits which will come into force as a result of this Budget. Between December 1972 and June 1975 there was an increase of 80 per cent in the pension rate whilst the consumer price index increased by only 41 per cent. We have had a 1 10 per cent increase in the widow's class B pensions. We have had greatly increased payments for the unemployed, for children dependent on pensioners and children depending on the unemployed. We have allotted a $10 a week allowance for handicapped children. We now make at least part of the age pension available to those under 70 years of age, remembering that for those people over 70 years of age we have abolished the means test. In the case of the married couple under 70 years of age, they still receive some part of the age pension until their combined weekly income reaches $154.50. In the case of a single pensioner, part pensions are payable until the income reaches $92. 1 think those are important points. 
We have spent a large amount of money on education. We have provided free education in tertiary institutions. We may argue about whether that is worthwhile. I have some reservations about it. But do not let us just pretend that nobody gets any benefit from it and that the money goes to Canberra and disappears. If the money just came to Canberra and disappeared we would not have inflation. We spent extra money on health services. It is ridiculous to say that it is, in some way, terribly good for private enterprise and for the independence of the head of the household to spend money by paying it to medical benefits funds but if it goes into taxation to pay for Medibank there is something terrible about it. We can argue about it but it strikes me that it is not as rational as many of the other statements of the honourable member for Lilley. 
Let us get down to the general outlines of this Budget. I think the important features of this Budget are not to be found in the figure work. It is the attitude of the Government towards issues and policies expressed in this annual of the Budget and the other actions of the Government which that exercise symbolises which is important. The attitude reflected in this Budget is different from that which has been reflected in those previously presented from both sides of the House. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and the rest of Cabinet on the expenditure side- and especially the Treasurer, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the income side- have added greatly to their stature, I think, with this Budget. That is why this Budget has been called conservative on the one hand and radical on the other hand, whilst the Treasurer himself has said that he is taking the middle road. In the most difficult Budget of recent years, the Treasurer has quite openly and obviously striven to resolve the paradox of inflation and unemployment. Let us remember that it is a paradox as we understood economics only a few years ago. The Treasurer has striven to dispel the illusion that public goods, such as welfare and urban improvement, need not be paid for. We may still await the second coming, but the cargo cult is dead as far as this Government is concerned. 
Given the example set by the Treasurer, the crucial question following the Budget is what changes of attitude the Budget may inspire. Its consequences depend, more than anything else and more than in any previous Australian Budget, on the confidence and the expectations of businessmen, trade unions- especially their members- and of ordinary consumers, lobbyists and journalists. Beyond this, the Budget is on this occasion the instrument of reform- reform on the expenditure side because the consolidation upon which the Treasurer laid such heavy emphasis itself is a reform. At least it provides a breathing space for reform of expenditure plans and administrative structures. 
On the revenue side, the reform of the system of personal income tax has been overdue since the Commonwealth income tax was first introduced by Billie Hughes in 1915, since already then it incorporated many of the anachronisms and anomalies of the pre-existing State taxes. The Treasurer's weakness is one which must beset any treasurer of any Party, of any persuasion but the cargo cult. He must carry with him neither the social creditors nor the Malcolm Frasers but the country as a whole, if he is to restore business confidence, maintain employment and halt inflation. Honourable members opposite may criticise this aspect or that aspect of the Budget but there can be no doubt that the Treasurer is aware of his responsibilities. Let it also be clear that if the Treasurer is playing for high stakes with fortunes the outcome of this particular game depends not so much upon what he has done but upon what we, in our various capacities, will do and what our response will be. I think this is very important in the community because many of the disadvantages that have occurred in the economy are self-imposed and irrational. 
The Leader of the Opposition in his speech yesterday criticised the Government and said that savings were down. He obviously does not know anything about economics at all. At a time of fairly high inflation- inflation is still running at about 15 per cent- there is a record amount of deposits in savings banks in Australia. A record amount is going into savings banks each month. More than $200m is being added to savings banks deposits each month. People are depositing money and earning 3% per cent interest on which they have to pay tax yet inflation erodes that money at the rate of about 1 5 per cent. Their behaviour is completely irrational. We have figures which show that during the last 4 years since about 1 97 1-72 the proportion of disposable household income that has gone into savings has increased from about 9.7 per cent to nearly 17 per cent. That is quite extraordinary. It is irrational at a time of infltion but it is the behaviour of the people at the present time. I cannot explain it. I can see that people are scared and worried. Maybe that is the explanation for their actions. It is not as if they are badly off. Money is there. The people have got money in their own savings bank accounts but they are not spending it. 
One of the points that has been raised by almost every honourable member opposite who has spoken in this debate is unemployment. Much has been said both in this place and outside it about unemployment. Of course, it is a tragedy for those who are looking for work. The situation is ameliorated only by the unemployment benefits which, for adult married couples, we have increased by 140 percent since we came to office. For single persons the benefit has been increased but it is a variable amount depending on age. In the case of 16 to 18-year olds the increase has been as high as 380 per cent, but we have now stopped that particular rate of increase. However it is important to examine figures. I have extracted some figures from the seasonally adjusted figures issued by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. Let us examine the employment position. In May of this year- these are the latest figures available to me- 232 000 more people were working than in December 1972 when the number employed was 4 579 500. 
I ask the honourable member to wait. I am making an important point. In May last the total number employed was 4 811 500-an increase of 232 000 since December 1972. During the last 2 years of office of the previous Government- of which, for part of the time, the honourable member for Lilley was a Minister- there was an increase of only 130 000 in the number employed. Those years are now considered to have been boom times, but there was an increase of only 130 000 jobs in Australia then. 
It was fractionally less. In December 1970 the total number of people employed in Australia was 4 449 600. 
An increase of 130 000 in 5 000 000 represents a small percentage. Since then the number of people employed has increased by 232 000. By June 1974, during the first 18 months of the Labor Government, a total of 294 000 additional jobs were created in Australia compared with 130 000 during the last 2 years of the previous Government. Some of those people have lost their jobs- a significant number- and the total work force has decreased by about 62 000 since June 1974. The honourable member for Lilley made a point about savings on postage by cutting out unemployment benefits for people who are - 
I know the point that the honourable member made. He referred to the number of people who were unemployed. By how much would we have had to increase postal charges had we not received tax from the additional 232 000 people who have been employed since we came to power? My next point concerns the question of tax indexation. This is important. Whilst I would not expect many Opposition members to understand what tax indexation is all about, I would expect the honourable member for Lilley to understand it. Tax indexation means not that a person does not pay any income tax on the extra money he earns but that his rate of taxation does not increase. We have introduced this system to a large extent. If honourable members study the new tax schedule they will see that there is no increase in the tax rate of a person earning between $5,000 and $10,000 annually. If a person's salary increases in that particular range he pays no higher tax rate. If a person is earning between $10,000 and $15,000 he will not pay an increased marginal tax rate until his salary exceeds $15,000. These ranges cover probably more than 90 per cent of the population. 
-Yes, but the important point is that if a person works overtime and his income increases or his weekly average earnings increase as a result of an alteration to his award and his wage is between $150 and $170 a week he does not go into a higher tax bracket. He remains in the same tax bracket until his wage reaches almost $200 a week. The next increase in the tax rate is at $300 a week. I think this is an important point. It is unfair of the Opposition, if it really believes in trying to fix the economy of this country, which I suggest is in the interests of members from both sides of the House, to goad the unions into asking for higher wage increases by telling them that they are not getting tax indexation because, to a large extent, they are getting tax indexation. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  speaks piously about preserving us from the evils of communism and so forth. I am reminded that the other night when we were discussing the question of American bases the Opposition spent its time trying not to secure Australia's signature to the agreement but to persuade Government supporters who had reservations about that agreement to take action to prevent Australia from signing it. I think that is an irresponsible attitude for an Opposition to take. 
My next point concerns a matter mentioned by the honourable member for Lilley. He referred to the single income family with children, especially a large number of children. I point out that even the single income family with one or two children will be significantly better off as a result of this Budget. It is terribly important to consider this matter. People outside still do not understand what is happening because they do not know the difference between rebates and tax deductions. In tonight's Sydney  Sun  is prominently featured a letter from a person who complains that he used to be able to deduct $1,040 for his wife and 3 dependent children but now he will be able to deduct only $1,000. The point is that the $1,040 was deducted from his income before tax; now the $1,000 will be deducted from his tax, so there is a big benefit for such a person. It represents a benefit of between 25 per cent and 40 per cent. I rang the writer of that letter and explained the position to him. Incidentally, he resides in the electorate of Parramatta, so I took some trouble with him. 
I raise another point because I am not one of the cargo cult people. I believe Governments should be responsible in their spending and therefore ought to be prepared to justify the collection of taxation. The question of payments to the States annoys me. This year we will be paying 34.2 per cent more to the States whilst our own income will increase by only 23 per cent, yet the States still moan. Earlier this evening the members from cockies' corner were talking about how terribly the States are done by, even though their revenues will increase by 34.2 per cent and ours by 23 per cent. Cockies ' corner will never be satisfied. 
I conclude my views on this Budget by reading into  Hansard  part of an article written by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  in the  Financial Review  of Friday, 15 August. I commend him on this article. He wrote: 
AT this pre-Budget time of the year, the organisations in my electorate remember the existence of their Modest Member and send me telegrams and letters urging me to make certain that their particular interests are not jeopardised in the forthcoming Budget. 
The schoolteachers have been the most active this year because there have been strong rumours that the sacred education cow is going to be made to suffer a little and this has made her low piteously. 
The trouble is I am never certain whether she is more interested in the well-being of the children or the teachers. 
But other organisations have not been far behind. Road users want more money for roads, scientists more money for science, builders want more money for buildings and so on, without end. 
Then he has a go at honourable gentlemen from cockies' corner, and states: 
My farmers are not backward either. But they usually begin with a stern lecture about the need for courageous statesmanship at this critical time and the necessity of cutting down government spending. 
Having got this off their manly chests, they then ask for a subsidy on super and a $500m grant to assist the beef industry. 
He continues: 
When we are in Opposition it is very comfortable to be able at the beginning of a speech to criticise the Government for generally being profligate with their spending, and then, at the end, to criticise them for being lousy about education, or roads, or science and so on. 
That is important for all members of this House to remember that this is exactly what happens. 
-Anthony will be on the air at the next election as at the last election. He will have a 2 -part national telecast and radio broadcast. In the first quarter of an hour he will talk to the city people about government restraint. He will point out that there ought to be restraint on spending. In the second quarter of an hour, which is not broadcast in the city or telecast in the city but only goes to cocky stations, he will promise all the extra money that is to be spent on the cockies. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many unsewered homes were there in the principal urban areas of Australia at the latest date for which figures are available. 
How many people were living in these unsewered homes. 
(3) 

 - Mr Speaker, I should like to rephrase my earlier disallowed question. It is directed again to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to an attack on the new Budget measures in the  Sydney Morning Herald by 2  lecturers from the Law School of the University of New South Wales, alleging that the new tax scheme gives advantages to large families. They say that the plan provides great tax benefits to the family man with 3 children or more and that it is an invitation or acts as a direct inducement to parents with 2 children or more to go on and to 'proliferate with a vengeance' as they put it, with a third, fourth, fifth or sixth child and so on? Is it a fact that the new tax scheme will benefit parents of non-zero population growth families? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry who, I understand, is representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy in this House. How does the Minister explain the fact that ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd paid more for its crude oil supplies than its commercial competitors and yet the retail outlets supplied by ACTU-Solo are able to sell petrol for 12c to 16c a gallon less than their competitors? In considering any appeal from ACTU-Solo for more Australian crude, will he take the interests of consumers into account? 
I am tempted to reply to the sanctimonious speech by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  but I will not do so. I want to deal today mainly with hypocrisy on the part of New South Wales specialists with the introduction of the hospital side of Medibank. Just before I do that I would like to refer to the question of the pricing of oil and also ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd arising out of some the arguments that have been going on in this House, and outside it especially. May I reiterate what happens in Australia at the present time. Oil companies receive 70 per cent of their oil as indigenous crude at $2.50 a barrel or less. They receive 30 per cent of their oil as imported crude at $8.50 a barrel or thereabouts. The average cost works out at about $4.30 a barrel. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is accused of having bought Australian crude claiming that it was paying only $2.10 or $2.50 when it was- in fact paying $5.10. So the average cost to the ACTU was $5. 10 a barrel; to the other companies it is $4.30. Yet ACTU-Solo is able to retail petrol at about 14c a gallon less than the other companies. What a fantastic rip-off it must be on the part of the other companies to pay less for their oil yet charge so much more for their petrol. 
Now let me deal with another group of people in the community. Medibank was introduced into New South Wales on 1 October- yesterday and the specialists working at the present time as honoraries in New South Wales hospitals have declared that they will not come into the system on a sessional basis. Let us be quite clear because there has been so much hypocrisy and so much talked about that the average person in the community cannot follow. What has happened up until now? Specialists working at New South Wales public hospitals were honorary medical officers; that is, for treatment of their public patients they received no payment whatever. They were not able to charge the patient. They were not paid by the hospital. They received nothing for treating those patients. They were, of course, able to charge for their intermediate and private patients on a fee-for-service basis. 
Let us be quite clear about what happens now. For treating intermediate and private patients they will continue to be able to charge on a feeforservice basis. For their public patients- I repeat, for their public patients- instead of receiving nothing they will receive payment on a sessional basis coming to approximately $70 a session of 3Vi hours. The cost of that is estimated by the Government to be $70m a year. They will receive $70 a session for something for which they previously received nothing. They claim that the reason they do not want to take the $70 and want a fee-for-service system has nothing to do with the question of money but has to do only with their relationship with their patients. What relationship did they have with their public patients before? They saw the patient. In most instances they did not see the patient because they were requested to see him. They saw the patient because the patient presented himself at the hospital as a public patient, and they will continue to do so. If they performed some service for that patient, especially an operation, they were responsible for that operation, but if they were not on duty on the day when some complication arose they did not, in most cases, come to see that patient. If the patient was admitted on a Monday he was admitted under the surgeon on duty on the Monday; he was operated on on the Monday and if something happened on the Wednesday the surgeon on duty, the registrar or the senior medical officer saw that patient on the Wednesday. I assume that this will continue to happen. This also happened as far as private and intermediate patients were concerned, but there was a lot of pretence about this in that they were personal patients. 
Let us see what doctors are really complaining about. The New South Wales Health Commission in a conservative estimate has claimed that it would cost some 3 times as much, that is another $140m, if the specialists were paid on a fee-for-service basis. I think it could cost more than that. I think it is important to remember when the medical profession in New South Wales especially and in Australia generally attacks the Canadian system and says that the Canadian Medibank-type system is going broke, that doctors there are paid for public patients on a fee-for-service basis. It is therefore not surprising that the Canadian system is going broke. What would the average specialist- I will just give a few examples- expect to get instead of $70 or $80 a session, which is a period of  3¥i  hours, if he in fact were able to be paid on a feeforservice basis? Let us take some very common things that are done in hospitals. Let us take a curette. He would be entitled to receive a benefit of $39 a curette. If he were a gynaecologist he could in a  Vh  hours session, without working terribly hard, easily do half a dozen curettes and one hysterectomy, for which he would receive $186. The total amount he would receive would be $420. Therefore he is obviously in favour of being paid on a fee-for-service basis. Let- us remember that these patients have not turned up at the hospital because they wanted to be treated by  Dr X.  They have turned up at the hospital as public patients and therefore to my mind that doctor is not entitled to be paid on a feeforservice basis. 
Take doctors working as urologists. I used to work as an assistant in my days and at our hospital, for example, we used to do a dozen or more cystoscopies in a session. For each cystoscopy the urologist receives $33. He would receive something of the order of $400 for that number of cystoscopies, and it would not take him anywhere near  VA  hours. If he were doing appendectomies he certainly could easily do five in a  3Vi  hour session which at $98 for each appendectomy would add up to $490 a session. If he were doing tonsillectomies he could certainly do 7 tonsillectomies on children in that 356 hours and at $84 it would work out at $588 a session. It would certainly be true that this country could not afford Medibank if we let the medical profession be paid for public patients on a fee-for-service basis, and that is exactly what is happening in Canada. State governments, of course, are perfectly aware of this and are not prepared to bring in feeforservice payments. Consider what happens just for calling into a hospital if a doctor is entitled to charge a fee for service. For the first consultation with a consultant physician the Medibank refund is $29 and for subsequent consultations it is $14.50. Imagine the amount of money specialist physicians would be able to obtain if they saw just a few public patients. Suppose a couple of new patients were admitted since they were last at the hospital. The doctor would receive just under $60 for seeing them, and if there were another 10 patients in the hospital he would only have to check to see how they were going and he would be entitled to another $145. The doctor would be collecting about $200 and it would not take him anywhere near 2 hours to do that work. I think Medibank is providing the specialists in the medical profession with a lot of extra money. Pensioners now are able to see specialists in their rooms and the specialists are entitled, of course, to be paid on a fee-for-service basis. But we must not allow them to charge fee for service to their involuntary ' captive ' patients. 
Let us be quite clear of the situation in our minds when we are discussing Medibank unless we take the sort of attitude adopted earlier by the honourable member for Deakin when he was ordering free telephones for all pensioners. Apparently from his attitude, and his complaint that some married couples only had one telephone between them, he wants to give them 2 free telephones. He is being ridiculous in arguing that the Australian community can afford that sort of expenditure. 
On top of what I have said, and possibly more important even than the cost involved, is the temptation for the medical profession to carry out unnecessary work on public patients in hospitals in order to get such large amounts of money. The number of women who would be having curettes, the number who would be having cauterisations of their cervixes, the number of children who would be having tonsils out, would double and treble if Medibank was paying for them as public patients on a fee for service basis. 
I move: 
That this House notes with satisfaction higher standards of health insurance cover provided for all Australians through the introduction of Medibank. 
In speaking to this motion I shall address myself to an aspect of Medibank which often is not talked about but which to my mind, as a former medical practitioner, is nearly as important as some of the other aspects about which we talk. I think that any health care delivery policy which any government introduces into this country ought to have a number of objectives. I shall mention 2 important objectives, and I am not sure which is the more important of the two. One is that necessary medical services should be made available for everybody. In other words, there should be no discrimination on the basis of income or ability to pay. Everybody should be able to get necessary medical services. Secondly- and I think this is just as importantwe should improve health care. It is important that we improve health care as much as possible in this country. I think that if the only aim of the Government were to improve the payment of medical practitioners and the giving of refunds to patients, then we could argue about some of the aspects of Medibank. 
An important aspect of Medibank with which I would like to deal in a minute is the second matter I have mentioned. The aim of Medibank is important in this area. What has changed since Medibank was introduced? Firstly, the patients, the people of Australia, no longer have to contribute to health insurance schemes. Health insurance schemes cost different amounts in different States. Basically, they were much more expensive in all States except Queensland because Queensland had a free hospital service. They cost somewhere between $3 and $5 a week for a family. Yet they were subsidised to a very large extent by the taxpayers of Australia. I have no objection to that. That was the position until 1 July this year when Medibank came in. From then on, in the case of medical services, everybody in Australia has been covered. There is no need for people now to take out any cover from private health insurance organisations as far as medical expenses are concerned. The maximum a member can receive is the extra 15 per cent with a maximum of $5 for any service. It seems pointless for families to pay something of the order of $ 1 .80-plus a week to receive a maximum refund of $5 for any medical service. 
Medibank has made specialist medical services available to pensioners, people who were previously covered by the pensioner medical service. They are now able to attend specialist physicians or specialists of any kind for consultation. They do not have to attend the outpatients department of a hospital as they had to in the past. I think that is an improvement. It may be an expensive improvement but, nonetheless, it is an improvement. I think, generally speaking, apart from saving the $1.80 in actual payments there has not been much change as far as the medical services of Australia are concerned in relation to refunds, etc. 
Let us come to the hospital part of Medibank which now has come in, I think, in every State. I am not sure about Queensland but I think that the last State to come in, on 1 October, was New South Wales- about a week or so ago. It is not so very important whether Queensland comes in or not because Queensland already had provided all the facilities that I will be talking about. What happened previously? People who had to go into hospital in most Australian States were subject to a means test. If a person was above a certain income he was unable to enter hospital as a public patient or a standard ward patient, whatever terminology was used in the particular State. He had to go in as an intermediate patient or as a private patient, or enter a private hospital. If a person entered as a public patient in a public hospital the doctor concerned received no payment. The doctor was not entitled to charge for treatment of that patient. He was not entitled to render an account either to the hospital or the patient. That applied in the vast majority of cases but there were some exceptions for very rare specialties. 
That situation obviously could not continue along those lines once the means test was removed. It would be ridiculous for doctors to provide free services to public patients in public hospitals if there was no means test on the people who entered public wards. Therefore there is the proposal for sessional fees for doctors attending patients who choose to go into hospital as public patients. 
I thank the honourable member for Murray for his interjection and I will deal with it. I think that the reply that most honourable members on this side of the chamber would give to him would be the cost involved. As the Australian Medical Association continually points out, there is a tremendous cost involved in paying fee for service for public patients in Canada. I think that is an important point but it is not necessarily the most important point and I would like to deal with it in a minute or two. It would be extremely expensive. The New South Wales Government has estimated that another $150m, for example, would be necessary to pay doctors at a fee for service rate rather than at the sessional fee rate. I think that that probably is an underestimate because it was based on doctors' fees some 1 8 months or 2 years ago. 
-That was for New South Wales only if the basis of payment was fee for service. There is another important point, one which I have raised before in this House and which some of the other medical practitioners in this House have raised, although it is not generally discussed among the populace at large. It is the question of the possibility and, I suppose more importantly, the likelihood of unnecessary surgery and unnecessary procedures being performed on people if there is an inducement for medical practitioners to perform particular kinds of procedures. I do not think medical practitioners consciously perform unnecessary operations. Obviously there would be some who would do so but the vast majority of medical practitioners do not get up in the morning and say: 'I lost $200 at the races yesterday so I have to do 2 extra appendectomies'. I do not think that that is the way they look at it. What I suggest is that there is a subconscious but significant difference in the number of operations or surgical procedures performed on patients if there is a financial inducement to do so. 
I would like to cite some figures from the United States of America. We do not have figures for Australia but I am sure that basically they would be similar. Some work was done some years ago by  Dr Lawson  who at the time, I think, was Superintendent of the Footscray Hospital in Melbourne and he got similar results. The figures I want to quote were published in the New York Times on 21 September 1975. They deal specifically with hysterectomies, the removal of the uterus, but I would like to extend them to other types of surgery. The point I am trying to make is that it is important to reduce unnecessary procedures, especially operations. The article I refer to states, amongst other things: 
I accept that that is one of the possibilities, and that is why it is preferable to have 2 alternative schemes running side by side. The patient has the choice of joining the sort of scheme that is provided under fee for service or the scheme that is provided under non-fee for service, such as sessional payments or the Kaiser Permanente scheme. That should be available. It will be available in Australia not necessarily in the exact form to which I referred. If a person wants to take the risk of a medical practitioner performing unnecessary operations on him or his family he should maintain his intermediate ward hospital cover and go into hospital as an intermediate patient. If he does not want to run that risk he should go in as a public ward patient. 
As I said earlier in reply to an interjection, I would like to see the Kaiser Permanente type of system introduced into Australia as an alternative so that people can make a judgment. I am not sure whether lay people can make that judgment accurately, but I suppose that in the long run the market place is as good a place as any other forjudging it. People will be given a choice between the alternative systems. The costs will be very different. Obviously, if one group of doctors do not look after their patients and do not put them into hospital when they really need hospitalisation the people will transfer to the alternative scheme. By the way, in America there is no evidence of that happening. If one looks at the figures for the Kaiser Permanente system one finds that it is growing rapidly. In the United States it now has some 13 million contributors. 
-What is built into Medibank is that people no longer have to cover themselves for intermediate or private ward treatment. Therefore, in a sense, they are being encouraged financially to go in as public patients. The first point is that there is no longer a means test, and the second point is that it costs a person extra money to provide himself with intermediate ward cover. So I hope that more people will go in as public patients. There will be fewer patients on whom doctors will have the incentive to perform operations. Whether or not this works out we will see over the next year or two. 
-That is not true. The point is that at least we have given people an alternative. Before 1 July, with the exception of those in Queensland, people were not given an alternative. Let us be quite clear on that. If a person earned a relatively low income he was means tested out of the system of public ward treatment. Many people in the community misunderstand what happens in the so-called intermediate ward services and public ward services. I think that if I were seriously ill I would prefer to be treated in hospital as a public patient and receive the sort of attention that a public patient receives. If I were not terribly ill I might like to have a telephone by my side, a television set and visitors all day. If I were recovering or wanted a rest, I might prefer to be a private ward patient. The important thing is that at that stage I would no longer be very concerned about the medical care I was receiving. 
I have had sick children. When my own children have been ill and have been admitted to a children's hospital in Sydney, for example, I have preferred them to be in the big wards with the public patients. It was impossible to do that before because of the means test position. In those wards there are sisters, nurses and resident medical officers continuously on hand. Because of means testing the children were put into small wards in the private section of the hospital where the sisters or nurses could not see them all the time. Nothing went wrong, but at odd times when the child was really ill one felt the need to employ a special sister to look after the child because of the worry that they would not be able to cope. 
I have taken this matter seriously. I hope that other honourable members who participate in the debate will try to take it seriously rather than treating it as a straight-out political argument, because it is important that we provide the best kind of medical service and that we do not give in, for political reasons, to the surgeons in the different States who want to continue, for unsound reasons, fee for service. We must give the Australian population a choice of being treated as public ward patients, knowing that their doctor has no financial incentive to perform an unnecessary procedure, or intermediate ward patients for a relatively small difference in cost. 
-I realise that we are in a hurry. I wish to make 2 points very quickly. The first point does not specifically concern the legislation. I refer to the transfer of control of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to the office of Prime Minister. I put on record my reservations about a Premier or a Prime Minister being in charge of any police force. This is a point that I have made before and which the Council for Civil Liberties has also made before. I remind honourable members of what happened in New South Wales in the 1950s when the control of the police force was transferred from the Minister in charge of that force to the Premier. The difficulty that arose was that criticism of the Premier is regarded as involving a question of no confidence. 
I think that ASIO ought to be prepared to take criticism. It is a very powerful organisation. It can be a most unpleasant organisation with which to have dealings. I think that it is necessary. It is extremely important that, in a political sense, criticisms of ASIO are not treated necessarily as being attacks on the Government. The organisation can be wrong. There is no necessity for the whole of the weight of a government to be used to defend ASIO or a police force against what may be legitimate criticism, as happened in New South Wales. 
To deal with my second point, I refer to clause 5 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, which provides: 
The appointment of a Judge as Director, or service of a Judge as Director, does not affect the tenure of his office as a Judge or his rank, title, status, precedence, salary, annual or other allowances or other rights or privileges as the holder of his office as a Judge, and for all purposes his service as Director shall be taken to be service as the holder of his office as a Judge. 
The difficulty that I see relates to the Standing Orders of this House. Standing order 75 provides that members may not criticise judges or members of the judiciary, unless a special motion of disapproval is carried. I can see difficulties arising. I would hope never to see a situation in this House in which we could not criticise the head of ASIO. That person is a public servant. Criticism ought to be able to be directed at him as it is at other public servants. Criticism of the head of ASIO should not be prevented in this House because that head is a judge who has been transferred to that position. I seek some assurance from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  when he replies that the Government is aware of these matters. 
-In dealing with Social Services Bill (No. 3), I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table of increases in social security benefits since October 1 972. 

<graphic href="097131197510222_27_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510222_27_1.jpg"></graphic>

-Firstly, I should like to reply to some of the propositions put up by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  not necessarily in the order of importance but in the order in which I have noted them down. One of the important things to remember is that the table which I have just had incorporated in  Hansard  shows very large increases in social security payments. I shall go into more detail in a few minutes. But if we look overall at the age, invalid and widows' pensions, we will find that in the last financial year that the previous Government was in power, the amount allocated for pensions was of the order of $900m-plus and in this current financial year, under this Government it will be of the order of $2,800m. This is a huge increase. It is a 3-fold increase in this period. It is due not only to the large increases in actual payments to people, but to new categories being admitted for payment and so on. 
I should like to deal with one of the first points that the honourable member for Hotham made. He criticised our decision not to increase unemployment benefits for single persons under 18 years of age. 
-The honourable member noted it. Let us look at it the other way round. The reason he gave was that we were running out of money and were trying to save money. Let me make it quite clear that I do not support that proposition. I was one of those on this side of the 
House who strongly supported an increase in unemployment benefits for those over 18. The view I held was that if unemployment benefits of $38.50 a week were paid to single persons under the age of 18 years, there would be very little incentive for those people to try to find employment. I think that the opposite argument obviously is also valid, that is, that the young person who does not live at home and who is genuine in looking for employment may well need just as much money as the person who is over 18 years of age. But it did strike me as being unfair and contrary to the overall policy of this Government that we should pay equal amounts to those under 18 years and over 18 years even thought I admit that the 1 8 years of age barrier is quite an arbitrary one. However, I would defend the decision that was made even if there were a surplus of money available on the ground that people should be encouraged to find work. One of the difficulties in raising the benefit for people under 18 years is that young people would be encouraged to leave school because if they attend school their parents are entitled only to 50c a week child endowment. If they leave school they are entitled to $36 a week unemployment benefit. I do not think that that is a good idea. 
The honourable member for Hotham then turned to the general argument as to moving the relationship of pensions or benefits in general away from average weekly earnings to the consumer price index. I support that move. The last increase in average weekly earnings for the June quarter was 1 . 1 per cent. The increase in the consumer price index for the same quarter was something of the order of 3.6 per cent. Therefore pensioners and other beneficiaries are better off by having their pensions related to the consumer price index. But in any case this argument about the 25 per cent of average weekly earnings becomes fallacious because the average weekly earnings are defined as the seasonlly adjusted average weekly male earnings for Australia. This gives us a wrong figure. The average weekly earnings during the June quarter even in New South Wales where they are relatively high, were something of the order of $146 a week. Yet the seasonally adjusted figure was $152 a week. If we want to relate beneficiaries' incomes to average weekly earnings because we want to relate those incomes to what the average person in the community is able to spend, then I think we should not correct them on the basis of seasonal adjustment. The average male in the community was not getting $ 1 52 a week but was getting only $146 odd in New South Wales. This is quite apart from the fact that the figures are corrected for average weekly male earnings. Whilst in theory male and female earnings in Australia are now equal, there is still a significant difference between average weekly male earnings and average weekly female earnings. Of course the vast majority of aged pensioners are females. 
I wish to make a point on the question of unemployment. What I have to say relates to unemployment benefits. The honourable member for Hotham performed in the way that most honourable members on the Opposition side perform and emphasised and re-emphasised what he called the huge amount of unemployment in Australia. There is a relatively large amount of unemployment in Australia, but let us be quite clear as to what the figure really is. Do not let us bandy about figures of 400 000 and so on. The latest figure for persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service was of the order of 245 000. It is accepted that about onequarter of the people registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service in fact are not unemployed. These people are looking for another job, a second job or an alternative job. Even with respect to that figure, let us look at what has happened in the period of more than 216 years that this Government has been in power. There are now 232 000 more persons employed in Australia than there were in December 1972. There has been an increase of actual people employed of 232 000. A large number of different categories has come into the work force. During the last 2 years of Liberal Government the increase in the number of persons employed was 130 000. If the increases in the number of jobs available had continued at the rate at which it did under the Liberal Government, when we came to office, there would have been 100 000 less jobs for people as a part of the work force. That is the point I am making. Therefore, when honourable members look at figures for unemployed people, what has happened is this: Many persons where not really employed until 1972. They joined the work force- many of them were women- during the first 18 months or so of the term of this Government. Then a proportion of them lost their jobs. They then added to the unemployed figure. They were never counted as unemployed under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Therefore the outcome, to my mind, is biased employment and unemployment figures. 
The honourable member for Hotham referred to his own policy which he unveiled last Monday. I make the point that he referred to what we have done as band aid measures. I suggest that his policy consists not even of a band aid approach but of soothing noises. The honourable member talks about a guaranteed minimum income because that is one of the concepts that people talk about these days. He does not refer to a guaranteed minimum income for everybody. He refers to guaranteed minimum income only for people in certain categories: People who are unemployed, people who are over a certain age, people who are invalid pensioners and people who are sick. I do not necessarily disagree with this proposition because I can see very great difficulties in having guaranteed minimum incomes for everybody in the community. I would not like to be a member of the Government Party defending that proposition at the time it is introduced. It may well be introduced. But I think that there will be many anomalies and it will be so difficult to defend those anomalies, that the proposal will be extremely difficult to introduce. The honourable member for Hotham claimed that the newspaper editorial writers supported him in his objective of guaranteed minimum income for people who are already in certain categories. All it means is that the newspaper editorial writers do not know what they are talking about. We have guaranteed minimum incomes now for people in those categories. That is what pensions and benefits are all about. They are guaranteed minimum incomes for persons who qualify for certain categories. The honourable member for Hotham is not introducing anything new at all. He gives what presently applies a new name. 
I refer again to the table which I had incorporated in  Hansard  at the beginning of my speech, I wish to make a few points on it. The obvious fact is that we have increased social security benefits at a very fast rate since we have been in government. We have abolished the means test on all those over the age of 70. If we exclude the extra increase that will result from the passage of this legislation, the single rate pension for invalids and aged and widowed pensioners has been increased by 80 per cent between December 1972 and June 1975 from $21.50 a week to $36 per week. The married rate pension has increased from $37.50 a week to $60 per week, which is an increase of 74 per cent. This is during a period when the total increase in the consumer price index was 44.7 per cent. 
AH pensioners have benefited from this Government's actions. Former Class B widows have had an increase of 1 10 per cent. The Labor Government has brought in a supporting mother's benefit. Payments for children dependent on pensioners, unemployed and the sick have been increased significantly. Parents of handicapped children now receive a $10 a week allowance. Pensioners over the age of 70, as I pointed out, are now no longer subject to a means test. The means test for those under the age of 70 has been eased considerably. Married couples now receive at least some pension until their combined weekly income reaches $154.50. In other words, it is only when their combined weekly income exceeds average weekly earnings that they stop receiving any pension. In the case of single pensioners part pensions are payable until the weekly income reaches $92 per week. Pensions will improve by another $2.75 a week for the single rate and $4.50 a week for the married rate from November, provided the Senate stops its present mode of behaviour. 
The honourable member for Hotham went through many of the benefits that we are increasing. Listening to him I felt that it was almost as if he was responsible for increasing the benefits. I am not surprised that he believes in them. But it is a little peculiar that he seems to be taking credit for them. Let us be quite clear: We have to go out in the community and defend taxation and increased charges of all kinds so that we can provide those increased benefits. The Opposition's position is that it applauds the increased benefits, emphasises them as though they resulted from its actions and then attacks us for increased taxation charges. I suppose that is one of the benefits of being in Opposition. 
One of the points that is worth re-emphasising is that the proposed increase of $2.75 a week for single rate pensions to apply in 10 days' time will maintain for pensioners the improvements in spending power that have been achieved by them since the Labor Government came to office. 
With the proposed increase the standard rate of pension will have been increased by almost 94 per cent since December 1972 for single people and by 87 per cent for a married couple. By comparison, in the period from June 1972 to June 1975 the CPI, as I said earlier, has increased by only 44.7 per cent and the seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings have increased by only 61 percent. 
Another point that is worth re-emphasising is just what will happen to the means test after the introduction of this new pension. The Labor Government faces a lot of argument about the abolition of the means test and the limit of income which precludes payment of a pension to single persons without children or property which affects his pension. Let us remember that they may have their own house and car and personal chattels which do not affect the rate of pension. The rate will be increased by twice the amount of the pension increase to $97.50 a week. So, single persons will be able to receive a part pension until their weekly income exceeds $97.50. On the other hand, other than the exempt property to which I have referred, they can have property up to a value of $51,100 and still receive a part pension. For a married couple without children the equivalent limits of income and property will be $163.50 a week and $85,840 in property respectively. I think that, if people were aware of these limits for pensions as far as the means test is concerned, there would be less fury on the part of some of those who are arguing for the complete abolition of the means test. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Hotham and, I suppose, the Opposition as a whole for their statement last Monday. They did not commit themselves to the abolition of the means test at any particular time but just talked about it as a 'when practicable' type of proposition. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Government and the Department of Social Security for bringing about all these advances. The present Minister for Social Security,  Senator Wheeldon,  and the previous Minister for Social Security, Bill Hayden, who is now the Treasurer, worked very assiduously in persuading the Government as a whole- the Cabinet- to bring about these extra benefits. I think the whole of Caucus has always been completely in favour of these extra benefits. If we have a number of major reasons for being in this Party and for aiming to be in government I think one of the major ones, possibly the major one, is to help those people out in the community who are unable to help themselves. I am therefore very proud about what we have done in a period of more than 2'/5&gt; years that we have so far been in office. 
I appeal to members of the Opposition to have a word with their colleagues in the Senate to persuade them to pass this legislation so as to enable the payment of these extra benefits from the beginning of next month and to have a word with their Senate colleagues to remove the general obstacles which they put in the way not only of the actual amounts but of the method of payment. It is ridiculous for an Opposition to block Supply in the way in which this Opposition is doing it at the present time with the result that the persons who have to interview the applicants for social security benefits and the people who have to mail the cheques will themselves not be paid. They cannot be paid because of a quite ruthless attempt by one person to become the Prime Minister and I think an equally ruthless attempt by a large number of people on the Opposition front bench who are supposed to be the leaders of the Opposition trying to better themselves very significantly by becoming Ministers and not being prepared to wait until the normal time to fight an election during the next 1 8 months or so. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has the withdrawal of the North Korean diplomatic mission anything to do with the failure of the North Korean Government to pay for goods imported from Australia? Has it owed money to some of our exporters for a long time ? Will the Minister take this opportunity to warn our exporters not to send goods to North Korea without previously having received payment from it? 
Has the Attorney-General completed and submitted to the Australian Electoral Officer, New South Wales, Form G (Return of Electoral Expenses) as required under section 152 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act for the 1975 election? Did he complete this form after the 1 974 election? If not, will he consider launching a prosecution and stand down from the Ministry in the meantime? 
-Mr Lucock,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I should like to join in congratulations to you on your election to your office, and to express my surprise at your being re-elected to Parliament. Having been in your electorate and having seen what you have done for the electorate over the last eight or ten terms that you have been returned, it was certainly a surprise to me. 
I should be pleased if you would convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his election to the Speakership. If it had not been for the events early last year,  Mr Snedden  would now be the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  would now occupy the office of  Speaker,  I assume. The media and the jackalsthe people on the other side led by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)-  destroyed  Mr Snedden  when, in my opinion, he was down but certainly not out following attacks by the then Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  But I think the main job was done by the Press. On 8 March last year the  Sydney Morning Herald- I  think it was only a few days before  Mr Snedden  was displaced as Leader of the Liberal Party- published a letter I had written, which amongst other things said: 
While it is not my job to defend  Mr Snedden  I do object to the spectacle of the media joining in the crucifixion of a person who is down and then wondering what the reason is for his all-time low in his public opinion poll. 
I think it is important for all parliamentariansthose who have been elected recently and those of us who have been here for some time- to be aware of what the Press can do to one and for one. I think that  Mr Snedden,  the now  Speaker,  and the now Leader of the Opposition for that matter, are aware of what the Press can do to any of us, especially those who hold high office in this Parliament. All of us should take heed that the media will destroy, or at least try to destroy, any politicians who are down. They enjoy the sport of kicking people who are down. My favourite summary of journalists and their masters is in a verse which I remember seeing published in  Honi Soit,  the Sydney University newspaper, many years ago. I do not usually remember many verses- I still cannot remember 'God Save The Queen'- but the verse goes something along the lines: 
You cannot hope to bribe or twist, 
Thank God, the British journalist. 
But seeing what the man will do, 
Unbribed, there's no occasion to. 
I think it is an important point for us to remember. I assume that the feelings of  Mr Snedden,  the now  Speaker,  could be summarised, after the terrible fall he had last year and when he was not appointed to the Ministry, by saying that reincarnation has come as a pleasant surprise. 
In speaking to the Address-in-Reply, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  claimed that members of the Opposition had not read the Governor-General's Speech. I certainly have. I congratulate the Governor-General on making the present position in Australia quite clear. In the first 3 paragraphs of his Speech last week he called the Fraser Government 'my Government' three times and he continued to emphasise the 'my' throughout the Speech. I think that is important. I do not want to go into the allegations and the suggestions of why the Governor-General acted in the way he did. My personal belief is that the reasons were at least partly psychological and I think they are more appropriate for - 
No. I believe that the reasons are more appropriate for argument at parties or in hotels or in clubs than in this place now. I do not agree with those people who blame the Central Intelligence Agency, those who blame the Governor-General's previous alleged political views or blame the fact that he received $30,000 more for his private house after 11 November than was offered before then. Until I get more evidence I think those are not the real reasons. I believe the real reasons were mainly psychological. Because of that, I do not think that even the Governor-General himself could give the full reasons even if he wanted to. What the Australian community would like to know, and I think is entitled to know, is: Did  Sir John  ever make it clear to  Mr Whitlam  that his Government would be dismissed if he refused to call a double dissolution? If not, why not? Were  Mr Fraser  or any of his colleagues given prior information which was withheld from the Labor side? Those are the points on which we are entitled to get information from the GovernorGeneral or from any other person who may be able to give it. 
-I am glad that the honourable member has spoken to the GovernorGeneral and has been told that. Going further into the Speech and the outline of the policies of the new Government, I think it would be fair to say that the Government's slogan seems to be: 'Eliminate Government waste no matter what it costs'. It has appointed many committees already to decide which committees should be eliminated. The Speech shows that the Government talks big about the committees we had and how it will abolish all of them. In the Speech, in which I take it the Government mentions only the most important committees, the Government already mentions that it has already appointed an Administrative Review Committee, a committee to investigate proposals for a rural bank and a farm income reserve fund, State and industry and Commonwealth advisory bodies which will review means of strengthening the Australian Shippers Council, an economic consultative group- that is not a committee, it is a group- a proposed tripartite national consultative council in the industrial relations area, the Marine and Ports Council and the Transport Industries Advisory Council. An advisory council on intergovernmental relations and a joint Federal and Northern Territory Legislative Assembly committee will be set up; a task force has been established to make recommendations on Australian Capital Territory reserve powers; a review has been established on the income security system as a whole; committee has been established to investigate the possibility of expanding the area of choice in services available to the disadvantaged; a Medibank review committee has been established; a tertiary education commission is proposed; a committee has been established to investigate how to run and re-establish the cadet corps on the cheap; a Defence Council has been established and an investigation has been set up to examine the completion of  HMAS Stirling  in Cockburn Sound. Six consultative committees have been established in every State to consult with migrant communities. I notice by the way that the Government will co-operate with States and migrant communities in disseminating ethnic languages. I wonder what other kinds of languages there are. I suppose that the committee will not investigate Latin or Ancient Greek; they will investigate only ' ethnic ' languages. It is an interesting point. Those are the sorts of things to which the GovernorGeneral referred in his Speech. It is not surprising that he finished up by saying: 
I now leave you in the faith that Divine Providence will always guide your deliberations and further the welfare of the people of Australia. 
I think that Divine Providence is all that the Government has to rely on. It is interesting to note that when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced peremptorily that the royal commissions would be terminated at fixed dates and found out that he was not able to do that because it was illegal, he then apologised and promptly set up a committee of inquiry to find out who was at fault in allowing him to overlook the relevant law. He set up another committee. 
I should like to refer to what I consider to be one of the main issues facing this government or any other government in the field of social security. I have been interested in that field and I have been chairman of the previous Government's social welfare committee for the last 3 years. I realise that there are great difficulties involved. The Governor-General's Speech makes that point. He said: 
As pan of this approach the Government will place great emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need. 
I think the words 'those in real need' are important. I hope that the Government will direct its welfare assistance to those people. I note that in an interview that the Prime Minister gave to Allen Barnes and which was published in the  Age  of 1 3 February, he said: 
What I would like to add to that- 
He was speaking about the abolition of the means test is that the further you take the abolition of the means test, the less you have a capacity to provide really for those who are in need. 
He again says later: 
That doesn't alter our long-term position, but they are conscious of the fact that it is harder to look after those in real need if payments go to everyone whether they have a requirement for it or not. 
It is interesting when one hears the Prime Minister coming out with such statements, of which I highly approve and which sound fairly idealistic, that he then goes on to announce that the first big extra costed benefit will be the superphosphate bounty. It is not restricted to those in need. The greatest beneficiaries of fertiliser subsidies are the farmers with the largest areas of crops and improved pastures. These happen to be Australia's wealthiest farmers, including  Mr Fraser  himself. They are least in need of assistance. The Prime Minister gets over $5,000 a year in phosphate subsidy. Nor do fertiliser subsidies discriminate between commodities for which markets do or do not exist. Thus affluent wheat and sugar growers now receiving good prices will get a hand-out which they do not need whilst depressed beef and dairy producers will be encouraged to boost output of products they cannot sell. So much for the selectivity that the Prime Minister quite justifiably talks about! 
I think that when one deals with policy questions in the field of social security one has to pay tribute to the Department of Social Security and also, to my mind, to the Social Welfare Commission which was set up by the previous Government. I think there was a certain lovehate relationship between outside authorities which are supposed to give advice and the Government which does not always like to get specific advice. The present Government has now announced it will abolish the Social Welfare Commission. This requires an Act of Parliament and undoubtedly we will get another chance to speak about it. But I think it is important to draw the attention of parliamentarians, especially the new parliamentarians, to some of the questions that are raised in this sort of issue. One of the questions- it may be marginal but it is none the less important- relates to the Government setting up an outside commission, and authority to advise. The Government calls for applications from people who wish to serve on that commission. It then appoints one of the applicants on, let us say a five-year or seven-year basis. That person gives up his or her job and goes on to that commission on the understanding that it is an institution which the Government has set up and that he or she will have a job for that period. If, as has happened in the case of many commissions, the staff were previously members of the Public Service, university staff members or judges, they were able to return to their jobs. Those people got leave of absence from the judiciary, the university or the Commonwealth Public Service, and when the commission was disbanded they were able to get their jobs back. But if people were not able to do so, they are in a difficult position. For example, the Government proposes to abolish the Social Welfare Commission and therefore  Mrs Marie  Coleman, who is the  Chairman  of that Commission, as I understand it, is left without any sort of recourse against the Government. She was not a public servant before nor was she in any of the other classifications. Apart from any injustice to her, it is quite obvious to me- there is a long-term principle involved- that there will be no applications for this sort of positions from outside by the people who are not guaranteed return to their previous jobs because they would be worried that suddenly, by change of government, they would lose their jobs. The most important aspect of the Social Welfare Commission, which I would have thought would appeal to the present Prime Minister and the people behind him- it certainly appeals to me, although I do not share many of the Government's views, but I hold the view, and I am glad that the Government at least expresses the view- that it is important for the welfare dollar or whatever it might be calledthis applies not only to welfare but to education and health etc.- to be spent in the most efficient and the most appropriate manner. We need outside independent groups, apart from government departments, which will advise or at least comment on the issues. People can be taken from other government departments, as the present Government has done in the case of the Medibank Review Committee, to give some opinion; but I think that it is also important to have outsiders give an opinion. I think that the Social Welfare Commission did a lot of policy analysis work and I think that work is one of the most important aspects of the Commission. 
I have in front of me 2 documents which I will not have time to deal with in any sort of detail but on which I hope to have the opportunity to speak at some later stage. One is in the form of a speech by  Mrs Marie  Coleman which deals with priorities in social welfare; the other is a social policy reference paper which also includes all the other Social Welfare Commission publications, of which there are many. I hope that new members to this House will have a look at some of them and see the sorts of issues involved. Many people get into politics and just see the issues as responding to pressure from their constituents or from some constituents who feel they have been badly treated. Obviously this is one of our main jobs, but in the long term if we want to influence governments, if we want to bring about a reasonable distribution of finance that is available to the Government, we have to have some ideology, some view of alternatives. 
Two of the alternatives that  Mrs Coleman  mentioned- I was going to go into them in more detail this afternoon but I will not now- are 2 fundamental questions which I shall summarise as being cash versus services and universalism versus selectivism. Basically what cash versus services amounts to is whether we help people by giving them bigger pensions, by giving them more money in their pockets, which I think is attractive, or offer them actual services. There is a significant argument there, but obviously there is not enough time to go into it. However just what we do about that is a very important matter, and one which is not easily solved. Whether we rely on the market place, as happened for example with regard to Medibank, where people can go to any doctor they want and the Government refunds all or a proportion of the money that is required to pay the medical practitioner, or whether we provide services such as community health centres and so on, is basically the question in cash versus services; it is an important question for any government. The other question is that of universalism versus selectivism. As I said earlier, this question was raised by the Prime Minister in an interview with Allan Barnes. Apparently the Prime Minister changed his mind. I did not know his views before, but he has implied in the way that he has answered questions that he has had a change of mind. I support him in his change of mind. 
It is very attractive to be able to say that we do not want means tests, stigmas and so on attached to social welfare payments and that therefore we opt for universalism. It is important to know that under universalism cash and services that are provided must be limited. They are limited by the fact that a limited amount of money is available. We always talk about people not wanting to pay high taxation for this sort of insurance but I think they are reasonably happy about paying tax if it can be shown that people who receive the tax are in real need. That is the important thing. The question of selectivism obviously brings in some sort of means test. It does not matter what you call it, whether it is a means test or whether it is another test such as whether a person is handicapped and so on. If the Government is going to give something to everybody all over Australia, if, for example, it is going to provide child care services all over Australia, it will be terribly expensive, but if it can be argued that such things should be provided only in certain geographical areas or to certain disadvantaged families - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before I call the honourable member for Calare I remind the House that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. 
I do not wish to detain the House for any length of time tonight, but I should like to raise 3 matters, although not necessarily in the order of priority that I would give them. Last Tuesday, included amongst many silly and pretentious performances in this House and its surroundings, there were a series of motions of condolence for recently deceased Prime Ministers, Premiers and Heads of State in Nigeria, China and Malaysia. As I had done earlier that day, in the morning and in the afternoon, I absented myself because I had significant reservations about two of the people concerned. I think that the House at some stage has to make a decision on why we go through the motions of making speeches and praising people after their death when we have disagreed with their policies during life. We go through the pretence of standing etc. and observing their passing. I noted with pleasure that General Franco, who also had died during the period, was not mentioned in the condolences. Probably only one honourable member, the honourable member for the Western Australian seat of Swan  (Mr Martyr),  would like to move a special condolence motion for him. I note in tonight's Press that the Head of State for North Korea, Kim II Sung, is alleged to be very ill and I hope he will get the same treatment in this House as General Franco received and for the same reasons. I appeal to the House to think about this proposition. We do not have to get up and pretend that every Head of State was a very worthwhile person. Most Heads of State are the opposite, and extremely so. Surely many of us would say good riddance to them. 
The next matter I wish to raise is that of social service payments for former German citizens in Australia, specifically citizens of West Germany. The position at present is what it has been for a long time and that is that Australian citizens who formerly had German nationality do not receive social service payments from Germany to which they would otherwise have become entitled. In other words if a person comes to Australia but remains a German citizen he is entitled to certain social service payments depending on the time that he contributed in that country. If such a person accepts Australian citizenship he no longer is entitled to those payments. I think most honourable members would argue that this is extremely unfair. Possibly it could have been argued that there was some justification for it in the days when we ceased paying social security benefits, for example old age pensions or invalid pensions, to our citizens or to people eligible for such payments when they went overseas. 
In 1973, quite early in the term of office of the Whitlam Government, we changed that rule. Now we pay pensions to anybody, wherever they live, provided they became eligible for them while living in Australia. I hope that some sort of agreement will be eagerly sought by this Government to enable former German citizens to receive their pensions. In a recent issue of a German newspaper in Australia there is a picture of German and American Ministers or Secretaries of State for social security signing an agreement which provides for the exchange of this sort of social security payment. If people contribute to social security payments, as happens in West Germany they are partly personal contributions and partly contributions from employers and they are entitled to receive those payments overseas then surely the fact that they accept Australian citizenship should not preclude them from receiving those payments. I think the Australian Government should take urgent steps to impress on the West German Government that we feel strongly about this issue. The West German Government, to my mind, is very reasonable and surely it will be prepared to discuss this matter. 
The final matter I want to raise concerns a group of people, a large number of whom live in my electorate. They are called Assyrians or they are people of Assyrian background. They are people who have been living in the Middle East, mainly in Iraq and Iran, for many generations. They were Christians who lived in Moslem communities. They claim that they have been persecuted in those countries, especially Iraq. They were able to receive passports in Iraq. I think about a thousand of those families have settled in Australia. Many of them, if not most, speak English well. The older people were employed by the British Government in Iraq before Iraq became independent in about 1956. There is an extremely unpleasant regime in power in Iraq at the present time and it deals very harshly with these people. They claim that this is for religious reasons. The only way that they can leave Iraq is to get a passport which is stamped valid only for a Moslem country. The one that these people picked on is Lebanon. They went to Beirut and there applied to join their relatives in Australia In that country at the present time there are numerous parents of children of people in this country. There are difficulties in Lebanon at the present time, as we know, but the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar' recently issued special instructions for dealing with those difficulties. 
One of the greatest difficulties is that our Government will not accept them on normal immigration terms because they fail to produce a number of documents considered necessary by us. One of them is a valid passport. They do not have valid passports because they cannot get passports in Iraq to enable them to come to Australia. They are entitled to go only to Moslem countries in the Middle East. The second document is a police clearance from the Iraq Government. It is ridiculous to expect people opposed to a regime, whether it be in Iraq, Spain, Yugoslavia or anywhere else, to produce a police clearance from the country of origin. It seems ridiculous to me that they must have a police clearance. Originally, in the case of young males, it was necessary for them to produce a clearance saying that they had performed military service in their own country before they could be accepted by us. 
I appeal to the Minister on behalf of the Assyrian families. These people are otherwise entitled to come to Australia. They have close relatives here, parents, dependant children and others. They have the necessary qualifications to be admitted to Australia. The fact that they do not possess a valid passport or a police clearance from their country of origin should not be held against them. Some steps should be taken by the remnants of our office in Beirut to deal with them urgently. These people are living on money that their relatives are sending from Australia. It is an urgent question. It has gone on for months and months now and everybody is passing the buck. Not many people are involved- only about 100 or 120 people. I can assure the House that their relatives here are extremely good citizens in the broadest sense of the word and every possible help should be given to them. 
-I support the remarks of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  who is the shadow Minister for Health. I will not go over the ground which he has covered but I would like to make a couple of comments on what the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  said and then put my own views to the Minister, who is new to his Department and I hope, still receptive to views even if they come from the Opposition side. I will concentrate on the question of pharmaceutical benefits. The honourable member for Petrie opposed most of the suggested amendments to the National Health Bill. I join with him in some of his opposition but I am in 2 minds about the whole thing and I would like to raise the matter with him. Perhaps the Minister will consider my comments when next the question of pharmaceutical benefits has to be considered or when a reference has to be given to the appropriate committee which decides what substances should be on the pharmaceutical benefits list for non-pensioners. The Government in its policy speech, or at least in the speech delivered last week by the Governor-General, emphasised- I spoke about this yesterday in the debate on the Address-in-Reply- that if there is a certain amount of money to spend and there is a shortage of money, as at present, the Government should concentrate on those in real need. I completely agree with that. I think that in this matter the Government is not concentrating on that aspect of real need. 
I am referring now to the abolition of the subsidised health benefits plan for the purposes of the pharmaceutical benefits. Admittedly the figures cited by the Minister- I cannot check on them- disclose that it costs $1.3m a year to administer the system compared with a value of benefits amounting to $700,000. Obviously this seems wrong. At the same time there is the point that a charge of $2 per necessary prescription- I emphasise the word 'necessary'- for a person who would have qualified for a benefit of 50c is a significant amount of money. It may not mean much to us and it may not mean much to a person even on average weekly earnings, but to those people in real need it does mean a lot. A person on unemployment benefits, a person with a few kids who have a tendency to contract respiratory tract infections or asthma, is in a position where every time he goes to a doctor he gets a number of prescriptions. He gets tablets and medicines. He may get three or four prescriptions per patient, in which case we are talking about $6 or $8 that these people have to pay instead of $1.50. 
Some way ought to be found to enable them to get it at no cost, or very cheaply. The honourable member for Petrie criticised the proposition that these people were forced to go to outpatient departments at hospitals to get medicine free. I think it is in some ways worse than that. I have no strong views about them going to outpatients departments at hospitals. 
They may for medical reasons be better off going there than going to see a doctor privately, in any case, but the difficulty is that many of them are not aware of the fact that they can get a prescription at the outpatients department of a local hospital at no cost or for a nominal charge. 
We are talking in this debate about saving a total of $2m, $700,000 being the actual value of benefits and an amount of $ 1.3m being involved in the administration of the system. I have opened the current edition of the book  Pharmaceutical Benefits  for December 1975 at page 86. I will just read out the prices of substances that we are now talking about. They relate to the value of the maximum quantity dispensed. It is a good page from my point of view. My point does in fact apply to quite a number of pages in this book. The prices shown are: $2.15; $2.17; $2.17; $2.84; $1.97; $1.97; $1.71; $1.96 and $1.97. It can be seen that they are all about the $2 mark. In relation to some substances on the list, there is obviously no point in having them on the socalled free medicine list for other people, apart from pensioners who will be getting them at no cost, because the benefit people will be getting is of the order of 15c, 17c or 84c. In some cases there is no benefit at all. Yet the cost of administering the benefit for those substances must be much more than that per prescription. There ought to be some instruction- I do not know whether an instruction can be given- or some suggestion to the committee advising the Minister possibly to put substances of that sort on a restricted basis for pensioners only so that the patient is not kidded into believing that he is getting free medicine. 
There is a second point about that and a tendency by doctors that I want to refer to. The page I referred to in this book is not just an arbitrary one. Let me refer to the next page. I will read out the prices for these substances. Bear in mind that the price refers always to the maximum quantity dispensed. The prices are: $1.91; $1.97; $2.03; $2.09; $2.15; $2.21; $2.24; $2.32; $2.37; $2.45; $ 1 .96 and $ 1 .84. A person has to pay $2 anyway. The fact is that he will be paying $2 instead of $2.2 1. 1 am sure that the cost to the chemist plus the cost to the Department must be greater than 2 lc. The chemist will have to wait a month or so to get his 21c, having collected $2 from the patient. So it seems hardly worth while having these substances on the list. 
Coming back to the other point that I feel very strongly about, people who have been here before this session know my views on excessive treatment by medical practitioners. This applies not only to surgery matters, which I often talk about, but also to this question of prescriptions. There is a tendency on the part of doctors to write out prescriptions for substances which are on the free list much more frequently than is really necessary. This is an important point to remember. There is a tendency- I am sure I did it myself when I was in medical practice- to write out 2 prescriptions when one would have been enough or sometimes give 2 prescriptions when none was necessary because the doctor vaguely says to the patient: ' Well, it is on the free list anyway '. But, firstly, it is not on the free list as far as the country is concerned and, secondly, it is not on the free list or anywhere near the free list as far as the patient is concerned because he is paying $2 for it. So I think it is important for us to think about what kind of substances should be on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Is it worth while having on the list all these other substances which are very close to the $2 mark. There are some below the $2 mark and I assume they will be eliminated anyway. Is it worth while keeping on the list the ones just above the $2 mark? 
The only argument that I can see against that proposition is that the Department of Health has been extremely efficient in keeping down the cost of pharmaceutical substances that are on this list. It has strong bargaining power because there is a great attraction for the pharmaceutical manufacturer to get his product on this list because the doctor has this book in front of him and he is much more likely to prescribe something that is in this book than something that is not in the book. Therefore there will be a risk or a danger in removing some of the substances which at present are held at, let us say, $2.17 in that when that pressure on the manufacturer and on the chemist is removed the patient will not be charged $2.17; he will have to pay over the $3 mark, or even higher, because there will be no restriction, I assume. There is no price control. It is purely competitive and the competition is not that great among substances which are not on the pharmaceutical benefits list. 
I hope the Minister treats this in the spirit in which I am putting it and that he looks at the list. It is terribly important that nobody in this country is denied medical treatment that he, she or the child needs, for financial reasons only. That is terribly important. It is also important that we do not waste money and, possibly even worse than that, treat people with medicines which are unnecessary and are probably even harmful in many cases when given to the patient. This is one way in which the Government can intervene. It does not intervene directly, but it does in effect intervene by making certain things less attractive to the doctor, to the pharmacist and to the patient at large. As the honourable member for Maribyrnong pointed out, we shall be opposing only 2 sections of this Bill. We support the rest of the legislation. 
I do not oppose the legislation but I would like to make a couple of comments, one exactly the same as I made last year when a similar Bill was introduced in the House and one amending that because in fact some of my criticism has now been noted. I do not kid myself that that is the reason the change has been made, but I would like to read to the House the first paragraph of my speech last year on 1 6 October. I said: 
I refer to the transfer of control of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to the office of Prime Minister. I put on record my reservations about a Premier or a Prime Minister being in charge of any police force. This is a point that I have made before and which the Council for Civil Liberties has also made before. I remind honourable members of what happened in New South Wales in the 1950s when the control of the police force was transferred from the Minister in charge of that force to the Premier. The difficulty that arose was that criticism of the Premier is regarded as involving a question of no confidence. 
I think that ASIO ought to be prepared to take criticism. It is a very powerful organisation. It can be a most unpleasant organisation with which to have dealings. I think that it is necessary. It is extremely important that, in a political sense, criticisms of ASIO are not treated necessarily as being attacks on the Government. The organisation can be wrong. There is no necessity for the whole of the weight of a government to be used to defend ASIO or a police force against what may be legitimate criticism, as happened in New South Wales. 
I am pleased to hear that control of ASIO is to be transferred back from the Prime Minister to the Attorney-General. As I pointed out, governments are more prepared to accept as wrong something under the control of the AttorneyGeneral or any other Minister, and it is not seen as a reflection on the whole government. For some ridiculous reason, criticism of anything for which the Prime Minister of the day is responsible is taken to be a vote of no confidence in the whole government. That leads to the defence of what would most often be an indefensible proposition. A government will defend a police force, or in this case the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, just because it comes under the control of the Prime Minister. If it is admitted that something is wrong then it is admitted that the Prime Minister himself is wrong. 
I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  this afternoon. I could not quite catch whether he said that he expected  Mr Justice  Hope in his report to recommend that ASIO be placed under the responsibility of the Prime Minister. I would be sorry if that were the case. I would also be surprised.  Mr Justice  Hope was  president  of the Council for Civil Liberties for many years while I was its treasurer. I remember that, certainly as far as New South Wales was concerned, we both felt very strongly that the control of the police force should not be in the Premier's Department. 
My next point concerns clause 4 of the Bill. Proposed new section 6A reads in part: . . . other rights or privileges as the holder of his office as a Judge and, for all purposes, his service as Director-General shall be taken to be service as the holder of his office as a Judge. 
Here again the difficulty relates to the Standing Orders of this House. Standing order 75 provides that honourable members may not criticise members of the judiciary unless a special motion of disapproval is moved. If this Bill were interpreted narrowly an honourable member could not criticise the head of ASIO in that capacity, in the same way that allegedly he cannot criticise other judges or Governors-General. A certain amount of latitude is allowed, I realise. But if the Government- the party with the numbers in the House- insisted on it, I presume that it could prevent criticism. I can see these difficulties arising. I hope that I will never see a situation in this House where we cannot criticise the head of ASIO. That person is a public servant in the sense that he runs a department. 
I am perfectly happy to see that he does not lose any of his privileges as a judge- his financial privileges and his seniority. If that were the case judges would not accept the appointment. But I do not think that a judge should bring with him his privilege as a judge whereby honourable members are unable to criticise him, because he would not be acting in a judicial capacity when he was acting as head of ASIO. Criticism ought to be allowed to be directed at him as it is at other public servants. I hope that the new Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  will in his reply or at some time during the debate- if not during this debate then after he has thought about itgive some assurance that the Government does not see proposed the new section 6a of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill as preventing criticism of the holder of the position of Director-General because of his judicial background. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the  Mr Henry  Fischer who was mentioned in a report by the Department of Foreign Affairs which was referred to yesterday in this House. It was said in the report that he met and hosted 2 Iraqi visitors to Sydney. Is that  Mr Henry  Fischer employed by the Scarf Memorial Foundation, a tax-exempt company, because, as  Mr Scarf  put it in today's newspapers, he had political nous and knowhow? Was he previously publisher and editor of the  Australian International News Review,  a profascist, anti-semitic monthly? 

 -Mr Speaker, I do not suppose I am entitled to comment on the last answer. At least we believe in open opposition. My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the New South Wales Government made one or more submissions to the Medibank Review Committee? Will these and other submissions be published so to enable interested parties to comment? Is the New South Wales Government, in its submission, attempting to reimpose a means test on public hospital patients to help struggling surgeons? 
-I used to think that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  was the master of cliches in this House, but obviously he must defer to the honourable member for 
Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  I join with other honourable members in supporting the reconstitution of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I would like to defend the previous Committee against some of the charges made by the honourable member for Bradfield before he started on his cliches about world government, etc. He attacked the Australian Labor Party because the members it appointed to the Committee when it was in government disagreed on the defence significance of the Omega base and the control of it. A committee should consist of people who are prepared to listen to the arguments without adhering to a particular point of view which is allegedly Liberal or Labor. 
All the people on your side, let us face it, voted one way. At least the Labor members did not vote as one. They listened to the argument and the discussion. It is depressing that the Labor Party has the reputation, I admit, for being much tougher on its members, for insisting on unanimity, for exercising much more discipline. This is not true. The Labor Party consists of people who have a basic philosophy in common. The basic philosophy can be defined in all kinds of ways. My own view is that we believe in social justice, whatever that may mean. I accept that this is a vague term, but basically we believe that people ought to be able, by intelligent, rational discussion, to make it possible for everybody in this community to get a decent go at what is available in the community. That does not mean that we all have to agree on every point of foreign policy. It does not mean that we have to agree on every point of defence. It does not mean that we have to agree completely as to what is the best committee system in this House. I just hope that at least some of the huge number of honourable members in this House- many of them are new members- realise that everything that is right and correct has not been said yet. 
If honourable members opposite look at things and investigate things they may form an opinion different from that of their leader, their Minister for Foreign Affairs or their Minister for Defence. If they make an assumption, as many people in this country tend to do, that there ought to be a common foreign policy between the two main sides in the political scene in Australia I do not personally make that assumptionthen surely there are going to be disagreements inside the parties on just what it is; otherwise it means just nothing. I think that a committee is worth while only if there is a fair bit of discussion, if new issues are raised, if it interviews and cross-examines people who have represented Australia overseas in all kinds of countries, and if it tries to find out in detail what they have done. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have been a member of the Committee at least for the last 3 years or so. I am sure that you found the meetings most interesting when there was continuing disagreement possibly on both sides. There was no fixed line; members of the Committee actually tried to find out what the truth was. 
I would like to make one final point because I do not want to detain the House any longer. Specific issues were referred to the Committee. One issue was Omega and the other was the question of dual nationality which affects many citizens in this country at the present time. Dual nationality is one of the bugbears of many people who have migrated to this country. People of Yugoslav, Italian, Greek or whatever origin have become naturalised Australians and consider themselves to be Australians. One of the difficulties that arises is that many of these people get into difficulties when they go back to their country of origin for a visit or for some longer period of time. They can be called up for military service or they can be involved in taxation troubles. Some of them are not allowed to leave the country. This does not happen only in countries behind the Iron Curtain, although we experience greater problems with those countries because we have more difficulty in dealing with them. This situation also exists in countries such as France and Italy. 
A sub-committee was set up to try to deal with the problems of dual nationality. There are quite important issues about which Australia has to make up its mind. For instance, it has to determine what kind of pressures we should exert on other countries and whether we want single nationality or dual nationality. There are people in this country who prefer dual nationality. People in this category include artists and even rugby league footballers, and I understand that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who represents a Rugby League district, is to follow me in this debate. This question is important to footballers who play football in Britain for half of the year and football in Australia for the other half. These footballers are in favour of dual nationality. They want to be British when they play in England and Australian when they play here. This question also is important to artists who want to belong to the equivalent of Actors Equity overseas. These artists want to be able to appear on radio, television and the stage in the United Kingdom, the United States or wherever their country of origin may be. However, they also want to retain their Australian nationality and insist on being able to work over here. These are important issues. 
I was  Chairman  of the sub-committee and 1 must admit that I have less sympathy for people wanting dual nationality in these circumstances, although I can understand their difficulty. My own view is that the sympathy ought to be given to people who are involved in political difficulties because of dual nationality- the people who cannot go back to countries behind the Iron Curtain, the people who cannot go back to other countries because of certain political difficulties that are put in their way by totalitarian regimes in those countries. 
-Ex-Greek citizens in Australia experienced great difficulties when they went back to Greece until about a year ago because at that time the country was in the hands of a military fascist dictatorship. These people who were Australian citizens experienced great difficulties. I do not want to canvass this whole issue but I do think that this is a terribly important one and that a party line should not be taken on it. We have to sit down, discuss this matter and try to find out what ought to be done and what can be done for the benefit of the maximum number of naturalised Australians living in this country at the present time. 
-I would like to raise 2 issues quickly. One of them in fact is related to health. I do not know whether the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is about to leave the chamber, but I would like to deal with the other matter first because it is related to a more specific problem, namely, the rating of Crown land. It is not a new problem, obviously, but it is a problem which affects municipalities and shires throughout the whole of Australia. I shall be dealing specifically with the problem as it affects the Penrith municipality because it has a high percentage of land occupied by government establishments However, obviously there are other Australian municipalities in a similar position. In the case of the Penrith municipality, there are almost 9 square miles or 2232 hectares of land within the City of Penrith which are owned by the Commonwealth Government. It is estimated that the rate loss on that land is currently running at some $ 1 50,000 yearly. 
The municipalities in which there are Commonwealth establishments are disadvantaged because roads and other services still have to be provided to cope with whatever needs the establishments generate. The contributions which the Commonwealth pays to offset these services are usually paid only on the site value of occupied cottages or leased land; they do not pay for the unoccupied area. The total amount of these contributions, which are made in the form of  ex gratia  payments in lieu of rates, are estimated in the case of Penrith to have totalled no more than $8,000 in 1976; that is, $8,000 instead of $150,000. The situation in Penrith is even more perplexing because in the City of Penrith there are a further 1092 hectares, which is about 4 square miles, of land owned by the Housing Commission of New South Wales. This land is lying dormant and undeveloped and, therefore, is non-ratable. Penrith is also facing an estimated rate loss of a further $150,000 on the land recently resumed by the Housing Commission of New South Wales. Up until the last year or so before the land was resumed Penrith Council was receiving rates on almost all of that land. Its complaint with the Housing Commission is that it will be many years before some of that land is developed and therefore becomes ratable. If one adds to the Commonwealth and Housing Commission ownerships all the land owned by the State Government and other State instrumentalities, such as the Planning and Environment Commission, which land is non-ratable, one sees that in the case of Penrith there is a further rate loss of an estimated $ 190,737. 
I will not go into great detail as to the specific areas of the large Commonwealth establishments in the area, but some of them are quite significant. There is the Navy establishment, the Central Ammunition Depot, a Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation establishment, a signals depot, a Royal Australian Air Force area and an Army Engineers stores depot. Large amounts of money are being lost by the Penrith Council and by other councils, of course, because of these establishments. What they are asking is whether in the light of the current review of Commonwealth-State financial relationships and the funding of grants to local government, the question will be reconsidered and whether it is possible that full rates will be paid on Crown land. If we add to that land the areas which are non-ratable because they are owned by religious or charitable institutions we can see that the Penrith Council is losing a large amount of money. This applies also, of course, to other councils. The local residents have to pay much more than a fair share in rates to keep the Penrith Council facilities operating. 
The second point I would like quickly to refer to the Minister for Health is one I have raised before. I notice that there is an article along these lines in today's  Bulletin.  I refer to excessive payments to medical practitioners in country areas working in certain country hospitals where the fee for service has been introduced. Probably this is happening in the sort of area represented by the Minister. This has become a big rip-off for medical practitioners: I do not expect the Minister to do anything about it because probably they put in a fair bit towards his election expenses. The Minister should look at this matter not from a personal point of view but from the point of view of Medibank and the saving of money for the Government. This is an important issue. Standard ward patients used to be treated in hospitals by what were called honorary medical officers. They received no payment at all. As the Minister probably knows, under Medibank it was proposed that these doctors would be paid on a sessional basis. However, the doctors refused to accept that and in some country hospitals in New South Wales the fee for service was introduced. The  Bulletin  refers today to what was said by  Dr William  Barclay of the New South Wales Health Commission.  Dr Barclay  was quoted as having said:  'In a large number of hospitals the cost of providing the medical services is consistent with international experience, it was what we expected on the basis of figures we had from New Zealand and Canada, but in some country hospitals, especially where there are relatively few doctors for the population, the costs seem to be very high. We are making a critical examination of them. ' 
The article continued and said: 
The trouble seems to stem from the fee-for-service system for paying doctors in those country town hospitals that don't have the employed medical staff to cope with the work. The local doctor in those towns comes in and charges the hospital (and so Medibank and the State) standard medical fees on a patient-by-patient basis. This appears to have led to massive overcharging in a number of towns, and in the west of New South Wales there are stories of doctors more than quadrupling their incomes since Medibank funding began- and much of this income leap comes from hospital work. 
The  Bulletin  went on to say: 
The irony of this is that the AMA wants to introduce the fee-for-service system into all hospitals, city and country. They are philosophically committed to it, and in the few country towns of New South Wales that don't have a feeforservice hospital system already (they pay their doctors per session) doctors are taking industrial action to have it introduced. 
There appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  earlier this year a report of a meeting between  Mr Healey,  the New South Wales Minister for Health, and the Commonwealth Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt.  Obviously the report was based on a Press release, apparently from  Mr Healey.  This newspaper report stated: 

 Mr Hunt was told that the New South Wales Government was disturbed by the high cost of the fee-for-service payments operating in the country and the fact that some doctors were possibly abusing the system. 
Honourable members should note this statement: 

 Mr Healey said he knew of one doctor who claimed $3,000 for treating nine hospital patients, eight of whom were geriatrics, in a single month. 'That makes an income of $36,000 a year before he looks at a private patient ', he said 
-The point I am making is terribly important. The Medibank Review Committee is to report to the Commonwealth Minister for Health. When the Minister discusses this matter with the State Health Commissions and the State Ministers for Health he should tell them that he is aware of the fact that even though doctors claim that fee-for-service- certainly surgeons in Victoria have claimed this in the past- does not cost any more than sessional fees, this is not true. I will not go into the details now as I do not have sufficient time. It is impossible for them to carry out the work on that basis. 
It is important to remember one point, otherwise it might seem unfair to the doctors. Until Medibank was introduced they did all this work for nothing. They did it in an honorary capacity. Now they are being offered sessional fees of something of the order of $80 for a 3-hour session instead of nothing. They are not satisfied with that and want a much larger amount. The New South Wales Government has estimated that the extra cost for public patients of introducing fee-for-service instead of sessional payments would be an extra $150m in one year in that State alone. A government which is trying to restrain expenditure must be very conscious of this when dealing with the medical profession and State Departments of Health. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What sums, and for what purposes, were given to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, N.S.W., by (a) direct grants and (b) section 96 grants administered by his Department in each of the last 5 financial years. 
) What will be the details for 1 975-76. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) What sums, and for what purposes, were given to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, N.S.W., by (a) direct grants and (b) section 96 grants administered by the Department of Social Security in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What will be the details for 1975-76. 
. My remarks will generally deal with the second and third parts of the amendment. I should like to start first on the second part of the amendment, paragraph (b), which states: 
The Speech makes no reference to the need for action to ensure there cannot be a recurrence of the Constitutional crisis which threatens the continuation of the Australian Parliamentary system, . . . 
I do not want to get too far into the whole question of the constitutional crisis but what I should like to deal with is the question as to whether there ought to be a threat against persons who wish to discuss the need for action. I shall limit my own remarks to that particular aspect of the matter. I am concerned about the civil liberties aspect involved in this question. I refer the House to a remark made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  as recorded at page 544 of  Hansard  of 4 March when admittedly he felt that he had been provoked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The Attorney-General said: 
May I say, as this matter has been raised outside this House, that I have considered statements by the Leader of the Opposition about the Governor-General. I have a prima facie view that he has committed a breach of the crime of libel- seditious libel. But may I say to this House that I have decided not to prosecute that gentleman. I will not make a martyr of him. Public interest demands, apparently, that he shall go free for the moment - 
I repeat the words ' for the moment '- from that crime of seditious libel which I believe he has committed. He goes on making these statements. 
The view I should like to put before this House does not relate to the accuracy or otherwise of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. The argument I put- I hope it would be supported by members on both sides of the House- is that there should be no legislative prohibition on people making those sorts of statements. If people feel strongly along the lines on which the Leader of the Opposition has been speaking in dealing with the Governor-General, there should be no threat over them of some action being taken in the courts of this country to prevent those sorts of statements. I believe it is a ludicrous law which would prevent political discussion of that type of issue. I am not sure that in fact a prima facie case has been made out, as the Attorney-General has said. But certainly the Attorney-General ought to know a hell of a lot more law than I do. I have a feeling that in section 24F. of the Commonwealth Crimes Act, there is reference to 'Certain acts done in good faith not unlawful', such acts not involving prosecution. But is is not terribly relevant, because if the Attorney-General, who is, after all, the adviser on law to this Government, feels that a person could be prosecuted for this, then I feel it is a great pity that the same Attorney-General does not in fact indicate that he would like to change the law so that the kind of statement by the Leader of the Opposition will be protected. 
I should like to read to honourable members parts of a letter from John Bennett, who is the 
Secretary of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties. He is certainly not a supporter of the Labor Party; he stood for Parliament against the Labor Party. In the  Australian  of 5 March he said: 
The recent seizure of the diaries of police guarding  Mr Whitlam  during last year's election, and officially inspired speculation that he could be charged with sedition for his criticism of the Governor-General, both seem to be dangerous precedents incompatible with free political debate. 
I would make that important point also. The letter went on: 
Taken together with police interrogation of the ALP's advertising agency, Labor supporters- whether or not prone to mild paranoia- could be excused for thinking this amounts to gratuitous political intimidation. 
The speculation that  Mr Whitlam  could face sedition charges calls attention to the ludicrously broad definition of sedition in the Commonwealth Crimes Act and the need to amend it. 
This letter was published on 5 March and was obviously written before the statement by the Attorney-General that the Leader of the Opposition could have been prosecuted. It went on: 
Under the Act it is an offence punishable by gaol sentence to promote feelings of ill-will or hostilities between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects or to incite dissatisfaction with the governments of Australia and- incredible as it may seem- of the United Kingdom! 
May I add that I think the Dominions are also included. The letter continued: 
These offences are often seemingly committed, even by newspapers. 
The Act is a potential danger to freedom of expression, and the offence of sedition should be amended to require an intent to incite riotous or disorderly conduct. 
The fact that the law of sedition has not been invoked since the early 1930s, and is unlikely to be invoked against  Mr Whitlam  and others who canvass the issues involved in the events leading up to the dismissal of  Mr Whitlam  in November 1975, is no argument against the amendment of the Crimes Act. 
The Council for Civil Liberties does not support any particular view about the events, but believes the issues involved should be freely canvassed. 
Obsolete laws which do not accord with community standards, or which are kept as a veiled threat to inhibit freedom of expression, have no place on the statute books. 
I repeat: . . . which are kept as a veiled threat to inhibit freedom of expression, have no place on the statute books. 
I refer to the Attorney-General's statement that for the moment he will not prosecute.  Mr Bennett  finished his letter by saying: 
It is to be hoped that in this limited and inexpensive area of law reform the present Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  will be more effective. 
He was referring to the fact that previous governments have not altered this legislation. I completely agree with the proposition of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties. I think it is important that if there is to be discussion of the constitutional crisis which occurred last year, that discussion ought to be allowed to range as widely as possible. It is quite ridiculous that the Government can threaten to use the Crimes Act to prevent further discussion of certain sensitive subjects. 
I now address myself to the third part of the Opposition amendment, which deals basically with the allocation of resources and the financial problems facing this Government. The Opposition claims that the Government is transferring resources from middle and low income families to those on higher incomes. Let me mention increases in social security benefits or what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  calls autumn pension increases. Whilst the Government undertook to increase pensions according to the consumer price index, 2 points are relevant. The first is that the Government decided not to increase the dependants' allowance. As all honourable members probably know the social security beneficiary- the widow, the would be breadwinner who is an invalid, the unemployed and the sick- who have dependants in their families are worst off. Whilst pensions will be increased by 6.4 per cent from the first pay period in May there will be no increase in the allowance for dependants. By contrast, when the Australian Labor Party was in government between 1972 and the end of 1975 it increased the dependants' allowance from $4 a week to $7.50 a week, an increase of 87.5 per cent. During this time the consumer price index increased approximately 44.7 per cent. So the increase in the allowance for dependants was nearly twice the increase in the CPI. Apparently the position is to be completely different now. Pensions have been increased by 6.4 per cent but there is to be no increase in the dependants' allowance. 
The second important point is that the 6.4 per cent increase was granted only after the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission rejected the claim by the Government that award wages should not be increased by 6.4 per cent. I am quite sure that if the Commission had accepted the Government's argument that the increase should be 3.2 per cent the Government would have granted only a 3.2 per cent increase to pensioners and other social security beneficiaries. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard,  a table prepared by the Parliamentary Research Service setting out social security benefits between October 1972 and November 1975. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it true that the serial  Blue Hills  has been broadcast twice daily at 1 p.m. and 6.45 p.m. on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio stations? Are we now up to episode No. 5,888 and probably about to approach the climax of the story? Has the 6.45 p.m. re-broadcast been cancelled because of lack of finance? Is this unfair to listeners who work during the day and who now may never find out who got whom and how? 
I have a basic belief that when everybody agrees on something there is probably something wrong with that proposition; that if everybody or apparently everybody is agreeing that one must not criticise huge expenditure on tertiary education there is probably some rip-off involved; and that there are some questions which ought to be raised before everybody in this House pats the Government on the back as they patted the previous Government and will pat future governments for escalating expenditure on tertiary education. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House to certain examples. Expenditure for colleges of advanced education for the triennium 1973-75 was $743m. For 1976 it will be $353m plus cost adjustments which became inevitable as a result of increases since last year. The proposal for 1976-78, which is in the report which recommended the amount for the triennium 1976-78, which was later suspended by the previous Government, is $ 1,682m at December 1974 costs. The corresponding figures for universities are: For the triennium 1973-75, $l,167m; for 1976, $498m plus cost adjustments. The proposed expenditure for 1976-78 is $l,780m at December 1974 costs. These were huge expenditures which had been recommended to the previous Government. They have been partly accepted and partly deferred. Similar figures will be again recommended for the next triennium. 
There is an assumption that we must go back to the funding of universities and colleges of advanced education on a triennial basis. The proposal is justified on the basis that it enables colleges and universities to plan ahead, to expand and to do everything nicely. I am sure everybody in this community would like a guarantee that nothing can happen to them, at least for the next 3 years. Is this a reasonable proposition in a country which is trying to curtail expenditure? Is it not an elitist attempt to exclude spending on tertiary education from discussion and bargaining even though every other government department must submit to discussion and bargaining? Primary and secondary education, social security, health, housing, transport and everything else must be submitted to discussion and bargaining. I assume the relevant Ministers go to Cabinet before the Budget is drawn up and justify expenditure or fight a decrease in expenditure if there is an attempt to decrease it. Each year they get in there and bargain. For some reason or other, colleges of advanced education and universities try to get out of that bargaining by saying that they want to be funded on a triennial basis. I do not think the community at large necessarily accepts that proposition. I certainly do not. There is a danger that the most vocal groups in the community the groups in the community best able to express their point of view, are able to get away with what I call a rip off in education. 
There have been these huge increases in expenditure on education. I am sure they have been of benefit to many students individually, but I am not so sure that they can be justified at a time when huge economies are contemplated in other areas of expenditure. We pamper university staffs and other staffs. I have not prepared my speech to any great extent. 
If the honourable member for Angas thinks about it he will realise that there is a limited amount of money available for expenditure by the Government. We are continually told that. He will also realise that the money committed to tertiary education takes a considerable amount away from that limited amount of money. We must discuss priorities. 
University staffs have certain additional benefits. I refer to sabbaticals, for example. As I understand the history of sabbaticals, they were introduced into universities over 30 years ago, before the war, when Australian universities were treated as outposts of the Empire and it was difficult to attract competent lecturers and staff to Australian universities. They were promised that occasionally, once every six or seven years, they would be able to get back into the main stream in Europe, Britain or the United States of America and refresh their professional knowledge. Sabbaticals are no longer needed. There is no difficulty in staffing universities with our graduates or attracting able overseas graduates. There are able overseas graduates willing and keen to come to Australia. We cannot appoint all of them because there are not enough vacancies. Why do we still keep the sabbatical? Why has that become a holy cow? Only one group in the community is entitled to it. Now it seems to be one year off in every 5 years, plus travel expenses. That could be justified if we could not attract professional people under ordinary pay and conditions. Why should we still do that? Surely that sort of thing should be investigated and discussed, not just accepted as something which cannot be disputed at any stage. 
I am a representative of this House on the Council of the Australian National University. From that Council I was appointed to its housing sub-committee. Last year I became aware- I am sure it was not a new discovery for most of the people who had been on the ANU Council for some time- that the rents charged for about 550 dwellings controlled and owned by the University were significantly less than the rents which the Rent Controller permits one to charge in Canberra. As most honourable members would know, it is extremely difficult to obtain rental accommodation in Canberra at controlled rents. Yet the University was not charging those rates; it was charging significantly less. It was not doing that for people who could not afford to pay full rents; it was doing that for people who were earning very much more than the average weekly earnings- professors, lecturers, senior lecturers, etc. I have no objection to subsidised rents for people who can put up a case that they need it. Obviously the rents of graduate students who are getting very poor incomes, about $3,000 or $4,000 a year, must be subsidised. I think very few people would dispute that. Is it really fair to subsidise the rent of a person who is getting over $20,000 a year? I think it is wrong to do so. 
I think it is wrong to subsidise the rents of politicians, Ministers, etc. There is nothing I can do about that. I thought it was wrong on the part of the ANU. By increasing the rents for the buildings owned by the ANU to the rates permitted by the Rent Controller, and still allowing deductions for those people who were entitled to reduced rents because of low income, a sum approaching $ 1 m extra will be obtained in rents by the ANU. It was not $ lm. If I remember rightly, it was over $800,000 a year. This was a tremendous amount. What possible justification could there be for taxpayers subsidising well off university staff for their accommodation? 
I pay tribute at this stage to  Mr Coleman,  who is the relatively new bursar at the Australian National University, and to Professor Ian Ross who is one of the  Deputy  Vice-Chancellors. I think those are their positions. I can never quite remember the terminology of the hierarchy there. They took a leading part in bringing about these rent increases and were able to save the taxpayer a large amount of money. It is important to do that. I have mentioned only those 2 points- sabbaticals and subsidised grants, although subsidised grants no longer apply here and, I assume, never did apply in other areas of Australia. However, sabbaticals do apply in other areas in Australia and I am sure that if we went into the items of tertiary education expenditure we would find many other points which could be discussed in greater detail. 
There is a proposition that we continually have to increase staff to reduce the student-staff ratio. I know that this is a pleasant thing to do if for no other reason than to promote people almost automatically because others come in at a junior level or below them. But can that necessarily be justified? Is there any evidence that we need a larger staff at universities? Maybe there is but I have not been shown that evidence and I have some doubt whether the people on the Universities Commission have been clearly convinced of the need for it. Certain assumptions are made. 
In conclusion, I come back to my original point. Education, especially tertiary education, has become a holy cow in this country. People do not attack it or criticise it and, what is much worse, they do not question it If we accept the proposition that there should always be triennial funding, the difficulty as I see it is that there will never be any questioning because we are allocating expenditure for a 3-year period. It looks a huge amount of money and people will say: ' It is for 3 years, though'. Consequently we do not get down to details and do not question individual items of expenditure. That is bad: I am probably in a minority comprising only a few members of my own Party in expressing that point of view, but it is an issue which ought to be discussed in the community and in this Parliament when we are prepared to sit down and slash other expenditure which may well be much more justified than the expenditure on tertiary education. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What sums, and for what purposes, were given to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, New South Wales, by (a) direct grants and (b) section 96 grants administered by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What will be the details for 1975-76. 
I direct to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs a question which in a sense is supplementary to the question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Higgins. How do customs police and drug squads fix the alleged value of drugs which are seized? Are the amounts alleged, often reaching $500,000 or more, not likely to glamorise the sale of drugs, just as the alleged huge amounts paid to entertainers aim to do? Are not the amounts greatly exaggerated in both cases? Will the Minister ask officers of his Department to give actual weights of drugs when giving evidence or making news releases and not to speculate on their alleged value? 
-Last week on a number of occasions, we had the spectacle of a number of Government supporters speaking without a member of the Opposition speaking in between. Today the position is reversed. I am now the third  speaker  in a row for the Opposition in this debate. I congratulate the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  for his criticism of the Government. It is completely justified. I cannot understand why he is going to vote against the Opposition's amendment. 
-Yes I was. The amendment is couched in these terms: while not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House deplores the failure of the Government to index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living. 
The honourable member for Hotham, who was the Minister for Social Security in the temporary government just after 1 1 November- I am not quite sure what its official title was - 
It was known as the caretaker government. The honourable member told us that on behalf of the Liberal and National Country Parties he presented the policy on social security. In that policy he referred to instant and automatic increases of pensions and other social security payments. This Government is now introducing an amending Bill to update pensions, very belatedly, but it is not doing anything about the dependants' allowances. 
I draw the Government's attention to the fact that quite a large number of children are involved. At the present time pensioners and other social security recipients with children receive $7.50 per week for each dependent child. This amount is not being increased. According to the latest figures available on eligible children, that is as at 30 June 1975, there were 9858 children of age pensioners, 46 269 children of invalid pensioners, 138 867 children of widows, 59 568 children of those on supporting mothers' benefits, and 56 293 children of those receiving unemployment benefit. So updated allowances will not be paid in respect of a large number of children. No attempt is being made to increase the dependants ' allowances. 
Between 1972 and November 1975 the Whitlam Labor Government increased the dependant's allowance from $4.50 to $7.50 a week, an increase of 66.7 per cent. The present Government is doing nothing of the sort. I find it difficult to see how anybody can disagree with the proposition that the dependent's allowance should be increased also. In the case of pensioners or other social security recipients with only one child, the amount of money involved would be relatively little. It is those with a number of dependent children who will experience the greatest difficulty and who will miss out most. I appeal to the Government, even at this stage, to include this amendment in the Social Services Amendment Bill. 
At this stage I would pay a tribute to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who was the Minister for Social Security for most of the time in the Whitlam Labor Government. He did a tremendous amount of work to improve social security benefits and the approach to them, during the time he was the Minister, a period of some two and a half years. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out social security benefits and the changes to them between October 1972 and November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What sums, and for what purposes, were given to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, New South Wales, by (a) direct grants and (b) section 96 grants administered by the Department of Education in each of the last five financial years. 
What will be the details for 1 975-76. 
I do not wish to detain - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-We are dealing with clause 7 of the Bill which will abolish funeral benefits for pensioners. This debate is a continuation of a debate which commenced last Thursday evening. We pointed out that the Labor Party strongly opposes the abolition of this funeral benefit. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who led for us in this debate, pointed out the miserably small amount of money that is involved- less than $300,000 for the rest of this financial year- and yet according to the Budget, more than $23,000m is to be spent by this Government this financial year. Yet the Government has decided to abolish a funeral benefit, thus saving $300,000 this year, while at the same time it gave $30m for the superphosphate bounty. More than $5,000 was thereby given to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself. What a way to look at social services! We objected to this. 
We had some typical examples of doublespeak on Thursday night. The other day I pointed out an example of doublespeak on the part of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who, in a statement headed 'Emergency Telephone Interpreter Services in Australia', said that she was most anxious to examine ways and means of improving the efficiency of the service and client help for migrants. What had she done? What did the statement deal with? It dealt with the proposition that it had been decided to replace the manned operation of the telephone service with an answering service. Apparently that was the way to improve the efficiency of the service and to help the migrants who needed that service. Migrants who rang the service got a telephone number to ring the following day. What a way to cover up what was really happening. 
The other night the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  said they intended voting with us on this issue but said that they had been driven away from doing so by the honourable member for Oxley because he had put the case too forcefully. The following day we saw a story in the' Melbourne  Age,  that the honourable members had met with the Prime Minister that afternoon. The Prime Minister had called them in and had told them what to do, quite clearly pointing out to them that they had to vote that particular way. They were not going to crawl out from under as far as Government members were concerned. They have not denied it in this chamber; they have obviously accepted that proposition. 
Well, they are doing it. They are now voting for the legislation because they have instructions from the Prime Minister. They prefer the Prime Minister's word to any queries that have been raised by people back in their own electorates. That night the honourable member for Denison referred to the Hobart pensioners as plonkos. It was a disgraceful performance by the honourable member for Denison who obviously has no contact with the pensioners, and referred to them all as plonkos What beautiful examples of doublespeak we had on that particular evening from the honourable member for Denison. I quote from  Hansard,  page 1316 of 1 April. The honourable member for Denison said:  . . . I support with reluctance this clause. 
That is, the clause dealing with the abolition of the funeral benefit. 
I see it as the first step along the way to a long-awaited fair deal for pensioners. 
Is that not beautiful? The honourable member sees the legislation as the first step towards a long- awaited fair deal, yet the Government is abolishing a benefit for the pensioners. What lovely doublespeak! Then we have the honourable member for Franklin coming into this chamber taking the same sort of line and telling us how terribly sorry he felt for the pensioners but he felt even more sorry for himself because he had been told by the Prime Minister at 6 p.m. that evening that he would not be getting any dinner if he did not vote the Government way. The honourable member for Franklin said, according to page 1 322 of  Hansard  of 1 April: 
The deletion of this funeral benefit has caused me concern. I have to say that I believe it is only the first bite at achieving our social welfare objectives. 
What a lovely way of talking about the abolition of a benefit. The honourable member said that this was the first step towards the Government achieving its social welfare objectives. If honourable members opposite believe in a sort of market place economy where people will not die unless they get paid funeral benefit then maybe this is one way of abolishing the death rate amongst pensioners. Is that the way in which the honourable member for Franklin is looking at the matter? He said that this was the first step toward achieving the Government's social welfare objectives. I take it that the honourable member's social welfare objectives are exactly the same as those of the honourable member for Denison and those of all other honourable members on the Government side now. The Government's objective is to cut expenditure on social security. That is its only aim. The whole of the objective of the Government with regard to social services is to reduce expenditure so that it can spend the money on superphosphate subsidies such as that received by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is in receipt of a parliamentary income of $57,000 a year, much of which is tax free plus his large private income. On top of that he has now received a bonus of more than $5,000 paid for by a significant number of these funeral benefits so that the Government can balance its Budget. The Government tries to balance its Budget by giving money to those who have and taking it away from people who have least. But what an admission on the part of the honourable member for Denison and the honourable member for Franklin- this step was only the first bite at achieving the Government's social welfare objectives. What is this Government going to abolish next? What benefit received by pensioners is this Government going to abolish next as the second bite of its social welfare objectives? What a way to approach the whole topic. Then honourable members opposite refer to pensioners as plonkos. I am disgusted at the way honourable members opposite behaved the other night and I am sure the people of Australia are looking at this in the same way. 
I should like to make just one point in regard to clause 10 which deals with the date on which the increases will be applied. I should like to draw the attention of honourable members, especially those on the Government side, to the speech by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  last Wednesday when he repeated in this House the undertaking that he had given during the election campaign on behalf of the now Government that there would be instant and automatic adjustments in social service and repatriation payments according to the cost of living index. In fact the amendments which are to be introduced on 6 May are in accordance with increases in the consumer price index in the December quarter. The ordinary worker in Australia received compensation for these increases in March. Figures showing another increase for the March quarter will be available before the proposed increases in payments are made. I say to honourable members opposite who try to argue on the basis of 6- monthly increases, which is fair enough, that if we have 6-monthly increases we must have them on the basis of the latest cost of living adjustments. If the increases in payments are to be made in May they ought to include the adjustments for the March quarter. I ask honourable members opposite who have some concern, as we on this side have, for social service payments to take this into consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
-I would certainly agree with most of the substantive points that have been made by the two or three speakers who have spoken so far in this discussion. However, I should like to draw the attention of the House to much of the hypocrisy that is going on this afternoon. The matter proposed for discussion to my mind is hypocritical. I will deal with that in a minute. One of the reasons why freedom is in fact under threat not only in Poland but also in many other countries is exhibited by what is happening in this House this afternoon. We have had only one Minister at a time in the House throughout the discussion and he has been in the House because he is forced to be here. First it was the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and now it is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (  Mr Viner).  When the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  started to speak we had 7 Liberals and 3 members of the National Country Party in the chamber. 
Yes, you were one of them. 
-No, there were three. I counted them. 
There are only 2 members of the National Country Party here now so the number has not increased. 
I am sorry, I did miss the  Deputy  Speaker; I accept that. I think that the matter under discussion is an important issue and there ought to be discussions on questions of freedom because if Parliament means anything in Australia surely it means the existence of freedom and we ought to do as much as possible to encourage the existence of freedom in other countries. I think it is hypocritical to bring on this matter as one of public importance and as a matter of urgency because there is no great urgency about it. I am sure that the honourable member for Mackellar would agree with me, when he is not in one of his hypocritical moods, that there has been no practical freedom in Poland for many years now. In fact, Poland has had very little freedom in its whole history. There has certainly not been any since 1939 when the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Hitler's Germany divided Poland between them. There has not been any freedom. Any changes in the Polish Constitution are pure formalities and there has not been any significant change in the position in Poland. What happened in Poland is deplorable as is what happened in the Soviet Union and in satellite countries of the Soviet Union. What happened in a vast majority of countries on this earth is deplorable. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  pointed out, there are some ISO countries in the United Nations and I think about twenty three of them would get a clearance on any significant basis of having freedom of expression and civil liberties. We do not think about this enough. As I said a minute ago, the state of this House exhibits why freedom disappears in many countries. If a country is living next to a giant such as the Soviet Union it is even easier for freedom to disappear, as happened in the case of Poland. 
The other point I want to make is that there is a certain amount of hypocrisy by this Government. The Soviet Union is an authoritarian and totalitarian country, but we have a distinction on the part of this Government between the Soviet Union and China. We criticise the Soviet Union and attempt to make friends with China. I do not know whether this is really a conscious attempt by our Department of Foreign Affairs or whether it is just a preference by the new Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has always been closer to the peasants and therefore prefers the Chinese regime to that of the Soviet Union. I do not know the reason for it. In case some honourable members think that I am alone in my suggestion in this regard, I should like to quote from the  Bulletin  of 3 April an article by Peter Samuel on foreign affairs. Peter Samuel has never been sympathetic to the Left anywhere in the world. I think he has been closely associated with the Democratic Labor Party. I think he has belonged to what I would call the more rational wing of the DLP. In this article he states: 
No foreign government has been quite as lavish in its praise of the Fraser regime in Canberra as Peking.  His  government's strong denunciation of Soviet and Cuban involvement in Angola, its support for the American build-up in the Indian Ocean and most lately the joint defence talks with New Zealand have received favourable publicity in the government-controlled Press in China. ... the Peking People's Daily wrote it up as most important and a 'fully justified decision' in response to 'the serious Soviet threat'. It said: 'The decision by Australia and New Zealand to strengthen joint defence is a most explicit reply to Soviet social imperialist expansion and threat in the Indian Ocean.'  'Mr Whitlam  is a great showman, perhaps  Mr Fraser  is a great statesman', said one Chinese diplomat in Canberra recently. For some it is merely an ironic reflection on changing times that Fraser should be more highly regarded in Peking than Whitlam. For others it is something of a worry that Fraser may go overboard in embracing the Chinese communists. Considerable importance is being attached to the Prime Minister's intention to make Peking the first place for a formal State visit. He goes to China in mid-June. The same trip will see him visiting Tokyo, but Washington and European and South-East Asian capitals are only to be visited some time in the indefinite future. 
I think that is an important point. He is prepared to go to China. He is completely out of touch with, the people of South-East Asia. I am sure other members of this House who have visited SouthEast Asia know what fear there is in South-East Asia of China. People of South-East Asia look to us for some leadership. What do we see? We see a Prime Minister who is crawling to the Chinese at present. The article continues: 
The leading government backbencher on foreign affairs,  Senator Peter  Sim, is one of a group of government members expressing disquiet about the excessively pro-Chinese stance they see the government adopting. Sim says flatly he does not think Fraser should go to Peking at this stage. And, although they are not prepared to be quoted, others describe his plans as naive and dangerous for the government. 
Obviously the honourable member for Mackellar is not one of those who consider that to be naive and dangerous. He apparently thinks it is all right to play footsie, or whatever the appropriate title is, with the Chinese regime. As far as I am concerned it is very difficult to make distinctions between totalitarian regimes. Those regimes are extreme totalitarian regimes as are many regimes in South America which are right wing or so-called right wing regimes. There are many regimes in Eastern Europe of the same type and of course there are now a number of regimes in Asia and Indo-China of this extreme kind, and China itself. 
And in Africa there are extremely repressive regimes. I go back to the point that it is important that we do not take sides with any of those regimes against other regimes. I have reservations in my own mind about the sort of policy which we adopt on foreign affairs. I know that our own Government, the Labor Government, also adopted that sort of policy. The basic policy proposition in foreign affairs from all Australian governments seems to be that we recognise and imply, at least vaguely, support for governments because they are in charge of a particular country, no matter how they got there, no matter how they were imposed on that particular country. That applies to East Timor and Angola. I do not know which of the regimes in those 2 countries will be recognised first by Australia but I put it to honourable members that as the position stands at present neither of them should be recognised by this country. Thengovernments have been imposed by foreign troops. Foreign troops intervened in both cases, in one case Cuban troops and in the other case Indonesian troops, and repressed the local people and took from them the right to make a decision. We should not be on a bandwagon with countries which have no basic belief in democracy. We should not recognise the new regimes in those countries, support them and deal with them in every possible way simply because they control the capital cities and the majority of the population. 
The honourable member is also wrong there. There is a letter in the  Bulletin  today, which I suggest he should read, from  Mr Woolcott,  our Ambassador in Indonesia, who points out that Malik was not even in Townsville. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has he seen reports about an Australian interviewed repeatedly on radio and television who claims to be a principal in a company advertising in the United States of America and Hong Kong for women to marry 
Australian men? Does he claim- that is, the principal of the company, not the Minister- to have more than 20 000 single, good looking, clean, well educated, sexy and rich Australian men on his books and does he charge these women large sums to arrange introductions? Will the Minister advise our consular representatives overseas to tell any interested women that 'it ain't necessarily so' and that all 3 Melbourne daily newspapers and the  Sydney Morning Herald  refuse to accept advertisements from this company? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to order. I understand that 25 minutes are set aside for debate on this matter. The debate started at 4.45 p.m. and therefore a further 5 minutes are allowed. 
Honourable members- Yes! 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What sums, and for what purposes, were given to the Wayside Chapel, Kings Cross, New South Wales, by (a) direct grants and (b) section 96 grants administered by his Department in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What will be the details for 1975-76. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to speak on the clause for only a minute. I would like to ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)-I  hope that he will reply- a question which relates to the speech he made last Tuesday, 27 April, which is recorded at page 1626 of  Hansard  of that date. He said: . . . the previous Government - 
That is the Labor Governmentdecided in August 197S to approve all outstanding proposals under section 5 of the Acton or before 27 September 1975 - 
This was because of the expiration of the previous legislation. So all those applications were approved. Later on, in the very last paragraph of the same speech, he says: 
An amendment to the existing legislation - 
That is the legislation we are debating now- will give organisations with existing rights 12 months from the date on which a grant is actually approved to plan and commence construction of their hostels. 
I want to know whether that 12-month period commences from 27 September 1975. The grants were approved last year. That is the point. The grants were approved on 27 September 1975. That would mean that they would expire on 27 September 1976. 1 wonder whether the Minister could consult with his advisers on this matter. I think that it is a terribly important point for all the organisations which feel that they have had approval granted and they want to know exactly what is going to happen. Does the time for the grants expire on 27 September of this year, before which date obviously there will be no money available, and if there were money available, it could not be spent before 27 September of this year? 
-The point is that the Minister said last Tuesday night that all those programs had been approved by our Government- that is by the Labor Governmenton 27 September last year and that the amendment will now give these rights for only 12 months after the date of approval. Could the Minister please give me a reply on that point? 
-Does the Prime Minister remember that the introduction of noncontributory Medibank last year meant that there was almost no increase in the consumer price index for the September quarter? Does he agree that this benefited the economy? Is it not true that the introduction of a specific Medibank levy will, under the methods used by the Bureau of Statistics, add over 3 per cent to the consumer price index and that this will markedly increase inflation in Australia? 
-The final statement of the honouable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  about an honourable member putting his foot in a hole and falling flat on his face makes it fairly obvious to many of us who know both him and the Governor-General why he was so keen to protect the GovernorGeneral. It was because they have a lot in common, especially late in the evenings. I address myself to the Appropriation Bills which are before us for debate today. One of the points with which I shall deal concerns alleged savings by the Government. When the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  introduced these Appropriation Bills he also presented a statement of savings expected in annual appropriations. The alleged total savings amount to in excess of $477m but let us examine closely what is involved in the proposed savings. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during his election campaign and when refusing Supply last year talked about wasteful expenditure by the previous Government. Let us examine what the present Government has been able to save and in what areas. I point out in passing that of the savings of $477m an amount of $93m relates to savings on Medibank. But nothing really has been done because this amount arises from the proposed expenditure for the first year of Medibank not being as high as was estimated. I will give details of this aspect later. 
The Government has estimated a saving of $64m on the Childrens Commission by not establishing it, but of course the Government proposes an expenditure of $55m under Appropriations Bills (3) and (4) on an interim committee, which is the same sort of organisation. This is just a sleight of hand. Where, in fact, is the Government saving money? According to the statement of savings provided by the Treasurer an amount of almost $7m will be saved in respect of the Commonweaalth Police. I submit that is not a true figure because I know that it has now been decided to replace Commonwealth police officers at many Commonwealth factories and other locations with locally recruited guards. The net result is that whatever is saved on the Commonwealth Police will be spent on guards who will be performing duties previously performed by the police. This is exactly what happened at the munitions factory at St Marys in my area. Some of the employees panicked because they thought that the removal of the Commonwealth Police was an indication that the munitions factory was about to close. I suggest that this is not a true saving but a transfer of expenditure from one department to another. 
It is proposed to save $20,000 in running expenses of the Institute of Family Studies. It is ridiculous to try to save such a small amount if by its expenditure some families could be prevented from breaking up with resultant deserted wives and children getting into trouble. An amount of $102,000 is to be saved by not appointing an Australian ombudsman, even though the Government said it would make such an appointment. Legislation was introduced by the previous Labor Government but nothing has been done about it. A sum of $210,000 is to be saved from expenditure on cadets. All honourable members will recall what was said about the cadet corps when Government supporters were in Opposition. It is proposed to save $ 1.75m on housing for servicemen through advances to the States. Money will not be given to the States to house servicemen. I ask honourable members to recall this Government's promises to servicemen. 
I turn now to the matter of education. This is important because the statement of savings shows not only where the Government proposes to save money but also how elitist it is. I should have hoped that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who is at the table, would have fought for more reasonable proposals, even though this matter is not directly under his administration. Expenditure on assistance for Vietnamese and Cambodian students is expected to be reduced by $80,000. In other words, 25 per cent of the money previously allocated to help these refugees is to be saved. This is an action by a government which was responsible for many of the refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia. It is proposed to save $276,000 on Aboriginal secondary grants. An amount of $7 1 ,500 is to be saved on Aboriginal study grants and $538,000 is to be saved on assistance for isolated children. There is to be a saving of $419,000 on the adult migrant education program and $983,400 on the child migrant educational program. It is proposed to save more than $4m on these aspects of education. The Government proudly announces these savings on education, especially as they affect Aborigines and migrants. 
In respect of the Universities Commission- an elitist organisation- the total saving is to be $6,750. I ask honourable members to compare that amount with the $4,047,900 to be saved on education generally, especially migrant education and the education of Aboriginal children. Of course we know why the Government has made such proposals- it represents people who benefit from being able to send their children to universities at no cost. The Government also proposes to save $940,000 in its payment of teaching subsidies to mission authorities in the Northern Territory. Honourable members can imagine how the churches would have screamed had the Labor Government reduced payments to the churches by $1,000. This Government is reducing its payments by more than $900,000 yet I have not heard any screams from the church authorities. Expenditure on the National Employment and Training scheme- the NEAT scheme- is to be reduced to result in a saving of $5. lm. A saving of $2m is to be made in expenditure on the Regional Employment Development scheme- the RED scheme- at a time when we have more unemployment than ever before. 
The interest subsidy to the Australian Housing Corporation is to be cut by more than $3m. What a way to save money. People will now have to pay more interest on their housing loans. Bilateral aid to Papua New Guinea is to be cut by $7.2m. Food aid through the Australian Development Assistance Agency by way of food grains is to be cut by $5.3m. This is happening because the Government knows it can sell food grains overseas. It is now suggested that we should be giving away beef cattle instead. A total saving of more than $l6m is estimated for the Department of Foreign Affairs, most of the savings- $ 14m- being achieved through the Australian Development Assistance Agency and not from savings on wasteful expenditure within the Department itself. 
I turn now to the proposed saving of $93m on the Health Insurance Commission. This Commission was established by Act of Parliament in 1973. Much of the discussion on Medibank has been focused, I am sorry to say, almost completely on the cost of financing it. We have the Prime Minister talking about everybody having to pay for Medibank. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is speaking in the same way. I am not for one minute suggesting that we do not have to pay for medical care. Obviously we have to pay for it. It is a question of who pays for it and how the payments are distributed amongst different sections of the community. But let me discuss some of the non-financial aspects of Medibankthe good aspects of Medibank- that are threatened by the proposed changes in the financing of Medibank. 
The most important point about the introduction of Medibank as far as I am concerned is that it has reduced the incentive to doctors to perform unnecessary operations because of the feeforservice factor. That is an important point as far as I am concerned. It has removed the application of a means test in public hospitals in all of the States. Such a test has not applied in the case of Queensland. It has made it possible for people to enter standard wards and there be treated by doctors who are paid on a sessional basis. In standard wards there is no incentive to the medical profession to perform unnecessary surgery. That is one of the most important points that those of us- there were quite a few of us- on this side of the House who are medical practitioners and who helped in the introduction of Medibank in this country tried to bring about. A lot of unnecessary surgery is performed in this country, but relatively little research has been carried out on this matter. In this respect I refer to a couple of points which to me are quite clear cut. 
There is very little difference between the Australian medical profession and the medical profession in corresponding countries- for example, the United States of America or Canada. Let us look at what happens in those countries. They have been able to look at the figures in more detail than we have been able to do so far. All the evidence so far in this country shows quite clearly that the number of operations performed in private hospitals and in the private and intermediate wards of public hospitals is much greater than the number of operations performed on public ward patients. There are two main systems of health insurance in the United States, namely, the health maintenance organisations such as the Kaiser Permanente organisations, and the Blue Cross organisation. The Blue Cross organisation corresponds to the medical funds as they existed previously in Australia and to some extent to Medibank insofar as it applies to private and intermediate ward patients. In other words, the patients pay their doctor for a service and get a refund from the insurance organisation- the Blue Cross organisation- for that service. With respect to the health maintenance organisations- the Kaiser Permanente organisation and similar organisations- a fixed amount is paid to the medical profession, which contracts to provide all the necessary health care to the people who belong to that scheme. So it is obviously in the interests of the medical profession under that sort of scheme to perform as few operations as possible and to have as few people as possible in hospital. 
I am not suggesting that that by itself is the solution. Obviously one could get the extreme position arising where doctors would collect the money and not perform necessary work or not admit people to hospital for necessary care. The advantage in the United States, of course, is that the two systems are running side by side. The important point there is that when one matches exactly as to age, income and previous medical history the people who belong to the health maintenance organisation and the Blue Cross organisation one finds that the number of operations on backs, the number of hysterectomies and the number of tonsillectomies are 2 to  Vh  times as great in the case of those covered by the Blue Cross organisation. In other words, they are 2 to 2Vi times as great in the case of those people on whom it is in a doctor's financial interest to perform an operation. In a study carried out in Winnipeg in Canada the amount of surgery performed on doctors' wives was compared with that carried out on women in the same age group whose husbands were in the same professional bracket and in the same income bracket. In other words, there was a comparison of the incidence of surgical operations involving doctors' wives and the wives of barristers, solicitors, members of Parliament and such like. There was a clear cut difference. Nearly twice as many operations were performed on non-doctors' wives- on the wives of other professional people- than on doctors' wives. I assume that a doctor would be just as keen as a solicitor or banister to have his wife's ailments cured, but it would appear that he is not nearly as keen as the solicitor or the barrister to have her submitted to surgery. 
As the honourable member for Swan has said, cut up. 
Yes, it is because of his professional knowledge. Exactly. The doctor knows that many operations are completely unnecessary. He knows that a large proportion of the hysterectomies are completely unnecessary, that a large proportion of the back operations are completely unnecessary and that a large proportion of the tonsillectomies are completely unnecessary. If it was just that they were unnecessary and cost money it would not be a sufficient ground to get terribly het up about. But unnecessary operations cause morbidity and cause a certain amount of mortality. It is important not to have unnecessary operations. I am sure that the honourable member for Phillip will agree with me when I say that members of the legal profession are less likely to get involved in legal actions that they would have to fund themselves than other similarly placed people outside of the legal profession. In other words, legal practitioners know full well that advice is often given to clients to carry out legal action because there is a benefit to be gained by the legal practitioner out of it. I am sure that the honourable member for Phillip has never fallen into that category, but he will probably agree with me when I say that a certain proportion of the legal profession would act in that way. 
This is exactly what happens in the medical profession. The medical practitioners do the same. I do not know whether they do it consciously. When I was in medical practice I occasionally used to send to a consultant surgeon people whom I believed had no physical condition which would be ameliorated by surgery. I had watched such patients for a long time, but I was not 100 per cent sure about them. So I sent them along to a consultant surgeon. A proportion of them were operated on. I would then ask the surgeon: 'Why did you operate on  Mrs SoandSo?  After all, I think you would probably agree with me that it is not going to do her any good'. He would say: 'If I had not, somebody else would have done so'. But that somebody else would have done so only because a financial benefit was involved. I think that such actions can often be quite subconscious, but there is a clear cut financial benefit involved. 
A very interesting seminar was held on this subject at the Australian National University. The leader of the seminar was Professor Brown from Calgary University in Canada. He compared the cost of health care in Canada, New Zealand and Australia. People from the Department of Health were at the seminar, as was  Mr Austin  Holmes, who is one of the members of the Medibank Review Committee. There were other people at it who obviously have some influence with this Government. I am sure that they were impressed, if they needed to be impressed, with the point that Professor Brown was making, namely, that a large amount of unnecessary medical treatment is carried out if doctors are paid on a fee-for-service basis. 
I would like to interpolate here one point that is not often mentioned. Supporters of the Government and members of the Australian Medical Association and other medical organisations often talk about Canada going broke under its scheme and say that we have the same scheme as Canada. I suggest that one of the important points that people ought to take into account is that the doctors in Canada are paid on a fee-for-service basis even for services provided to standard ward patients in public hospitals, and therefore the cost is unlimited. Firstly, there is no disincentive there to doctors to operate because they are paid on a fee-for-service basis; secondly, a doctor will just call in at a hospital there and say to his patient 'Good afternoon', 'Good morning' or whatever it may be and be entitled to a fee on a fee-for-service basis. That is the scheme New South Wales surgeons are striking for. 
I meant to deal in more detail with the deficit and general economic questions but I got carried away with Medibank because I think it is a most important issue. I hope that when honourable members, especially Government supporters, discuss Medibank they will realise that money is only one part of Medibank. I know that money is all-important in many of the discussions that we have in this Parliament but it is not the only point. The other important thing to be remembered is that after all most doctors who would be affected by changes to the Medibank scheme probably pay something of the order of 65 per cent tax as a marginal tax rate, so the Government in fact recovers two-thirds of the money. Therefore the question of money is not the only point we have to talk about when we talk about Medibank. We have to make sure that Medibank is not changed in such a way that it encourages the unnecessary treatment of patients and the potentially dangerous treatment of patients. 
I would like to make one final point in regard to the Prime Minister's speech which was broadcast on radio and television last night. He made the point that tax indexation makes governments more responsible. In principle I support that proposition. Tax indexation means that there is not an automatic increase in Government revenue. Therefore in theory when a government wants to start a new program or wants to spend more money on defence, immigration or whatever it may be, it has to go out and defend that proposition before the public. That is important in a democracy, but it is not necessarily absolute because deficit financing will obviously also be used. We were a contributing factor here; I am not going to deny this but it is quite obvious that this Government will not reverse the position in the coming Budget- I have no terribly strong objection to deficit financing. I was going to deal with that at greater length in my speech but I was sidetracked onto Medibank. It is important to remember that tax indexation does not make governments more responsible if in fact they can still expend the money on their pet schemes whether they be our pet schemes such as Medibank or schemes to help the rural sector or Cabinet members with which this Government is concerned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the present position regarding probate duty in respect of (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State when property passes to (i) the surviving spouse, (ii) children and (iii) others. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the total cost to the ABC of the defamation action by New South Wales Police Commissioner Hanson against station 2JJ. 
What disciplinary action was taken against any ABC staff members who gave cause for this defamation action. 
What instructions have been given to ABC staff to prevent a recurrence. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any rules preventing television stations increasing the sound level of advertising matter above that of the preceding feature. 
Has there been any evidence of television stations increasing the sound level of advertising. 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board monitor television stations to detect any variation in sound levels. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. In view of the fact that later today the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, will introduce legislation dealing with the election of trade union officials, has he considered the urgent need to introduce legislation to enable contributor members of so-called non-profit voluntary health insurance organisations, such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospitals Contribution Fund to elect their office bearers, let alone do so by secret ballots? Is he aware that neither of these organisations which are registered under Federal legislation has any provision for elections by contributor members to their governing bodies or any other method of participating in the decision making? If he has not yet considered introducing such legislation, will he do so urgently? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and is supplementary to that asked of him by the honourable member for Herbert. Is it not a fact that exservice members with accepted war caused disabilities as distinct from full medical entitlement will no longer be eligible for free medical treatment from their local medical officer but will have to pay a Medibank levy? Is it not a fact that they have been eligible for this treatment ever since the war? Is this not a breach of contract which would never be accepted under obligations incurred under workers compensation legislation? How many ex-service members have such accepted disabilities and what is the total saving to the Government? 
-I shall start by replying to the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  who has just sat down. He probably shares many of the beliefs or false beliefs of other people, not only on the Government side. One is that the Government has now been able to make Medibank pay for itself. It is interesting that that statement should come from a Government member. We have heard repeatedly that the estimated cost of Medibank next year will be somewhere between $ 1,800m and $2,000m. But the maximum saving, including income, of the proposals before us is $8 10m. Therefore, it is an interesting way of approaching the subject to say that if we save $8 10m out of $2,000m we will make Medibank 
S&gt;ay for itself. That would not quite make it pay or itself. 
I intend to speak mainly on Medibank. One of the difficulties about the debate tonight as far as I am concerned is that we are dealing with 10 separate pieces of legislation. I support quite a number of them; I support the idea behind others, even though in some cases I oppose the proposition which has specifically been put on them. I should like to make a few general statements before I get into the specifics of the Medibank debate. I was one of those who participated at great length in the introduction of Medibank when I was  Chairman  of the then Government Members Welfare Committee. We produced Green Papers and White Papers and the scheme was not easy to introduce. I find it rather depressing that it is quite obvious from the remarks of the honourable member for Dawson that he does not really understand what is being introduced today. I am sure this applies to other honourable members on the Government side and also to some honourable members on this side of the House. There has not been enough discussion. 
A report has been presented by the Medibank Review Committee. I know some of the people on that Committee. I think that the people appointed to that Committee were excellent. I disagree with some of the honourable members on my side of the House on that question. I am sure that the propositions of the Committee are reasonable. But it is a huge topic in which it was involved. I am sure that the members of the Committee were not nearly as confident about the predictions made on Medibank as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  appeared to be. He said that the Government would save $810m-$430m from savings in outlay, $330m from the income from the levy and about $50m from other peripheral things, especially workers compensation and third party insurance payments. I am sure that the people who advised the Minister would not have been as specific as that; they would not have come to a decision that $330m would be raised by the levy and $430m would come from savings. The result will depend a lot on how many people leave the system, what kind of people stay in and what kind of people go out. 
I instance the case of single people. They will pay 2.5 per cent of their taxable income as the Medibank levy, up to a $150 maximum. But the point is that they will pay the maximum levy of $150 a year on reaching a taxable income of $120 a week. That means that it will be more tempting for single young people- more single people are young people- to opt out of Medibank. This seems reasonable to me. If single people pay the maximum levy when they reach a salary of $120 a week rather than a salary of about $1 1,000 a year, obviously' a bigger proportion of them will be involved. If the young people opt out of Medibank there will not be a fair cross-section of people who will stay in Medibank and people who will go into private funds. I am now speaking medically. Obviously, if I were an insurer I would much prefer to insure the group of people aged between 16 years, when those people start work, and about 25 years, when they start a family than the groups before or after that age group. So there will not be a nice division by numbers which will work out. I know that some other factors will work the other way. 
I started by speaking about Medibank; but I want, in passing, to make one point on another matter; that is- I will not deal with it for any great length of time- the tax tables and the prose and cons of the benefit figures which were published last week by the Taxation Office on the situations of families with different compositions and different incomes. In comparing the child endowment payments with the tax rebates it was stated that the present rebate is $3.85 a week or $200 a year per child and the difference was calculated on that basis. However, because of the Government's decision to index taxation and to index deductions- for example, for a dependent wife and some other dependants- it is obvious that the indexed rebate for a child next year would have been $226, not $200. Therefore, the difference should have been calculated on an extra $26, which would raise the present endowment by 50c a week for each child. So, although the tax tables published show that people will be 7c or 14c better off, I do not think that is terribly important; nonetheless, for every child in the family people will really be 5c a week worse off than was shown in the published figures. 
I turn now to Medibank. Firstly, I refer to the big point which I think is one of the major points which should have been considered in greater detail by this Government before making the decision to make Medibank pay for itself, as the last honourable member said. I do not believe that it will pay for itself. However, the pros are that in one way or another we are allegedly saving $800m. The cons are that we are adding approximately 3 per cent to the consumer price index. Because of the way in which the consumer price index is calculated at the present time, because of the way in which the Arbitration Commission regards the CPI and certainly because of the way in which the trade unions will regard the CPI even if the Arbitration Commission came to a different decision, we will get an increase at the end of the December quarter this year of 3 per cent plus whatever else we are going to get at that time, depending on inflation. The net result of that will be a significant boost to inflation. I have not calculated the figure but a 3 per cent increase in all award wages adds up to much more than the $800m which is allegedly being withdrawn from the economy. 
Another fundamental point is that fund insurance contributions will not be a tax deduction. The unions will ask for that as a contribution, firstly on the CPI and secondly from employers, as we have seen already today. What has happened in the United States- and we often follow the United States- is that fringe benefits in many organisations and institutions include the Blue Cross or health maintenance organisation subscriptions there. These become a tax deduction as far as the employer is concerned. So the Government comes back into the game. If we have a company tax of 42.5 per cent we are giving a 42.5 per cent subsidy to subscriptions to the fund if the employer pays the subscription instead of the individual subscriber and if the employer is able to reduce his total profit by the amount that he subscribes on behalf of his employees. 
We are withdrawing an additional $800m from circulation which some people will say is a good thing if we are looking at it from the inflation point of view but which must surely be a bad thing from the point of view of increased consumer spending. We are reducing the amount in circulation by the $800m that we talked about before or at least by $760m if we do not include the part that is being paid by the insurance companies. As I see it, terrific difficulties will be encountered in checking membership of the private funds. I made the point earlier today by way of interjection that under the rules which are proposed, if a person decides to join a private health fund that fund will clear him as far as the Taxation Office is concerned. He has to pay only one week's subscription. He does not pay taxation any more after that The Taxation Office may or may not catch up with him at the end of the year. I would say that they would have great difficulty in catching up with him on the basis of Medibank numbers. I do not know just how much privacy there will be or how easy it will be to check up as to whether a person is really a subscriber or only joined the fund for one week. Of course, even if the person has joined for only 1 week, the funds are responsible for payments for 2 months. Since the funds have to accept everybody it will be interesting to see what happens. What happens in the case of a married couple when the wife is about 6 months pregnant? If they pay their subscription for about 6 weeks they will then have all their obstetric expenses paid for by the fund during their 2 months period of grace. They will get all that for a few weeks payments, depending on how certain they are about the actual date of confinement. 
I turn now to more specific points dealing with individual Bills. The National Health Amendment Bill abolishes gap insurance. I think that is a good point. I think it is important that gap insurance should be abolished. It was a ridiculous thing to have in the first instance. In passing, I should like to refer to the inconsistency on the part of the Australian Medical Association. The Australian Medical Association argued, because it got trapped by the funds, that people should take out gap insurance. It was called Medicover in New South Wales; I do not know what it was called in other States but it was, in effect, gap insurance. The doctors put notices up in their waiting rooms asking people to join private funds so as to cover themselves for that 15 per cent gap with a maximum of $5 between the scheduled fee and the amount that could be obtained from Medibank. At the same time they argued, I think with some force- that is why I am supporting the removal of gap insurance- that there ought to be a moiety on the part of the patient. If the patient does not have to pay anything, there is a tendency for the patient unnecessarily to attend a medical practitioner. I think there was a very small proportion of over use but nonetheless there would be an over use if there were no 'patient moiety' as it is called. So on the one hand, the AMA argued in favour of patient moiety and on the other hand encouraged people to take out extra cover for the gap insurance which abolished the patient moiety. I am pleased to say that the Government is now abolishing gap insurance. I should like to raise one point that struck me with regard to the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill. I suppose I should have been a criminal lawyer or a tax adviser or something like that. 
I am not trying to pretend that I have legal knowledge. The position is that instead of paying the 2.5 per cent levy a person can pay a contracting out premium. If that person has dependants he has to pay a $300 premium but if he does not have dependants he has to pay a $150 premium. I am referring to a man on a relatively high taxable income of $9,000 plus. He contracts out by paying his premium of $150. He may have a wife who is not legally dependent on him having an income of around $2,000 to $3,000 a year. She is not classed as a dependent under the taxation legislation, he is not able to claim any deduction for her. Yet she does not have to pay anything into Medibank. There is no levy on her. She has no taxable income when she is earning up to $2,604. So it does not matter even if a wife is earning $3,000 a year, she would only be paying a very small amount of levy. I hope that honourable members can follow that. If they cannot, I hope they can follow it in  Hansard  tomorrow. The net result is that the person can get out of paying his full premium. 
In addition I think there is one other important point which is a general point. This is a first step in the introduction of dealing with joint incomes of husbands and wives. It relates to the proposition that the incomes should be assessed jointly for tax purposes. Back in 1972 or 1971, the present  Speaker,  then Treasurer, got himself into a lot of hot water when he floated that idea not even on the basis of wanting to introduce it but just in an aside or in reply to a comment. I am not necessarily opposing the proposition that there should be taxation on joint incomes. But I think politically it would be a very difficult thing for this Government to sell. 
At this stage I should like to incorporate a Morgan Gallup Poll table published in this week's  Bulletin  which shows that politically the Government has to be careful even though it has another 2 years to run in office because the position now is that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have 47 per cent of the vote and we have 46 per cent of the vote. That is quite a remarkable change in position. I seek leave of the House to have the table incorporated. 
-At this Committee stage of the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1 976I should just like to make 2 points. Broadly speaking, the Opposition agrees with the provisions of the Bill relating to child endowment. It is part of the package in which taxation rebates for children have been removed. Substituted in their stead has been a significant increase in child endowment. The main beneficiaries will be the people on the lowest incomes- the people who at present have not been able to benefit from the tax rebates. The Opposition very strongly supports that proposal. 
The first point I raise is that when tables were published giving comparisons of the whole effect of the package, a comparison was made on the basis of a rebate of $200 for student children. In legislation which we have just passed-an earlier Bill dealing with income tax- in every other case the Government has indexed the rebates. It is obvious that the rebate for children, had it been retained, would also have been indexed. In other words, it is silly to compare the endowment figure with a notional rebate of $3.85 a week per child which the taxpayer now loses- $200 a year. What it should be compared with is $226 a year which would have been the indexed figure. This amounts to $3.85 a week plus 50c which is $4.35 a week. So people will be 50c per week per child worse off than is shown in the published tables. I hope people can follow that reasoning. Therefore the original tables published by the Department and by Treasurer are not fair. 
The second point I should like to raise is a question that has been raised in the newspapers. It concerns maintenance payments with regard to couples who have split up. I cite the case of a woman who has been receiving maintenance payments from her husband or former husband which one assumes have been geared on the basis that they pay for the child's upkeep. Because the father paid for the upkeep he was able to get a taxation rebate of $200 a year for each one of his children. He will now no longer be able to receive that rebate. On the other hand, the woman who is looking after the child will get significantly increased child endowment. I am not necessarily arguing one way or the other. It may well be that because maintenance payments are not indexed as other things in our society are indexed it is fair enough that in the large proportion of cases at least there is a transfer of extra money from the husband to the wife. But generally speaking I thing that individual cases ought to be looked at rather than make this matter a mass transfer where the ex-husband in every case loses his benefit and the mother looking after the child automatically gains that benefit. I cannot see any provision in the legislation under which this position can be interfered with in any way. There is no way for the husband still to claim his rebate. There is no way for the husband to get part of the child endowment if the children are with the mother. Honourable members have probably had letters from individuals pointing out the facts. Letters have been published in the newspapers in which fathers claim that there will be a significant unfair transfer of extra child maintenance from the husband to the wife who is looking after the children. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I have not thought the amendment through completely. Is it proposed that organisations which are presently registered as appropriate organisations and which are not prepared to give the complete cover that is requested under the new proposals or do not have the capacity to give that cover will be deregistered and will not be allowed to provide any part of those services? How does it affect some of the very small organisations? As I recall the annual report some funds have only 1000 to 2000 members. Some of them are lodges. Some of them are in relatively small mining towns. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is present. He would know that some organisations on the west coast of Tasmania at Queenstown would fall into this category. They would be very small organisations which may not be able to provide all the services that are required. Are they automatically deregistered, or is it at the discretion of the Minister? 
-We eliminated the clauses dealing in effect with money going to the States under the hospitals agreement because of certain information which was given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this place this morning. I have been given, an assurance privately, but I would like the Minister to give an undertaking in the Parliament that legislation will be introduced to deal with this in the near future. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by yourself, when you suggested that I interjected. Could I suggest that you might do better if you did not wear that silly wig; you would be able to hear what is going on. 
-Because 9 Bills were debated cognately, I would like to remind the Committee that the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill amends the Income Tax Assessment Act to provide for the payment, in appropriate circumstances, of the health insurance levy and for its collection in conjunction with income tax. The Bill provides exemptions from the levy for low income earners. It grants exemptions to taxpayers who, in respect of themselves and their dependants, if any, pay an appropriate premium to Medibank or who nave appropriate insurance cover with a registered health benefit organisation. Relief is provided for certain repatriation beneficiaries and defence force personnel. That is what the Bill deals with. It is really the main Bill which introduces the changes to Medibank. 
I would like to make a number of points on this Bill. The first point is that the Opposition has decided to oppose this Bill, even though we wanted to introduce a 1.35 per cent levy in 1974. In other words, there has been a reversal of position, superficially at least, in that the Government when in Opposition opposed the introduction of a levy but is now in favour of it. The position is not simply that the positions have been reversed, because our proposal was for a 1.35 per cent levy on everybody to a maximum, at that stage, $150 premium per family. There was no method of contracting out under our proposal, as the Committee may recall. There was no provision for people to contract out, which would divide the Australian population into those who were covered by and contributed to Medibank and those who joined one of the private health insurance organisations. That is, of course, a major part of the new proposal. That is the reason why we are opposing it. 
I think that there are important issues to be raised in this regard. There are 2 aims, I would think, as far as health insurance is concerned, which must be taken into account by the Government, by the Opposition and certainly by the people who make the decisions. I think the basic aim must be to provide the best possible health care at the least possible expense. I think most people would agree with that. Our objection is that we do not think this will happen. The two may go together. I believe that in our case they did. People in the Government rant about the way in which the cost of Medibank has got out of control. I make one point to them. It is an important point. The cost of Medibank this year is $80m to $90m less than was estimated. There has been a reduction. A week or two ago the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  produced a table which showed certain savings. The saving in Medibank was the main saving, but it was not a saving on the part of the new Government because of specific changes which it had introduced. It was a saving because the cost of Medibank was less than had been estimated. I think that is an important point. 
The second point which I would like to emphasise is to some extent directed to the supporters of the Opposition, both inside this Parliament and outside this Parliament. It is important that we do not suggest that the public ward sector of health care is second class. It is not. 
I am not suggesting that the Minister has done so, but there are people outside this Parliament who have. People are saying that there will be 2 sectors of health care. To some extent, of course, there have always been 2 sectors of health care because there was nothing to stop people subscribing to private insurance funds for private or intermediate hospital care until now. There will be now encouragement for people to do so, and I think that is wrong. What it basically amounts to is this: If you took this to its logical conclusion you could say that in the field of education everybody in the community pays an education levy so that they can have their children educated at school, but once a certain point is reached you can contract out and not pay the education levy but instead pay to have your children educated at a private school. 
-The Minister may consider it to be a good idea; I do not think the Australian population as a whole would necessarily agree with him. I do not think that is the policy of the Government at this stage. It is a similar sort of proposition. I also want to compare the health care situation with that of education, because very few people in the community would now argue aggressively that public school education is second class education, that state school education is not as good as private school education. I certainly take the opposite view. Obviously there are people supporting one or other side of the argument and who feel strongly that the particular system they support is better or that the other system is worse, but you would not get unanimity on that. 
I think the same argument applies in relation to health care, but I think it is even more important to realise that public ward health care which is in fact public hospital health care, is better than private hospital health care. If a person had some major health problem which required a major operation and he finished up in an intensive care ward, I am sure he would not like to be in a private hospital and he would not like any members of his family to be in a private hospital. All the important and difficult operations and treatments are in fact carried out in public hospitals; they are carried out by public hospital salaried personnel. Very few people would argue that they would rather obtain that treatment in a private hospital. 
I therefore would argue very strongly that public ward care- standard care, as it is called in the legislation- is better care. If my child were seriously ill and had to be admitted to a hospital, I would much prefer my child to be in a public ward of the children's hospital. I would much prefer my child to have the treatment and the facilities of the public sector in that hospital. It may be that a person who does not have very much wrong with him or is recovering from some illness, may prefer to be in a private ward so he can have a telephone, so he can read, so he is not disturbed, so he can have visitors. But if a person is seriously ill and needs all of the facilities that modern science and modern medicine can provide, I am sure that he, and most of us, if we think about it, would much prefer to have public hospital care. 
The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  who is at the table has heard me ask a question relating to the exemption for repatriation beneficiaries who are completely covered for all medical treatment. There is no exemption for those who are covered for all medical treatment. There is no exemption for those who are covered for only some treatment, and they do not any longer get any benefit. In fact, they have lost the benefit of free treatment for a particular condition or for a number of particular conditions. 
I want to make one final, but nonetheless important, point. It is concerned with people insuring themselves for private care. I urge those people who want to be covered for private care to think about the matter on a logical basis. They will be much better off staying in Medibank, and in many cases they will be much better off not taking out any private insurance. After all, if you work it out on any sort of actuarial basis, which the funds must do, you will find that if you join a private insurance fund- contributions to private insurance funds will no longer be a tax deductionyou are paying for the chance of taking advantage of that insurance cover, plus the admininstrative expenses of the fund. You are paying for the lot. You are paying more than you are likely, on the average, to have to pay. On the other hand, if you cover yourself by staying in Medibank and take the risk that you may have to pay out of your own pocket if extra private care is needed, you are not paying for the administrative costs of private funds, and the Government will subsidise you to the extent of 40 per cent because actual hospital expenses will be deductible from tax liability in future and you will receive the 40 per cent rebate. 
-I wish to correct a statement which I made yesterday. Speaking in the cognate debate last night, I congratulated the Government on abolishing gap insurance, which is insurance covering the 15 per cent gap up to a $5 maximum. I understood that that insurance had been abolished. It should never have been introduced. I am informed by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the departmental advisers that that insurance will still exist. It is a great pity. A prospectus for that insurance could be produced by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in his previous capacity. The maximum amount which a person can receive from that insurance is $5. That is the maximum amount for which one insures oneself. The health funds have been charging $1.86 a week for that. A person would need to have an operation every 3 weeks to come out square. Nobody needs that type of insurance. It is a great pity that the Government will continue to allow that sort of gap insurance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
It is difficult to pick exactly the specific clause to which I should relate my remarks, but I refer to the Minister's comments in his second reading speech on section 18, 1 think it is, of the principal Act. He makes a number of points: 
A number of cases have been revealed where services are being charged to Medibank which, because of the circumstances in which they are provided, do not warrant the payment of the usual Medibank benefit. The Bill provides that the Minister may refer such cases to the Medical Benefits Advisory Committee. If the Committee recommends that medical benefits should not be paid in particular circumstances, regulations may be promulgated to provide that the benefits are not payable. 
I support that proposition and draw the attention of the House to the rackets that have obviously been started by medical practitioners. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  referred to some of them. I understand that the Valentine health studios in Sydney was bought by a medical practitioner. Before a person is enrolled for his slimming course or body building course, he is put through all kinds of involved medical tests and the cost of all of those tests is charged to the Department. That, of course, can still be done under the present proposal. I am happy to say that the Minister will be able to refuse payment. I am not sure whether the funds will be able to refuse payment. I have no objection to the funds paying Valentine studios, as long as the taxpayers do not pay Valentine studios. Maybe from now on health studios will give preference to people who are covered under the private health insurance scheme. I sincerely hope so. Maybe that will be an encouragement for people to join private health insurance schemes, because in addition to their health insurance cover they will also be able to get cover from body building studios. 
-An ancillary benefit to the medical benefits fund. One point I wanted to raise also refers to section 18 of the original Health Insurance Act. I must admit that I cannot quite follow the argument of the Minister. In his second reading speech he states: 
Section 1 8 of the Health Insurance Act at present prevents the payment of benefits for diagnostic services- pathology and radiology- to private patients in recognised hospitals. This section was a product of the previous Government's vendetta - 
That is the way in which the Minister put it- against private practice in hospitals and has caused serious anomalies. As a result the provision of diagnostic services has been impaired in many public hospitals. The Bill provides therefore for the repeal of this section. 
I have no objection to visiting radiologists, pathologists and others receiving a reasonable remuneration for treating private patients in public hospitals. What I would like to point out, however, is that it would be completely unfair for visiting pathologists and radiologists to be able to collect huge fees for work done by hospital staff. I hope that some equitable method is found by which to avoid that situation, because the work is actually done by hospital staff who are paid by the State governments or the Hospitals or Health Services Commission, or whatever it may be. It would be quite silly and quite unfair if, in addition to that, the taxpayer in this case or, in the other cases, the funds, had to pay the pathologist and radiologist as if all the work had been carried out by him in his own laboratory or in his own radiology setup. I hope that the Minister will look into this matter. I am not sure exactly what the proposal is in relation to the rate people will be paid in this regard. 
I congratulate the Government on its introduction of a proposal to charge certain amounts of money, both for medical and hospital services, to workers compensation and third party insurance companies. It was completely unfair that we were not able to do that because of the opposition of the then Opposition which refused to allow us to change the legislation. At the same time, the same point arises which arose on the general arguments in relation to Medibank levies, and that is the question of increases in the consumer price index. In New South Wales a commission is dealing with workers compensation insurance companies, and that commission has in fact reduced the levy on employers because the insurance companies no longer had to pay that benefit Now, I take it, if we collect money from the insurance companies, the insurance companies in turn will collect it from the employer and the employer in turn will collect it from the consumer; and therefore it will be added to the consumer price index. I note that in principle it is obviously unfair for the insurance companies to get away with it. At the same time, if the net result is just an increase in the consumer price index, which spreads throughout the whole community, I am not sure that there is any benefit to be gained. That is one of the points I raised yesterday when I urged the Minister to put the Bill on the table, so to speak, and perhaps have one of our committees look at the proposed legislation in greater detail. 
The final point I would like to make on this Bill in the Committee stage is to congratulate the Minister on another proposal; In his second reading speech the Minister states: 
Morever  there is a clear need to control cost escalations that are not related to benefits and to ensure that as much value as possible is obtained for the money spent in both the public and the private sectors. Doctors play a key role in determining overall costs because it is largely they who make the decisions to put patients into hospitals, the length of stay, the need for and nature of operations or other courses of treatment. 
It is a terribly important point that has to be emphasised and re-emphasised. In that sense, because there are medical practitioners very prominent in the running of some funds- for example, the Medical Benefits Fund of New South Wales- one would hopefully see arising out of the changes some pressure by the funds on the medical profession to restrain themselves as far as expenditure is concerned. It is terribly important to emphasise again and again that the main unnecessary cost in Medibank by far is doctor induced, either for good reasons or for bad reasons. By that I mean it is just a waste of money, or doctors are trying to line their own pockets. 
As far as the taxpayers are concerned, I do not suppose it matters what the reason for the rise in cost is, but it is important to try to prevent it as much as possible. Last Tuesday, I think it was, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  and I, as members of the Opposition's welfare committee, met with delegates of the Australian Hospitals Association. The Association made a submission to the Medibank Review Committee in which it pointed out that 90 per cent of unnecessary medical treatment and so on was doctor induced. I am sure that, if anything, that is a conservative estimate. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation. It is very similar to legislation which we introduced ourselves and which was rejected by the Senate the year before last and again last year. Specifically it makes it possible to have some influence on the private so-called non-profit health insurance funds without actually deregistering them. Honourable members who participated in the discussion on this matter previously will probably be aware that under the current legislation which is about to be amended the only power that the Minister has to deal with a fund is to deregister it completely. This is an awkward thing to do. Potentially it could be unfair to the contributors, and chaos could be caused if a fund were suddenly deregistered. Yet certainly the previous Government got no co-operation from many of the administrators of these funds. 
I compliment the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on introducing this legislation and on taking notice of what the Australian Labor Party tried to do in the past. Under this legislation it will be possible, if in the opinion of the Minister it is necessary to do so, to apply to the court to appoint an administrator of a fund. I think 'judicial manager' is the term used in the Bill. This will enable a fund to be taken over without interfering with the benefits to the contributors. I have some reservations, for example, about the Minister for Local Government in New South Wales having such power over municipal councils because those councils are elected by the residents of the area. This does not apply in the case of the health insurance funds. Many of them in New South Wales, certainly the two main funds in New South Wales- the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospital Contributions Fund of Australia- and similarly in the other States, have no provision for contributors to have any say in their running. There was a specific exclusion clause preventing contributors to the Medical Benefits Fund, for example, knowing when a general meeting is to take place. 
The only people who have a say in electing the council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia are the so-called medical contributors. The medical contributors are defined as medical practitioners who are members of the Medical Benefits Fund and who additionally have been chosen by the council of the Medical Benefits Fund to be medical contributors. In other words, the present council of the Medical Benefits Fund decides which doctors should be entitled to have a vote in the next election for the council. It is not surprising that there has been no opposition in any of the elections. When I was a member of the Medical Benefits Fund, surprisingly enough I was never invited as a medical practitioner to become one of the medical contributors. The important thing is that the only people who can nominate for election and the only people who can vote are those medical contributors. 
This is obviously ridiculous, and it is terribly important that the Minister have some control over the funds. He will be able to do this if he applies his good faith to the task and puts pressure on the funds by saying: 'If you are not going to let contributors have a say in the running of the fund or if you are running the fund unsatisfactorily' the way the Medical Benefits Fund has been run up to now- 'we will apply to have an administrator appointed to the fund'. I will be very happy to act as an administrator in a nocharge capacity. 
I wish to raise another point on the same issue. I can see some difficulties. Let us take a small fund covering a small area such as a mining town which is going out of existence. It has a large proportion of elderly people, and very few of the young people who are the good risks as far as health insurance is concerned. Compare the would- be obligations of such a fund with the obligations of a large fund in a metropolitan area where a large proportion of the people would be those between say 16 and 25 years who would require hardly any medical services. There are not many of those sorts of contributors in some small mining towns. Funds in these sorts of towns could easily get into difficulties. I was wondering whether any discretion could be vested in the Minister. I do not generally support such a proposition. We should not eliminate some of these very efficient funds which will not have the capacity, because of lack of contributors who will be non-receivers of insurance benefits, to perform the services which are required under this legislation. 
I would like to make one short point, that is, that the Government's hypocrisy in regard to this legislation is shown quite clearly in these clauses dealing with trade union ballots. The Government claims it is concerned about having trade unions represented by the people who really represent the unionists. That is fair enough. If the Government believes this legislation will bring this about it should introduce it, but the Government is not going to do that. It is going to pass this legislation and suspend it. It is going to do a deal with the very trade union leaders that it claims are not representative of the rank and file. It is going to say to them: 'Provided you do the sort of thing we want you to do, we do not care whether you represent the rank and file or not. You can stay in office. We are not really concerned about getting into these positions people who are really representative of trade unionists. All we want in these positions are people who are prepared to give in on the basis that they might lose their jobs if a different method of ballot is introduced. ' 
I hope that the leadership of trade unions will look beyond any short term personal benefits that might arise by caving in to the Government at the present time because the Government does not intend to have this legislation proclaimed. I hope the leadership has confidence in the rank and file, and if there is a worthwhile case after meeting with the Government, I hope they will stand up against the sort of propositions that the Government is putting to them. I hope they will be prepared to stand for election under legislation including secret ballots. I criticise the Government very strongly for the utter and complete hypocrisy of threatening trade unions with having clean ballots, but saying at the same time that if the leadership caves in it will not insist on clean ballots. 
I would like to speak for just a very few minutes. Firstly, I would like to deal more specifically, not with the general question of Medibank and the changes in Medibank, but with the specific point dealt with by this legislation, namely, the relationship of the Commonwealth with the States in respect of payment for hospital services. In passing I think it is interesting to note that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  admits that the saving from dropouts from Medibank will be $430m in the coming year. This is the saving out of a total of $ 1,800m or more. Yet, at the same time, he predicts that 50 per cent or 60 per cent of people will drop out of Medibank. So the loss of 50 per cent or 60 per cent of people will save only that small amount. 
I would like to make a more specific point in respect of the arguments that the Government is putting up on the question of open endedness and the excessive cost of Medibank. This year Medibank spent $93m less than was estimated. Page 39 of the Treasury information paper entitled 'Statement of Savings Expectedin Annual Appropriations' tabled by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  so proudly on 28 April, shows that the largest saving of the whole lot is $93 m by which the expenditure of Medibank was overestimated. That is point No. 1. The Minister cannot say that the scheme got out of control because in fact less money was spent. 
I know, but nonetheless it was over estimated. So we will have spent about $ 1,350m by 30 June-this is the total cost of Medibank- and some of the States did not come in until 1 October. The estimate for next year is $ 1,800m, with all the States in for the full 12 months and including the cost of inflation. I do not think the cost has run out of control more than have most other costs in the community. May I ask the Minister for Health a question? I am sure he does not have the answer to it. What will be the gain to the Government from the abolition of tax deductions for health fund contributions at the present time? Can I make one further point- about the continuing reference to open-ended hospital agreements. It is alleged that there are open-ended hospital agreements with the States. In fact Medibank could cost more and yet be a saving to the community and to the public at large. The Government would save public money if people went into public wards. 
I ask the  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  to agree to my having one minute more in which to speak because this is a significant point that ought to be put on record. I hope the Minister will be able to follow me when I say this: The Government in theory could spend more money under its arrangements with the States yet the total cost would be less if a larger proportion of the people than estimated opted for standard ward treatment and for being treated by doctors who are paid sessional fees and salaries. Then there would be an increase in the cost of hospitals to the Australian Government and to the State governments yet the total cost would be less because people would be paying for private and intermediate beds. There would be no money going to doctors for the services provided there on a fee for service basis and there would be much less unnecessary surgery, as I have pointed out in the past. There could be an increase in costs so far as the Australian Government and State governments are concerned yet a total desirable reduction in expenditure. I put those points on record because I think they are relevant. There are many people discussing this legislation and passing this legislation in this Parliament without really understanding what it is all about. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What is the cost of the coats-of-arms for the new Law Courts building in Sydney. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did German and Australian negotiators meet in Bonn on 26 and 27 May 1975 to discuss a German-Australian Agreement on social security. 
Has the Australian Government replied in writing to the German proposals. 
Is it a fact that many Australian citizens formerly of German nationality have been greatly disadvantaged because of the present position where Germans lose their entitlement to their contributory social security system when opting for Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Will he provide an estimate of the cost to revenue in the Australian Capital Territory during the year 1974-75 of the exemption from rates of property occupied by religious institutions, for religious or educational purposes. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement in  Muster  of March 1976, prepared by the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council, that (a) tariffs deprived wool and grain producers of an estimated $543m in revenue in 1973-74, (b) without tariffs wool prices would be at least 40c/kg clean higher and (c) between 1960 and 1972 Australia had the slowest rate of growth of Gross Domestic Product traded internationally of all major developed countries. 
If so, are these statements correct. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are employees sometimes unable to receive salaries and long service leave payments in cases of liquidation and bankruptcy because of the prior right of the Commissioner for Taxation under section 22 IP of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
If so, will he consider taking steps to alleviate this hardship on employees. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Will he provide a list of all VIP Flights undertaken by No. 34 Squadron RAAF since 1 December 197S giving (a) the origin and destination of each flight, (b) the names of all persons carried, (c) the purpose of the flight and (d) the scheduled time of the nearest commercial flight over the same route. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What changes have been made in the weighting of the Consumer Price Index since December 1 968. 
What was the relative weighting of each of the components at (a) December 1 968 and (b) December 1 973. 
What are the relative weightings at the present time. 
-I would just like to address my remarks very briefly to clause 4 of the Bill which deals with the prevention of the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco. Whilst in my own mind I have philosophical reservations, firstly about whether one is ever entitled to prevent that sort of advertising, and secondly about the efficacy of the prevention of that sort of advertising, I certainly am not going to oppose clause 4 of the Bill. But it seems much more rational to me- and I hope to other members of this House- that the way to persuade people not to use tobacco, not to smoke, or not to do any of the things which a community as a whole feels should not be done, is not by prohibition or by prohibiting the mentioning of them on radio, television, or in other media but by active education, propaganda and advertising against these things. My own view is that it would be much more reasonable and rational and effective to force radio and television stations to use at least part or all of the revenue they receive from advertising tobacco for the purposes of exposing the ill effects of smoking and possibly other things. It was quite depressing for me when I saw, for example, in Appropriation Bill No. ( 1 ) which was introduced last night that no more money would be spent by this Government on anti-smoking campaigns. I am not an expert on those campaigns but the name that comes to my mind is  Dr Nigel  Gray of the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria who has done a terrific job. To my mind the Council has spent the money efficiently. It received a lot of free publicity for its campaign because it has been a good and effective campaign. It is a great pity that the Government feels that it should no longer subsidise anti-smoking campaigns. I will return to this topic when we are actually discussing Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). 
In the second reading of the speech the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said: 
It has also been decided to amend clause 4 in respect of the provision to ban the advertising of cigarettes or cigarette tobacco on broadcasting and television because the Bill as previously drafted may not have made it possible for anticigarette advertising to be broadcast or televised if it was considered desirable to do so. 
My own view is that it is desirable to do so. I therefore support the amendments which have been introduced. I ask the Minister to draw to the attention of the appropriate Ministers in the Cabinet what to my mind is a contradiction or at least something which is being left in mid-air. We decided as a parliament that smoking tobacco is bad. I suppose we must think it very strongly and we must think it is evil otherwise we would not go to what to me is the extreme step of saying that you cannot advertise it any longer or that you cannot mention it on television and radio. Having said that we wash our hands and do not do anything more about it. We are not even going to spend $75,000 which was the amount spent last year to educate people as to why they should not smoke. It does not seem right to me. I would hope that as a result of my mentioning this in the House today it may be drawn to the attention of the appropriate Ministers to see whether they can persuade the Cabinet that if a point is important enough to lead to banning- which should be the very last step in a democratic society- then there must be some intermediate or additional point where rational arguments are used to try to prevent people from doing certain things which are considered to be wrong either in their own interests or in the interests of the society. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What government and non-government schools and systems in the Electoral Division of Prospect have received assistance from the Australian Government through each of the various programs operated by the Schools Commission. 
How much did each organisation receive in the year 1974-75. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How much Australian Government freight between (a) Sydney and Canberra and (b) Melbourne and Canberra is carried by (i) Commonwealth road transport, (ii) private transport and (iii) rail. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many full-time personnel in each of the 3 armed services were involved (a) part-time and (b) full-time in activities associated with (i) the school cadet corps (ii) the air training corps and (iii) the naval reserve cadets corps in each of the last 5 financial years. 
What was the (a) direct and (b) indirect cost of providing personnel and facilities to service (i) the school cadet corps, (ii) the air training corps and (iii) the naval reserve cadets in each of the last 5 financial years. 
How many ex-members of the cadet corps or reserve cadets went on to join the armed services in each of those financial years. 
What proportion of the membership of each of the defence services is comprised of ex-cadet corps or ex-reserve cadet personnel. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  state that he had not made and did not feel that he should make requests for expenditure on matters such as a government centre at Parramatta, the National Estate and other benefits for his area. From reading the local Press, one would get a different impression. I am glad he has now officially confirmed in this House that he does not try to get extra money for his area and that he has no intention of doing so. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that the Budget is not all important, that economic control and monitoring should be continuous, that it is ridiculous to decide to do it all in one sweep. The Budget gives the Treasury and the Treasurer a moment of glory. With all that ego at stake, there is obviously no end in sight for Budget night. Was it not a boring evening, a speech containing about one-third factual information from Phillip Lynch? It must be the first time that there has been so much factual information in any speech by the Treasurer. I much prefer it when he tosses the jargon and platitudes. How much more enjoyable it is to hear his gems. What a thrill it must have been for the businessmen at the Sydney Opera House on 19 August to hear him reach a climax and to conclude his speech by saying: 
We have put free enterprise on a sound batting wicket. It is now up to business to put the runs on the board. 
What a brilliant statement, what a brilliant speech on his part! Many Government members have repeatedly emphasised in the Budget debate that, on the one hand, the Government is spending more money; on the other hand, the Government is collecting less money; thirdly, the deficit is shrinking. They must think that the people are stupid. I do not suppose the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has the highest IQ, even on the Government benches, but when he spoke this afternoon I was not sure whether he was too unintelligent to see what was happening or whether he was trying to pull the wool over people's eyes. I am afraid that he is too unintelligent to see what is happening. The Government stated during the election campaign, and the Treasurer stated again in his Budget Speech, as reported on page 1 3 of  Hansard  of 17 August, that money is best in people's pockets and that people should make their own decisions on how the money should be spent. Broadly speaking, this is probably one of the main reasons that the Liberal and National Country Parties are in government. They were able to criticise the Labor Government, I do not think justifiably but reasonably, and to convince the people that they were paying too much in taxation and that it would be better to keep the money in the people 's pockets. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech said that the Government believes that Australians should have more scope to decide what they want in the context of having the money for themselves to spend. Let us look at the Treasurer's speech. What has the Budget in fact brought about? Page 143 of  Hansard  of Tuesday, 17 August, sets out the estimates of receipts. They show an increase over 1975-76 of $ 1,755m in net payasyouearn tax receipts from people on wages and salaries. There is to be a 24.7 per cent increase in tax collected by the Australian Government from those people. This compares with an increase of less than $ 1,000m in 1975-76. When the Australian Labor Party was in Government the then Opposition accused it of increasing taxation far too quickly. I am sure the people believed that those in Opposition then were right, but how hostile will they get when they realise that between now and the end of this year the Government will be almost doubling the rate of increase in taxation? Even Peter Samuel, who hardly ever criticises the Government, takes the same line as I do at present in an article in today's  Bulletin,  a very pro-Government publication. Let me repeat the figures. The net increase in pay-as-you-earn taxation this year will be $ 1,755m, an increase of 24.7 per cent. This compares with an increase of $332m, or 1 5. 1 per cent, in taxation receipts from other individuals, self-employed individuals. It is quite clear that the wage and salary earner will be bearing the main burden of the extra taxation. His tax is going up by 24.7 per cent; the selfemployed individual faces an increase of only- I put 'only' in inverted commas- 15.1 per cent in tax. 
How can the Government expect there to be an increase in consumption by the people if in fact it is leaving them with less money? In addition to withdrawing all that extra money in taxation, the Government is withdrawing extra money for Medibank. The amounts I have given include $2 50m for Medibank, to be paid by those expected to remain in the scheme and to pay the 2.5 per cent levy on income. But it does not include all the other payments to be extracted from people's pockets, beginning on 1 October 1976, for additional health cover in its various forms, whether additional intermediate cover under Medibank or complete cover outside 
Medibank. Some extra hundreds of millions of dollars will be withdrawn from consumption. 
This is after tax indexation. Hopefully the honourable member for Higgins is not one of those with the IQ of the honourable member for La Trobe. 
I invite the honourable member to look at page 143 of  Hansard  of 17 August. It shows a huge increase in the amount of money to be withdrawn from people's pockets. Last Tuesday night the Treasurer was able to get across a message of confidence telling us how there would be an increase in consumption because he said so. I think the honourable member for Melbourne Ports referred to this point this afternoon when he talked about the longevity of confidence. Let us look at how long the confidence exhibited by the Treasurer lasted. Admittedly, on Wednesday of last week there was a big improvement in share prices. There was a significant jump in share prices, but how long did all this confidence last? In yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  the headline in the finance and business section states: 'Index back to pre-Budget levels again'. The ensuing article states: 
Another widespread price slide on the Sydney Exchange yesterday brought the market back to pre-Budget levels, with the all-ordinaries index down 4.83 points to 316.05 points. 
It has dropped further since then. Let us look at what that strongly biased, pro-Labor paper, the  Australian,  said on Monday, 23 August, in an article written by  Mr Russell  Barton. We all know that  Mr Murdoch  does not interfere with the politics of that newspaper, but until last Monday the  Australian  was supporting the Budget. I will quote at length from the comments 2 days ago by Russell Barton, which is probably a pseudonym for Rupert Murdoch. Under the headline 'The Budget's disappointment' the newspaper states: 
Now that the dust has settled after  Mr Lynch  's first Budget speech it is appropriate to examine some of the disappointments, and the figures behind it. 
The two greatest letdowns of the 1976 Budget were the absence of any direct stimulation to consumer spending and, on the company side, the deferral of the 50 per cent stock valuation adjustment for a further 12 months. 
Apart from pension increases, which cannot be expected to spark an upturn in consumer activity, there was nothing to lever individuals' money from the savings banks and building societies. 
Many businessmen were hoping that the Fraser Government would be brave enough to make a real attack on inflationparticularly in view of all the drum-beating which has come from Canberra on the subject- and slice, the top off sales and excise taxes. 
Sydney-based corporate consultants David Block and Associates have estimated that a 10 per cent cut in total sales and excise taxes would have cost the Government $400m in the current year- raising the total projected deficit from $2600m to $3000m. 
If the Government had been able to overcome its obsession with the deficit figure such a cut would have returned much more in terms of economic revival, on two fronts. 
It would have had a significant impact on the consumer price index and provided real stimulus to consumer spending in both physical and psychological senses. 
Surely honourable members opposite would broadly agree with this criticism of the Budget. 
I did in 1972. The newspaper article goes on: 
But good as tax indexation may be it will not halt the steady expansion of the personal tax base. As a proportion of total tax revenue, personal income tax has risen from 47.5 per cent in 1972 to 54.7 per cent in 1976. And the estimate for the 1977 financial year - 
That is the first year the new Government is controlling- is 56.7 percent. 
That is an increase of another 2 per cent. This is from a Government that talks about leaving money in the people's pockets and letting them decide for themselves how to spend it. What an interesting point. 
-I will in a minute. I have the material ready.  Mr Russell  Barton goes on to say: 
As the current year progresses companies are likely to find that the promises of recovery held in the initial reading of the Budget are mirages. 
Without a solid upturn in consumer demand, which has not been attended to in this Budget, they will begin to realise just how long it is until 1978, when they will receive some benefit from the stock valuation adjustment. 
This is from Rupert Murdoch's newspaper, the  Australian,  on Monday. On top of that, to interfere with consumer spending we have had a withdrawal of tax exemptions. In a few minutes I will deal with the increases in child endowment. First let me deal with the sorts of things that have become taxable since 1 July 1976. They include pensions for persons below age pension age and unemployment and sickness benefit. The tax rebate for children has been withdrawn. Pensions which will now become subject to tax irrespective of the age of the person to whom they are paid are (1) widows pensions, (2) supporting mothers benefits, (3) Service pensions other than those equivalent to invalid pensions and (4) unemployment benefit, sickness benefit and special benefits: All these benefits will now become taxable. 
I turn now to the deficit. I think that in any case the deficit is fictitious. It was a fictitious figure that we heard from the Treasurer the other day. I do not have the support staff to enable me to go into all the figures in great detail but I will cite 5 examples which seem very obvious to me of where the Government has underestimated expenditure quite significantly. I am sure that there are many other examples as obviously I am not aware of all the points. The first example is the tertiary education assistance scheme. The Government has already said, and it has repeated now, that in October this year it will make an announcement to the effect that there will be a significant increase in the tertiary education assistance scheme allowance, but no provision has been made in the Budget for an increase. Obviously extra expenditure will be incurred. No provision has been made for extra expenditure on nursing home benefits. I can just see, when the nursing home proprietors again threaten to put patients out on the streets, how quickly the Government will cave in and increase nursing home benefits. I turn to the unemployment benefit. The estimated figure in the Budget is based on a 25 per cent reduction in unemployment. Even in its wildest dreams the Government does not really expect a 25 per cent reduction in unemployment and it will obviously have to provide extra money for the unemployment benefit. 
University expenditure has not been increased to cover the increases in academic salaries that have now been recommended by the Academic Salaries Review Tribunal. It appears that the Government will increase academic salaries but it has made no provision for those payments in the Budget. Finally- it is final only as far as I am concerned, because there must be many other areas- there are the changes in Medibank. Since the Budget there have already been announcements of further changes in Medibank. There will now be no 2.5 per cent Medibank levy collection from people who are at present eligible for pensioner medical service benefits, yet this will obviously cost money. In order to remove those people from liability for the levy the legislation will have to be altered in the next few days. I note that yesterday, in reply to a question in the Senate,  Senator Guilfoyle  suggested that other people who felt badly done by in relation to the 2.5 per cent levy and who felt that they could not afford to pay it, could make representations. Apparently, provided they are supported by a Liberal member of Parliament or maybe by members of the clergy, civil marriage celebrants or some other appropriate persons, they will not have to pay the 2.5 per cent levy. The only point I am making there is that this will be an extra cost because the Medibank collections will be less than the $250m estimated. 
Now let me deal with the withdrawal of the tax rebate for children and the introduction of the increased child endowment. Almost every  speaker  on the Government side has repeated the proposition that this is a tremendous benefit for all Australian people. I do not oppose what has been done but the point I would like to make is that the vast majority of Australian parents will be worse off. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received one or more reports from  Mr Justice  Hope on the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
Will these reports be tabled. 
Will he arrange for the House to be able to debate the reports. 
-Since the beginning of the year I have been a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. The Committee has been looking at young people who have just finished school and who apparently are not able to reach certain literary and mathematical standards which are required to enable them to play their role in our society. 
I was interested to read what was said by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  during the adjournment debate last night. I read recently in another publication that the honourable gentleman was an engineer before he came into this House. The person whom one would expect to have some mathematical ability apparently has none. 
Maybe he used a calculator or slide rule but he did not have it with him yesterday. Alternatively, he came into this House for the very reason that he was unable to do his mathematics. When speaking during the adjournment debate last night he referred to the effect of the exchange of tax rebates in respect of children for the new higher family allowances and he gave some peculiar figures. He admitted that families were 80c worse off with one child, then he said that they would be 30c better off with 2 children, and so on. Honourable members who are interested might like to read his comments which appear at page 93 of yesterday's Hansard. 
I shall try to explain very simply to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro- it is only a matter of simple addition and a little subtractionjust where he went wrong. The tax rebate for children last year was $200 for each child. This year with indexation it was proposed that it would be $226 for each child. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his statement of 22 May referred to that. In fact, he quoted the figure of $226 to cover such things as a zone allowance for living in certain areas of this country. So the tax rebate that has been abolished was $226 per annum. That is exactly 4.35 a week. If the Government had not introduced its new child endowment scheme and abolished the tax rebate, a family with one child could have claimed $4.35 a week as a tax rebate plus 50c for the first child, making a total of $4.85 a week. Now a family with one child will receive child endowment at the rate of $3.50 a week, a loss of $1.35 a week. I think the honourable member for Eden-Monaro should be able to follow the figures for one child. 
Under the previous arrangement, the calculation for a family with 2 children was twice the $4.35 a week tax rebate, which equals $8.70, plus one lot of child endowment at 50c a week and another at $1 a week, totalling $10.20 a week. Now, under the new system, the child endowment rate is $3.50 for the first child and $5 for the second child, totalling $8.50. This represents a loss, under the new system, of $1.70 a week for a family with 2 children. Under the previous system a family with 3 children would have received 3 times the $4.35 a week tax rebate, which equals $13.05, plus the total child endowment to which they would have been entitled of $3.50 a week, making a total amount of $16.55. Under the new system a family with 3 children will receive $14.50 a week, a loss of $2.05c. Hopefully the honourable member for Eden-Monaro could make the appropriate calculations for families with 4, 5 and 6 children but I shall give him the figures for a family with 4 children. Under the previous system 4 times the $4.35 a week tax rebate would equal $17.40, which with the child endowment entitlement added would amount to $23.15 a week. The new child endowment rate for such a family is $20.50 a week, which represents a loss of $2.65 a week. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Treasurer: Is Professor Warren Hogan, Professor of Economics at Sydney University, a prominent member of the self-appointed anti-inflation committee which encourages people to work harder for less? Has the Treasurer had any indication from Professor Hogan that he opposes the 9.5 per cent increase awarded to professors outside of and in addition to indexation? If not, will the Treasurer ask Professor Hogan his attitude to that matter at the first meeting of the economic advisory panel,  whose formation  the Treasurer announced on Sunday? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has he seen the  Round-up of Economic Statistics,  No. 44, of September 1976, published by the Treasury? I ask him how he explains that at the bottom of page 1 1 there is an explanation of why seasonally adjusted figures for unemployment are inappropriate, yet at the top of the same page, under the heading 'Civilian Employment', it states: 
Seasonally adjusted total civilian employment increased by 2200 in June ... In actual terms civilian employment fell by 8700 in June. 
Why is seasonal adjustment appropriate for employment but not for unemployment? 
I should like to make 2 points. As I understand it, we are discussing the whole of the Bill rather than just one clause. Is that so,  Mr Deputy  Chairman? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Committee is taking the Bill as a whole. 
I will address myself to the Bill and just in passing I would like to mention some clauses. In relation to clause 13, the only significant point I would like to make is that we do not object to the contributor who has a chronic illness being subsidised, obviously. 
-No, I think the honourable member misunderstood what he was saying. What we object to is that when the funds strike a mean, when they work out what premium to charge, they ought to take into consideration that a certain proportion of the population are likely to be chronically ill. That is one of the points to be taken into consideration, just as it is necessary to take into consideration how many hospital days there will be on average per 10 000 people or whatever it may be at different age groups. What I object to is that the funds collect the premiums from these people while they are well, but once they are admitted to hospital and they have been in hospital for 35 days the funds wipe their hands of them and the Government has to take over. It seems to me that, like any other son of insurance arrangement, when something really significant happens the insurance company having collected its premium does not pay up forwhat do you call it? 
They pay only a temporary benefit. Honourable members opposite say that it is underwriting. Underwriting would be all right. I would accept that. Underwriting would imply that the funds would pay a certain amount for somebody else to take the risk. If one were to insure the Sydney Opera House, one would not carry the whole of that insurance oneself. 
-That is exactly what would be done. But spreading the risk implies that the premium would be spread also. The funds are not spreading that premium. That is what I am talking about. 
-The taxpayer is not. The premiums stay with the funds and the Government takes the risk. That is the point to which I am objecting. The taxpayer is taking the risk. The taxpayer is paying for those people. I do not object to that but what I am objecting to is that the private health funds are collecting the premium and are not contributing towards the risk in that particular case. If the honourable member for Bendigo cannot follow that, I hope that he will come over here later and I will try to explain it for him on a piece of paper. 
I wish to address myself to clause 20 of the same Bill for a couple of minutes. Clause 20 deals with the Commonwealth subsidy for those people who will continue to pay the Medibank levy and who will want to take out intermediate hospital cover. When the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced the change- I think it was on 20 May-I think he said that it would be $ 1 35. I cannot let the opportunity pass without saying, 'I told you so'. I suggested then that it would not be possible to do that for $135. 1 worked that out without any great calculations. I did not even use a calculator. I did it in my head. It seemed an inadequate amount of money to pay for insurance, even working on the basis of what intermediate insurance cover cost prior to Medibank being introduced. Surely it was possible to work out this fact. That is why I say, 'I told you so'. I am not sure of the position in some of the States. But the position in New South Wales and at least some of the other States is that the actuarial cost will be $174 and the Australian Government will subsidise each one of those patients up to the amount of $39. So the actual cost to the family will be $ 1 35 as originally promised by the Minister. I think that arguments can be advanced in favour of and against that. But what I deplore is the fact that this decision was not made on the conscious basis of arguing that certain people ought to be subsidised if they are able to afford intermediate insurance cover. It was done because of a mistake on the part of the Minister's advisers. He announced the figure of $135 and then had to stick to it. If he had not done so, he would have had to change so many other things in that legislation. He was not prepared to make those changes. Therefore, he decided, rather than announce another embarrassing change, that the Government could pay the amount involved. I think that the estimated cost is of the order of $12m a year subsidy. Is that fairly accurate? 
It is an expensive mistake on the part of the Minister. I wish that other people were prepared to pay $12m for my mistakes. It would be very pleasant if that happened. But I suppose that Ministers are in a privileged position in this regard. 
There is a television program about a $6m man and a $6m woman. Now we have a $12m face sitting there as the Minister for Health. I do not want to push the matter too far. As I said originally, I rose really to say that I told you so. I wish to make some further forecasts on the I told you so level which may become reality next year. I believe that some of the estimates of costs for health insurance cover are also significantly under-estimated. In fact, we will find that some of the premiums which both Medibank Private and the health insurance funds will have to charge for some of their private and intermediate packages will increase very substantially and very quickly. Before people decide to take out those packages, they ought to think very carefully about how much pressure they can exert on the funds when the funds try to increase the premiums. They should think about what they can do concerning that increase and how much pressure they can exert on governments faced in one year with an election. I would suggest to such people that they can exert much more pressure on governments one year before an election than they will be able to exert on health funds which are going broke. Therefore, I suggest that people ought to stay with the government organisation. 
-The honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  surprised me not so much by making a confused speech in which he confused not only the Bills but also the relative positions of the Australian Councils of Trade Unions and the Australian Labor Party but by making the speech he did when he is a Queenslander. Queenslanders have been receiving standard ward care for nothing for 30-odd years. He now supports the proposition that Queenslanders going into standard wards in public hospitals will have to pay a significant amount of money. I am surprised that an honourable member with a majority of less than 200 is prepared to say to the people who go into the public hospitals in his area that he strongly supports the proposition that they should pay a large amount of money for their hospitalisation. Nonetheless, he knows what he is doing. 
As the honourable member points out, it may be because he is honest. It may be because he does not know what he is talking about. Let us be quite clear on the first point. The ALP does not support a levy. The ALP supports the present position. It believes that the whole cost of Medibank should be funded from tax revenue. One of the interesting points about this debate on finance is that the honourable member for Capricornia asked how Medibank would be financed. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  interjected: 'Nobody knows'. 
No, it was the honourable member for Riverina. In any case, the impressive thing is that I completely agree with the honourable member for Riverina when he says that he does not understand it. I congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  not for bringing this legislation into the House but for being able to get it through the Cabinet and the Government's Party meetings. I do not know whether he had to take it to the Country Party meeting first and then to the Liberal party meeting or whether there was a joint meeting. I do not know what the procedure is. If the honourable members opposite realised and understood exactly how the Government scheme is to be financed, I would think that with their ideological background they would have some reservations about the method of finance. Let us be quite clear. Let us assume that the Minister is correct in his prediction that some 50 per cent of people will contract out of Medibank and go into private funds. That 50 per cent of the population will receive almost no benefit from Medibank. Almost the only benefit they will receive is the $16 a day subsidy when they go into public hospitals. 
It is relevant. The relevant point is that I am replying to the question asked by the honourable member for Capricornia about how this will be financed. That 50 per cent of the population who may be expected to be the higher income earners of the population will pay, one assumes, 65 or 70 per cent of the total net revenue cost of Medibank. The net revenue cost of the new Medibank in a full year will be of the order of $ 1 ,000m. The 50 per cent will be paying between $650m and $700m in taxation for almost nothing. That is why I have some reservation about strongly opposing the propositions which were suggested by the Committee comprising  Dr Sax, Mr Holmes  and  Mr Hyden  which suggested this legislation to the Government and which the Government accepted. 
Let me now look at the specific points that appear in the 3 pieces of legislation before the House. The health insurance levy is not all that is relevant to these Bills because, as I pointed out in my original point of order, it is dealt with in orders of the day Nos 4 and 5. The Bill is concerned more with the question of Medibank Private and private health funds. One of the myths- there are many- that is generally accepted amongst many people in Australia is that a person gets better doctors if he goes into a hospital as an intermediate or private patient. That should not be true at any time. The opposite can be true. Let me explain the position. I realise there are some differences in different States. I have to concentrate on New South Wales because it is the only State on which I feel really competent to speak. If a person is admitted to a district hospital in New South Wales, for example to the Fairfield Hospital or Parramatta Hospital in my general area, as a public patient he would have to be admitted under the care of a specialist. If it is a surgical case, he is admitted under a specialist surgeon. If it is a medical case, he is admitted under a specialist physician. If it is more highly specialised than that, he is admitted under one of the even more specialised people such as specialist neurosurgeons, specialist neurologists or specialist ear, nose and throat men. The only person who can be in charge of treatment of him is a qualified specialist medical person who has been accepted and appointed by the hospital to the position of honorary medical officer. A person admitted as an intermediate or private patient to the same hospital may be admitted under his general practitioner. I used to be in that area and I could have admitted- I did not- persons for almost anything under my care as private or intermediate patients. 
-I do not think I was a crook doctor because I did not admit people under my care unless I was competent. Surely it is important that when the honourable members are advising people in their own electorates, where people may take some notice of them, what they should do is to tell them that if they are admitted to private hospitals by their general practitioner he can deal with them. I do not know the hospitals in the honourable member's electorate. Perhaps there are hospitals at Leeton or Griffith. 
If people are admitted as private patients to the Narrandera Hospital by their general practitioner they can be treated by him though he may have no special qualifications to treat them. 
-But they may have no specialist qualifications to treat intermediate or private patients for some involved condition. People admitted to public wards have to be treated by a person who has been appointed, who is vetted and who hopefully has the appropriate qualifications to deal with them. My advice to people who have to enter hospitals for reasonably serious conditions is that they have nothing to lose by going in as standard ward patients or public patients. The honourable member for Riverina, who is prepared to support almost anything coming from the Government, was himself for quite some years, as I understand it, in the Army. He was treated by Army doctors. He is possibly eligible now for treatment by Repatriation doctors. I am sure he would get more specialised treatment if he was admitted into a repatriation hospital under the appropriate specialist than if he went into Narrandera hospital and was treated by his general practitioner. 
I am not really terribly interested in his comments. Could I suggest to people here who are worried about being admitted to hospital and not having a choice of doctor that the sort of condition they would probably be worried about is a coronary occlusion, a cerebrovascular catastrophe, a stroke. 
In your case, gout. But if we are talking about the more serious conditions for which a patient could be admitted to hospital, he would probably want to be admitted to the intensive care ward of the hospital. He would be admitted as a public patient. He would want to be treated by the people who are in charge of that intensive care ward all the time. He would not particularly want to be admitted by his pleasant general practitioner, who comes around and pats the kiddies and does all the right things for minor conditions. 
-That is the point. The people who look after patients in the intensive care wards are salaried doctors. They are full time people because they have got to be highly specialised. I think that anybody would be silly to be admitted as a private patient into a private hospital if he had a really serious condition. I will deal now with some of the smaller items. The honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson),  who is prominent in this debate by being absent - 
I think he is the only medical practitioner on the Government side of the House in this chamber. Last week, in prominently featured articles in the  Australian,  he criticised the Government's changes to Medibank, but he has not turned up for this debate. 
-Good. The honourable member made the important point in his articles that there should not be any complete recovery of medical fees under any kind of health insurance because then there would be over usage. I do not completely accept that as being a major point, but I can see some point to it. If people have to pay nothing and no patient moiety is involved, it may well be argued that they will go unnecessarily to the doctor. Where one draws the line is debatable, but the point which the honourable member made is worth while. The hypocrisy of the argument advanced by the Australian Medical Association is that it distributed posters which it urged doctors to put up in their surgeries asking people to take out multicover or a similar sort of insurance cover from the health funds. 
The medical cover provided by those funds is what is called gap insurance, which covers the payment gap which the honourable member for Tangney thought was important in any kind of health insurance so that people would feel they still had to contribute something and therefore would not go to the doctor unnecessarily. It is a complete contradiction to say that the gap is important and then to urge people to cover themselves for that gap. In fact people are encouraged to go to the doctor because that is the only way they are going to recover their insurance payments. 
The funds in New South Wales charge $1.86 for multicover, and I am sorry to say that under the new scheme they will continue to do so. The only medical benefit that is available to contributors is a maximum gap payment of $5 for an operation. For an ordinary consultation the benefit is $1.10. A member of the family has to have an operation once every three weeks for the contributor to pass out square. How many people in Australia would insure themselves if the maximum refund were $5. But that is all a contributor is covered for, and for that he pays $1.86 a week, which is supposed to be very impressive. When the Minister first mentioned the changes to Medibank I think he said something about gap insurance being abolished. I am sorry he has changed his mind about that because gap insurance is a big rip-off by the health funds. The reason why people continue to subscribe to it is inertia. The amount of $1.86 was chosen carefully by the funds because that used to be the amount of the old medical insurance. 
But people paid $1.86 for medical cover before 1 July 1975 when Medibank was introduced because that was the only way they could get the original 85 per cent refund. What the funds then did was still to charge $1.86 but refund only 15 per cent, or a maximum of $5. People continue to subscribe through inertia, and also because commissions are paid to paymasters, chemists- for the benefit of the honourable member who has been interjectingand employers, encouraging them to keep on collecting the $1.86 and discouraging them from pointing out to contributors that it is a pointless kind of contribution. In passing, I make 2 final points. Even though I oppose the basic proposition that there ought to be a levy - 
-I oppose the imposition of a levy, but I do not think it is correct to say that it is being done in the interests of the AMA. I do not think it is being done in the interests of the funds. At the present time some 70 per cent of the population is covered, for the wrong reasons, for intermediate treatment. I think that figure has been bandied about and has been generally accepted. I do not know whether it is correct, but I will assume that to be so. After all these changes are introduced, and I think we all agree that it is in the interests of the medical profession for people to be covered for intermediate ward care, the Minister expects that some 50 per cent of people will be covered for intermediate ward care compared with the original 70 per cent. There will be a significant drop in the number of people covered for intermediate ward treatment. That is not surprising when one considers that at the present time the cost of intermediate cover is less than $2 a week. From now on the cost will be the basic 2.5 per cent, or up to $5.60 a week, and on top of that an amount of $2.60 a week, or $135 a year, must be paid for intermediate cover. People will therefore think more carefully before taking out intermediate cover. I support that particular aspect of the Bill because I think it will discourage people from taking intermediate cover and will force politicians to improve public wards even more than they have done in the past. For that reason it is a step in the right direction. 
-No, I do not think the honourable member quite follows my point. 
-I think it is important that people who opt for private or intermediate hospitalisation should pay the full cost of that hospitalisation. That is an important point, and therefore the provision now being introduced is a step in the right direction. They will still not pay the full cost of the bed day, but they will pay something approaching it. There is still a $16 a day subsidy for the beds, but at least it is not a $30 or $40 subsidy, as was the case in the past. I think that people will find that the cost of private and intermediate insurance will increase very rapidly and that the charges presently proposed by the funds- and by Medibank Private for that matter -may not in fact be sufficient to cover the actual costs. If that turns out to be the case, I hope that the funds will continue to use their reserves and not increase their charges. But no doubt they will do that once they have got people in and hope they have them again ensnared in that moment of inertia. 
-I think it is an insult to this House and to the people of Australia that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  was chosen to speak and to try to explain the measure that this Government is introducing. He knows nothing about it. If that is the best explanation that the Government can put up for the introduction of a Medibank levy, it is extremely poor. The honourable member for La Trobe is a gentleman whom many would refer to as a smart little bugger. 
I would refer to him as a smart young man who all his life has lived on his father's American Express and Diners' Club cards. All his life he has lived off his father's income. He has never done a bit of work and does not understand anything about it. 
I called him that, but I withdraw it if that is appropriate. I withdraw the reference to his being a smart little bugger. 
I did and I shall do so again. I refer to him as a smart young man who all his life has lived on his father's American Express and Diners' Club cards. He has never done anything else. 
I shall continue with my remarks on the legislation,  Mr Acting Speaker. 
The Acting  Speaker  indicated that there was no need for withdrawal; therefore I would consider it hypocritical to withdraw the remark. The honourable member for La Trobe has no idea about the legislation that has been introduced. He refers to a Medibank levy. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe referred to a levy which will raise $800m. If the honourable member looks at the Budget Papers he will see that the levy will raise $2 50m. 
No Member may use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member thereof . . . 
I point out that it has been a practice in the House that when a member regards words used by another member to be offensive the member who has offended normally withdraws. I think the words uttered by the honourable member for Prospect were deliberately provocative and deliberately offensive and he should in the circumstances be asked to withdraw. 
-I am convinced by the point of order and I withdraw. The honourable member for La Trobe referred, as I said a minute ago, to $800m being raised by the Medibank levy. I can see the Right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  sitting in the chamber. He is terribly good on figures. The last time I heard him interviewed on behalf of the Liberal Party was on station 2UE in Sydney. He referred to the fact that the reason the United States could do certain things we could not do was because after all it had a population of 130 million. 
-The Budget Papers this year show that $208m will be collected under the levy from individual income taxpayers who are referred to as the pay-as-you-earn people and $42m from those who are not paying payasyouearn tax. 
-That is a total of $250m. The rest of the saving is from people who leave Medibank. I am sorry, but if the honourable member cannot follow it he should have another look at the Budget Papers. The actual levy will raise that amount. Let us look at the proposition the Labor Party is putting up. Our amendment is that the Labor Party is of the opinion that Medibank should continue to be funded out of general revenue. Government supporters have made great play of an allegation that this Government has reduced taxation. What in fact has happened in the .current Budget? Payasyouearn taxpayers-that is, all those people who are employees, wage earners, salary earnershave to pay another $ 1,770m in tax this year, an increase of 24.7 per cent compared with an increase last year of $ 1,000m. Everybody screamed when the Hayden Budget was brought down because there was an increase of tax of $ 1,000m but this year the increase is $ 1,770m. That relates only to pay-as-you-earn taxation. It has been increased by 24.7 per cent. That includes $208m estimated to be collected for Medibank for 9 months of the current financial year. 
In addition to the $ 1770m which people will lose in extra taxation there will, of course, be the amount that people who leave Medibank and contract out of paying the levy will have to pay. They will have to pay for something they now get for nothing. The people paid $7,000m in income tax last year. This year they will have to pay $8, 775m. I invite honourable members to look at the Budget papers. These people will pay $ 1, 775m more. Let us be quite clear about this. In addition to that, the people who decide to subscribe to private insurance of one kind or another, for either intermediate or private cover, have to pay significantly more- twice as much as they used to pay. This amount will probably increase. I am not opposed to that concept. I think that people who want to be covered for intermediate or private ward treatment ought to pay for it. I completely support that Government proposition. My only objection to the legislation before the House at present is the basic one concerning the levy. I suggest that people follow the advertisements for Medibank which this Government has put out. The advertisement which I have here appeared in the  Age  on 30 August 1976. It is headed: 
Do nothing and Medibank still works for you. Here's how: 
After 1 October, if you choose to do nothing you'll automatically be covered by Medibank. That's the most economical health insurance available in Australia today. 
-That is perfectly all right. The important point is to cancel one's other health insurance, as the Medibank advertisement to which I have referred indicates. I will refer very quickly to 2 complications. One is the proposition that people who at present cover themselves with any of the private funds will be considered to be covered unless they actually take steps to cancel that insurance. This will mean that lots of people will continue paying for it when they do not really intend to do so. If, at present, a person is paying in the order of $ 1.80 a week to be covered for intermediate benefits I think it is wrong that the insurance company will automatically assume that he still wants to take the cover even though it will cost approximately twice as much. I therefore urge people to look carefully at what will happen. 
Finally, I refer to the point that was raised in the House today during question time. I have forgotten who asked the question but the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that he was looking into it or that the Department of Social Services was looking into it. It concerns the question of working wives. The difficulty is that people will have to pay the maximum levy of $300 a year for a family unit if their taxable income reaches $12,000. In a way it seems easy to say that if the husband is paying the Medibank levy the wife should not be paying it. That is so if our wives are working because we are earning more than $12,000 a year. In other cases we do not know how much the wife should be paying towards the health insurance levy. But the net result, unless the Taxation Office has come up with some brilliant suggestion, will be either that people will owe money at the end of the year in order to come up to the $300 which is proposed as the levy or they will have overpaid significantly as a family unit before the end of the year and will have vastly exceeded the $300 levy. If the husband has a taxable income of $9,000 a year and the wife has a taxable income of $7,000 a year, they will have paid much more than their $300 if they are both paying the proposed 2.5 per cent levy. 
I reiterate the important point so far as this issue is concerned. As the Government has the numbers in both Houses, obviously it will be forcing through this legislation. It will be amending the position as it is at present. One would have thought from the speech of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  that there was a levy existing at the present time and that we are trying to abolish it. Of course, the opposite is the case. There is no levy at present and the Government is introducing a levy which will cost nearly everybody in this country a large amount of money as from 1 October 1976. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Has the Minister for Repatriation stated that the changes to the provision of pharmaceutical services for repatriation patients will not disadvantage those patients? If that is so, how does the Minister explain that with an increase in the cost of drugs of 10 per cent to 15 per cent, as shown on page 24 of the Department's statement of receipts and expenditure, there will be a decrease of $3. 3m- about 1 1 per cent- in estimated expenditure on pharmaceutical services prescribed by local medical officers, as shown on page 34 of the same statement? 
-I will not detain the chamber for very long tonight. I want to deal basically with one particular point, but in passing I would like to support the remarks made by my colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  when speaking about library facilities for members of Parliament, particularly back bench members of Parliament. I have no complaints personally about the Parliamentary Library. I receive excellent service there. I served on the Library Committee during the last Parliament, which, as honourable members opposite will recall, was when the Australian Labor Party was in office. I would like to point out that I have adopted a consistent approach on the matter. Even though the Ministers then were from my side of the chamber I repeatedly reiterated that preference as far as library services are concerned should be given to back bench members of Parliament and not to Ministers and office holders. Ministers and office holders do in fact have extra facilities that they can take advantage of. For example, Ministers can use the facilities of their departments and they have a large staff. I think that it is important to bring about some equilibrium between the Executive and the rest of the Parliament and that those facilities that are available are the best that can possibly be made available for back bench members of Parliament. Honourable members opposite often talk about the need for equilibrium between the Executive and others. I think that they should try to exert what influence they can in this respect. 
I wish to deal basically with the Department of Administrative Services. One of the functions it performs, as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has just pointed out, is the administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Office. I would like to congratulate the federal conference, council or whatever it is called of the Liberal Party of Australia for having appointed a committee which apparently has recommended that a 20 per cent variation between electorates should not be introduced. That is the sort of proposition that the National Country Party of Australia is continually pushing. Let us hope that the members of the Liberal Party will show some guts in the Party room when the time comes for them to make a decision on this matter and will stand up to the blackmailing tactics of their coalition partners. 
Upon reading the explanatory notes on the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services I found that the Liberal Party has in fact carried out another election promise which was not mentioned in the document that was produced by it and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the other day. Honourable members may recall the Liberal Party's slogan about turning on the lights that swept Australia towards the end of last year. If one looks at page 67 of the explanatory notes one will in fact find that the cost of electricity for government offices this year is expected to increase by over $500,000. That, of course, is as much turning on of lights as will be taking place. That provision for the expenditure of an additional $5 17,000 on electricity is what the Liberal Party has done in fulfilment of one of its election promises. 
-That is right. In the amount of speaking time remaining to me or whatever I want to take of it I want to address myself to a point that does not affect me personally. I hope that honourable members opposite will take some notice of it, even though it affects mainly honourable members formerly from this side of the chamber- former members of Parliament. I refer to severance travel. It does not affect me personally because, firstly, I am still a member of this chamber; secondly, I suppose I am likely to be a member of this chamber for some time; and, thirdly, even if I were defeated or resigned from this House I am one of those who hate flying and I would not take advantage of the travel facilities that would be available to me after I left this chamber, as I do not take advantage of them now. I do not have the actual report of the Remuneration Tribunal concerning severance travel in front of me, but honourable members may recall that basically it says that people who have served a certain number of years or a certain number of Parliaments should be entitled to what is called severance travel. It does not matter what period of time is involved. Let us assume it made the correct suggestion that after so many years they should be entitled to one year of free air travel so they can re-establsih themselves in their previous occupations. That is probably a reasonable proposition for people who leave this Parliament. A large number of Labor people left this Parliament at the end of last year, as honourable members are aware. I suppose that after future elections the same might apply to other members of this chamber on the Government side. 
The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  has ruled, probably correctly in the sense of the legal position, that the Remuneration Tribunal report cannot apply to anybody except present members of Parliament. In other words, it does not apply to people who were defeated in the last election. This to me becomes a  Catch 22  situation because there will always be a new Remuneration Tribunal report setting out what facilities and what benefits members should get. That report will come out after people have left Parliament because they have retired or been defeated. Therefore these people will never be able to take advantage of that report. I would like the Minister to look sympathetically at this position and to review it because it strikes me as being extremely unfair. For example, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  who allegedly will not be here for ever, is entitled at present to certain benefits under the latest Remuneration Tribunal report when he leaves this Parliament. On the 30 June after he has left the Parliament a new Remuneration Tribunal report will come out and it will be said by the Minister that it does not apply to the former member for Phillip. Therefore he will not be entitled to anything that it provides. It just strikes me as being ridiculous. 
I conclude on another point arising out of the Remuneration Tribunal's report. The Tribunal has granted members certain benefits and taken away other benefits. One of the benefits it has taken away is free telephone calls from members' own homes. Only 85 per cent of them will now be free of charge. I suppose it could be argued that that is reasonable. But I note on page 255 the explanatory notes for the Senate Estimates Committee dealing with the Department of Administrative Services, in commenting on division 1 40.2.0 1 , state in paragraph ( f ): 
Other expenditure includes a provision Tor the cost of Federal Members Authority Cards . . . and although telephone costs have increased it is anticipated that there will be a small reduction in the use of these cards during 1 976-77. 
Let me assure the Minister that this obviously will not happen. I am sure that other members are doing what I am doing. Since I now have to pay 15 per cent of the cost of trunk line calls I have started to use my FMA card again when I ring from home. When I have to make interstate parliamentary calls I am not prepared to pay towards the cost of them. Therefore the number of FMA calls will increase quite significantly in the current year. It must increase. Therefore the estimate that the amount for FMA cards will decrease, to my mind, does not take the true position into account. 
-On 15 September, during the adjournment debate, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  spent his 5 minutes attacking the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales. He referred to letters he had received from the Kindergarten Union and from supporting pre-school centres. He made the point that he was opposed to generalised help for people but he was very keen on selective help. As he put it: 
I asked the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales whether it thought it was reasonable that the subsidy should remain as it was- in other words, with 70 per cent of the subsidy going to people who were evidently not in need. I also asked the Union whether it would favour a situation in which the needy benefited from welfare payments and whether welfare should be redirected to the needy. 
The honourable member said that he had asked those questions about a month before but that he had not received a reply. I should like to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter that I received from the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales which is dated 3 August 1976. It is from one of the kindergartens which serves my area, although it is situated in the electorate of Mitchell. However, the people concerned knew that I would be more sympathetic to them.  Mr Speaker,  I ask for leave to incorporate the letter in the  Hansard  record. 

 The letter read as follows- 


 Dr R. E. Klugman, M.P., 93 O'Neill Street, Guildford, N.S.W. 2 161 
Dear  Dr Klugman, 
In a Press Release in the Sydney Morning Herald on 26 July 1976, it stated that the Federal Government will cut funds for Pre-Schools and it is likely the money will go to increase aid for more needy children.  Mrs Marie  Coleman, Director for the Federal Office of Child Care, said that underprivileged children were receiving little help and she felt they were the group most in need of Government assistance, but we feel that we are well and truly rilling an essential community need with our Centre and Centres such as ours. 
The word 'needy' can be interpreted in so many different ways, and we feel most definitely our Centre caters for some of these children- such as children with a minor handicap, speech problems, emotional problems etc. and if these children do not get this help from Centres such as ours, providing Sessional care, there is nowhere else for these children to go, as there are no other organisations to cater for such specific problems, thus meaning our children are deprived of Pre-School education and care. 
According to the Government, bulk of Sessional PreSchools are in middle and upper-class areas, but in fact this is not so, as done on a 'needs' basis in areas rated l-S, the figure of the Kindergarten Union clearly states as below: 
As you can see from these figures, this certainly does not substantiate the Government's claim and we feel Sessional Pre-Schools play an extremely vital role in the community and there is a definite need for such Pre-Schools, but without continued Government funding it will become financially impossible to run these Centres. 
We have 120 children enrolled at our Centre at present and we have 200 names on our Waiting List and these people want Sessional Pre-School, not full day care for their children, but they and many thousands more children in the future will be deprived of this, if the Government funding is to cease or decrease, as it will put the fees well and truly out of the reach of the people in our community, as the estimated parent contribution without the Government Grants would be approximately $3-$3.50 per hour, and as you can see, this is a completely unrealistic figure that could not be met by families, and here the Government will be affecting the group they most want to help- the needy children. 
Our present rate of contribution, with the 75 per cent subsidy is 40c per hour and salaries form about 80 per cent of Branch expenditure only. The State subsidy varies from 17.18 per cent to 12.48 per cent of the salary of a trained Teacher, depending on her seniority and 16.45 per cent of the salary of the untrained Helper. 
The Kindergarten Union has 78 affiliated Centres and cares for 6082 children which include- 
288 single-parent families 
b ) 49 children considered at risk 
325 non-English speaking migrants 
212 children causing concern- i.e. Speech problems, behaviour problems, minor handicaps etc 
82 medically referred- moderate to severe handicapped children i.e. Spina Bifida, Down's Syndrome, Aphasia, emotionally disturbed children etc 
527 mothers working full time 
793 mothers working part time 
We therefore urge you to please speak on our behalf as voters, and press for the retention of present subsidy levels and for the subsidy basis to be stabilised on a three-year term, thus enabling realistic budgeting and planning to be made. We are asking you to please consider this very carefully for the children now attending these Centres and for the many thousands who may be deprived of such a valuable community service in the future. 
Yours faithfully, 
I would be more impressed by the honourable member for Macarthur 's attack on the parents in his electorate who are trying to send their children to the kindergartens if he were more consistent. I can see some argument in favour of selectivity against generalised help for people. But the honourable member for Macarthur does not show the same selectivity when he supports superphosphate bounties. He does not show the same selectivity when he supports the abolition of the coal export bounty. The superphosphate bounty will cost the Federal Government $60m this year. There are at least a significant number of people receiving that bounty who do not need it. 
The important point there is not one of investment. It is a question of whether there should be help on a selective basis. Turning to the coal export levy, $ 120m will be collected in a full year from coal exports. There may well be some firms or coal mines which will have difficulty in paying that levy. But what do we see? We see the Federal Government taking the first steps towards abolishing and actually promising the abolition of that coal levy. The Utah mining corporation, for example, will benefit to the extent of $7m to $10m  this year through the  abolition of that levy. 
I know that the honourable member for La Trobe shares the views of the honourable member for Macarthur that all the subsidies should go to the people who receive the superphosphate bounty and to all the people who will pay the reduced coal export levy. There must be a large number of people in the electorate of La Trobe who will benefit by the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and from the reduction of the coal export levy. I am interested to hear that the honourable member for La Trobe is not interested in pre-school centres and that he shares the view of the honourable member for Macarthur. I hope that the electors of Macarthur and La Trobe read the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur. I hope they read the attacks he made upon them and see where the selectivity comes in. This Government is not prepared to help people to send their children to pre-schools but it is prepared to help overseas coal companies and the Prime Minister (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) who receives a subsidy of some $5,000 from the superphosphate bounty. 
I should like to address myself to the estimates for both the Department of Social Security and the Department of Health. It is very difficult in 10 minutes to deal with such large departments, but I will start with the Department of Health and deal specifically with community health. Articles appeared recently in the Sydney  Sun  and the  Sun-Herald  stating that half the population of the outer western suburbs- St Marys- is chronically ill and implying that that was terribly unusual. The article in the Sydney  Sun  referred to 'the ills of St Marys- Sydney 's sickest suburb '. The reason that St Marys has been called Sydney's sickest suburb is that it is the only suburb where chronic illness has been investigated. A health survey was conducted in St Marys in June 1975 by the New South Wales Health Commission. One of the questions in the survey on which the articles were based asked: 'Do you have any illness or health problem which you have had for more than 6 months?' There were 906 adults and children involved in the survey and only the 522 adults were asked that question. Of the 522 adults, 263 or 50.4 per cent stated that they had suffered from a chronic condition during the previous 6 months. That was treated by the Sydney newspapers as being quite exceptional. If it is remembered that over 50 per cent of people applying to join the Army who believe that they are healthy are in fact rejected as unfit by medical officers the matter can be seen in a different perspective. 
I think one of the other important points made by the survey is that many of the people were not unable to work but had a disability. The whole aim of the survey was to find out how people saw themselves and whether medical services were adequate. I will give some examples. There were 49 people who claimed that they had bad backs, 43 people had nervousness, 34 had heart trouble, 34 had high blood pressure. It is interesting to note that only 3 people had varicose veins and 3 people had gout- about one-half per cent. That is a remarkably small number of people. I suppose the important point is that St Marys is not significantly different, as far as we know, from other suburbs. The only other place in New South Wales where a similar survey has been carried out is Gosford, where about 3 per cent more people saw themselves as being chronically ill. That can probably be explained by the higher average age of the people in the Gosford area. 
Nonetheless, it is important that there are many people in the community who see themselves as being chronically ill, who see themselves as not being as active as they would like to be, and in a smaller proportion of cases being unable to work. Obviously they need all kinds of health services, and those health services are at least partially being provided by the community health services which Labor introduced over the last two or three years while it was in Government. I am proud that the people of my electorate have a pilot scheme which involves many community nurses. Each primary public school in the electorate of Prospect and in some of the surrounding electorates has one or two community nurses attached to it to try to prevent people from going into hospital. 
One of the difficulties about which we must all be concerned is the high cost of health care, and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has emphasised that in relation to Medibank. There is a continuing increase in the cost of health care. The average cost of a hospital bed in a public hospital in New South Wales now is over $70 a day, which amounts to something of the order of $500 a week. If each nurse keeps only half a patient out of hospital then we are in front on a strict cost benefit analysis. I know that the problem is not as simple as that. There are all kinds of other complications, and I hope that much work will be done to see just how beneficial community health services are, both from the point of view of benefits to the population, which I suppose is the most important point, and from the point of view of economics. One aspect which concerns me is that many of the young women who have gone into community nursing, certainly many I have met in my area, are exceptionally bright girls with much more go in them, I think, than many others in the nursing profession. Perhaps some of the best nurses are leaving the hospitals and going into community nursing. That might have some disadvantages which we will not become aware of for some time. I am sorry that I do not have more time to deal with these matters, but I wanted to refute the newspaper articles which implied that St Marys was in some way worse off than any other area. 
Dealing now with the Department of Social Security, page 88 of the explanatory notes indicate that the pension will go up to $43.50 a week and, being geared to the consumer price index, the Department predicts that from autumn of 1977 the amount will go up to $46.50. The interesting point is that the Government has been talking a lot about curbing inflation, but we note that an increase of $3 a week has been proposed for all pensions from autumn 1977. That compares with the 6-monthly increase of $2.25 at the present time. In other words, the Government expects a 33 per cent increase in inflation. I am not suggesting that inflation will rise to 33 per cent, but the rate of inflation is estimated to increase by 33 per cent during the next 6 months. That is a depressing thought. I am not surprised at that estimate because in the December CPI we will get a large increase associated with Medibank. While pensioners will be better off in some ways because they will get the extra money, I hope that those honourable members opposite who are intelligent enough to be able to follow the figures can see that the figures on page 88 of the explanatory notes imply a very significant increase in inflation. There has been no increase in pensions for children, in guardian's allowances or in supplementary assistance. Those payments are not geared to the CPI increase, and I think that is a bit depressing. 
Regarding unemployment, one of the interesting points is that there is an estimated drop in expenditure on unemployment benefits, even though unemployment benefits will go up by exactly the same amount as the other pensions. That is appropriate, of course, but it is interesting to see that a decrease of $55m in unemployment benefits payments has been estimated. If one checks with the Department one finds that this is an estimate from the Treasury and not from the Department. I suppose that the Department has no specific way of finding out how many unemployed people there will be. I hope the Government is correct in its estimates. I do not believe that there will be such a huge decrease because that implies a decrease in unemployment of about 1 5 per cent in the coming year. 
Let me deal with one other percentage which I have found interesting, and I would be grateful if the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is able to give any figures. On page 93 of the explanatory notes under the heading 'Supporting Mothers Benefits', which deals to a large extent with single mothers, the additional cost from the increase in the number of beneficiaries due to an estimated increase in the numbers during the current year is 26 per cent. I do not know whether the Government expects to have 26 per cent more single mothers this year. If it does expect that rate of increase, I do not know how it is calculated. 
No, this is an increase in numbers, not an increase in amount. An increase of 26 per cent has been predicted in the number of single mothers. The only explanation I can think of is that some women will be transferred from unemployment benefits to supporting mothers benefits and thus hide the unemployment figures. But when the Minister replies, I will be interested to know how the Department calculates that the number of single mothers for the year 1976-77 will increase by 26 per cent. It would be an interesting exercise in statistics from the Department of Social Security. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Minister seen a statement by the immediate past  President  of the Australian Institute of Credit Management,  Mr Carey,  that company failures in Australia are five or six times greater than in the United States and that a high proportion of such failures are deliberate; that the cost of company failures in Australia last financial year exceeded $600m and that much of that could be traced to white collar crime?  Mr Carey  further stated that in the United States when a company fails it is possible for the liquidator, when paying off creditors, to include the personal assets of a person who had set up the company. Will the Minister consider the statement made by  Mr Carey,  who obviously is an expert on the topic, when suggesting or drafting further company legislation? 
I should Uke to address myself to some of the more basic questions on immigration in this country from a long-term point of view. I Will quote very extensively from my submission to the national population inquiry held about three or four years ago. 
I was surprised today when I re-read my submission to find how firmly I still believe all of the things I said then. 
Whilst most thinking people must obviously support zero population growth or even minus population growth for the globe's population, this does not necessarily mean the same for Australia. Many of the ZPG arguments in Australia rest much more on value judgments about what makes for a tolerable life style than on what I would call pseudo-scientific predictions. To my mind growth- economic and population- tends to threaten traditional middle class values. It is felt to be disruptive and unpleasant precisely because it turns minority privileges into majority ones, because it means crowded roads, crowded beaches and fishing spots. It has overtones of a strong historical anxiety about being overwhelmed by Asia's population. The local ZPG movement collects the Asian-horde worriers. Recruitment in the schools is spreading, with ecological politics receiving an uncritical embrace- not given to any other political movement- probably because of the combination of scientific jargon and doomsday religion. There is the theme of apocalyptic catastrophe- the threat of doom to come and the theme of millenial hope with the promise of human perfectability, zero population growth plus a repudiation of worldly goods. We have the combination of complete pessimism that scientific technology could not be the saviour, with a completely unjustified optimistic faith in social technology. There is the assumption that mankind would carry out the social revolution demanded, that underdeveloped nations would not aim to reach our levels and that those in our society who already consider themselves close to subsistence level would join with the affluent in reducing their consumption. 
Basically they- the ZPG and zero economic growth advocates- make one of two alternative sets of assumptions: Firstly that, broadly speaking, the global distribution of income will remain in the future as it is now or secondly, that there will be a voluntary massive redistribution of income from the rich nations to the poor. Both seem very unrealistic. The advocates of global equilibrium throw up their hands in horror at the assumption that what they consider such minor political problems as the distribution of income among countries or within individual societies cannot be overcome under the threat of catastrophe. Suddenly it appears that although the technologists and scientists cannot solve the problems of increasing food yields, by, according to them, recycling raw materials or stopping pollution, politicians can square the circle by reconciling everyone to the social and economic consequences of global equilibrium. This, of course, is a nonsense assumption. 
I am combining my criticism of ZPG with an attack on the exponents of 'no more economic growth', as the ecological doomsday approach of, say, 'the limits to growth' by the Club of Rome is often their main argument. Recently they attacked the optimistic futurology of Herman Kahn and the Hudson Institute as sponsored by General Motors, ignoring that the Club of Rome is sponsored by Fiat and by Volkswagen. Just as growth was once seen as the magic formula, so now non-growth replaces it; one over-simplification takes over from another in a depressing dialectic of slogans. The emphasis on repudiating worldly goods is, of course, drawing on a very deep well of Western tradition. And the final irony is perhaps that what is basically a religious impulse now feels obliged to reinforce itself with scientific predictions from a computer, the 20th century version of the apocalyptic vision. But in the past the choice was seen as a personal one. It was the individual who chose to join a mendicant order of friars or give part of his income to the poor. Now, however, the choice is presented as a communal one. It is society as a whole which is expected to take a pledge of voluntary poverty, or more accurately, to abstain from enriching itself still further. And the sanction is not the traditional one of retribution in the next life but ecological catastrophe in this one; present affluence and future squalor, the contemporary version of visiting the sins of the fathers on the sons. 
In dealing with the Australian position I would then argue that there is no absolute optimum figure for future population. It is a question of whether, for idealistic of materialistic reasons, we should allow to come here people who are convinced that for material or political reasons they would be much better off. Most would agree that refugees should be accepted. The admission of others should, to my mind, only be limited by: Firstly, the active desire of people to come here, with no positive propaganda on our part; secondly, our ability to provide them with jobs, accommodation and services. I have a gut feeling that we are not entitled to deny a migrant entry if he feels that it is in his interest, unless we have a precise reason for doing so. On the question of the origin of migrants, I submit that many of those who claim that non-Europeans should be admitted are just as racially prejudiced as those they criticise. Their argument often goes: Why should we not admit an Asian English-speaking professional when we admit illiterate peasants from the Mediterranean area? Whay do they not compare him with the Dutch peasant or the Irish farmer? They are being just as racist as the people they criticise. 
My view on the main term of reference which was then before the National Population Inquiry, the Borrie Inquiry- the best possible size for Australia's population- is that there is no simple answer. Over-simplifications would only produce an answer unfit as a guide to action. I would also like to criticise some of the opponents of immigration. They are basically the same people who opposed immigration ever since it became fashionable to do so. I suppose that is ever since the time immigration started. Opponents used to argue that in periods of full employment the cost of basic services required for migrants, the so-called build-up of the social infrastructure, was so great as to use up our very limited resources. We were told that Australia could not expand at the rate it ought to be able to expand because we were bringing in too many migrants; that the infrastructure cost was too great. The same people, who are still opponents in most cases, now argue the opposite- namely that immigration will cause unemployment. I do not know the correct answer but they cannot both be true.  Mr Wilson,  who is I believe from the Sydney University's Department of Economics, was appointed in 1971 or 1972 to prepare an economic cost benefit analysis on this subject. It is a pity that cost benefit analysis has not been published. It is obvious that it is a very difficult cost benefit analysis. But I wish we would at least get a paper on it so that we could argue the pros and cons involved. 
Let me summarise my own position as far as migrants are concerned. I am one who is a migrant. We should not chase migrants. That is where I disagree with the Minister when he goes overseas. We should be more reasonable and lenient in admitting those who want to come to this country. People often treat this as a joke but it has often been my argument that it is ridiculous for us to sponsor films showing happy Australians lying on the beaches and sunbaking, yachting and doing all sorts of things and spreading that image overseas, giving people a false impression of what the average person should expect when coming to Australia. I do not know whether this is still done by the present Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, but the old Department of Immigration did this. Why not show people the unpleasant things about life in Australia? If they are still prepared to come after seeing the unpleasant things they would probably make better migrants. Certainly they would not be disappointed and there would be a saving of the cost involved in their going home. 
Finally- this is not a terribly big issue at the present time but it was when the previous Government was in power and conditions were booming- it struck me always as ridiculous that migrants must at least pretend that they intended to stay for ever. How can one be sure? You could not come into Australia and you still cannot on what is called a permanent visa, giving you a work permit and so on, unless you pretend that you are going to stay here for ever. I do not believe that people can make that sort of prediction. People come here to have a look, to see how it is going to turn out and to see if they are going to get a reasonable sort of job. I think all we are encouraging is people to tell untruths when they have to sign up to say that they are going to stay here for ever. 
It is particularly objectionable to me when we take the opposite point of view as far as students are concerned. Students have to give an undertaking that they are going to return to their own  country. They have to give exactly the opposite undertaking to the undertaking that we expect from ordinary workers. It seems to me quite hypocritical that that sort of thing happens. There is obviously not the opportunity at the present time to allow people to come here as guest workers, as they have been termed in Europe. I think the proposition that people have to commit themselves, sell up everything, bring the whole family out to this country and sign an undertaking that they are going to stay here forever is ridiculous if we want to attract the people who are intelligent enough to have alternative choices. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I present the report of the Committee on dual nationality. I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I seek leave to speak on the same subject. 
-I will not go through all the formalities but will join with other members of the committee and agree with the comments they have made. However, I would like to draw the attention of the House to one of the depressing aspects of the committee's report and that is the lack of information and detail from New South Wales in comparison with the information and detail received from all other States. This is especially important since the committee was set up, as you will recall,  Mr Speaker,  as a bipartisan committee following a motion moved by you when Leader of the Opposition in this House. Nonetheless, the then Minister for Education in New South Wales, later to become the Premier,  Sir Eric  Willis, insisted that his department should not co-operate with this committee. It was a pitiful example of the bloody-mindedness of a Liberal Premier when dealing with a committee of this House in which the Australian Labor Party had a majority. I am hopeful that this will not happen in the future. 
I think it might be appropriate at this time to read the words of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to the motion for the second reading. The amendment states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: while not opposing the Bill, the House deplores the inequities which arise from the Government's failure to- 
carry out its election promise to legislate for immediate and automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the Consumer Price index; 
index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living; 
increase the supplementary benefit; 
provide for the automatic adjustment of unemployment and sickness benefits for those under 1 8 years of age, and 
protect the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in this legislation'. 
I should like to go through those points in some detail, starting with the proposition that we put that the Government is saving money at the expense of pensioners in the matter of immediate and automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the consumer price index. According to the second reading speech by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  this is what the Government proposes to do: 
In May of each year the standard and married rates of pensions and benefits will be increased by the percentage increase in the consumer price index for the immediately preceding September and December quarters. 
Whilst the Minister is correct when he refers to those quarters as the immediately preceding September and December quarters, they are not the immediately preceding quarters. The December and March quarters are the immediately preceding quarters. The Minister went on: 
In November the rates will be increased by the movement in the consumer price index for the preceding March and June quarters. 
Again, what should happen is that the rates should be indexed on the basis of the June and September quarters. The September figures are available by the middle of October and there is no reason why the rates cannot be increased by the full amount in November. When trade unions go before a tribunal seeking wage indexation a decision is made on the last quarter. It is not made on the quarter finishing S months before, as it is the Government's intention to do with pensions. It is interesting to note that in the Government's own Budget papers there is a forecast of a $3 increase in the single rate pension beginning in May next year. That is the forecast now. The increase on 1 November will be $2.25 and the next increase is estimated to be $3. Since it will be tied to the increase in the CPI, the Government predicts a 33 per cent increase in the inflation rate. I do not mean that there will be an inflation rate of 33 per cent but an increase of 33 per cent in the inflation rate. The increase will rise from $2.25 to $3 to compensate pensioners for the increase in the CPI during the September and December quarters of this year. So the 
Government does not believe its own propaganda about inflation going down. The Government itself predicts an increase of 33 per cent in the rate of inflation during the current half year. 
The other point I wish to raise relates to the fact that benefits are not being indexed. The only thing that is being indexed is the actual pension. The automatic adjustment provisions will not apply to unemployment and sickness benefits payable to persons under 18 years of age. I am not necessarily arguing that unmarried persons under 18 of age should receive the same unemployment or sickness benefits as are payable to older people. What I am saying is that there ought to be a percentage increase and that at some stage a decision must be made as to whether the actual amount is adequate. The persons under 18 years of age ought to be entitled to a percentage increase in the same way as everybody else. The next point is that there will be no automatic adjustment of mothers' and guardians' allowances. There will be no adjustment to supplementary assistance and allowances, benefits for children or, most importantly, what is now called the family allowance, or child endowment. We come back to the basic trickery in social security under this Government. The honourable member for Oxley, who led for us in this debate, pointed out that every tax paying family in Australia is worse off this year because of the changes. The indexed amount of rebate would have been $4.35 in the case of the first child plus 50 cents for child endowment. The family would have received $4.85 net benefit during each week for the first child. Now, the amount will be $3.50, a loss of $1.35. A family with 2 children would have received $8.70 as tax rebate plus $1.50 as child endowment for the 2 children, a total amount of $10.20. But they will receive $8.50 as a family allowance for 2 children, a loss of $1.70. The family with 3 children would have received $13.05 as a tax rebate plus $3.50 as child endowment, a total of $ 16.55 compared with the new family allowances of $14.50, a net loss of $2.05. For 4 children, there is a loss of $2.65 a week. This is the case with all tax paying families in this country. 
In addition to that, the important point that people must realise is that there will be no indexation of child endowment or family allowances. Yet, as you well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Government has given an undertaking to index taxation and related areas such as tax rebates. When I raised this point before, Government supporters said that the Government at no stage claimed that it would index tax rebates for dependent children which were increased from $200 to $226. In fact, it is quite clear from the Budget Papers that the Government did that. It did so for the purposes of calculating zone allowance. If honourable members opposite look at the Budget Papers, they will see quite clearly that the $200 child rebate was increased to $226. But that has been withdrawn. It was allowable only to people living in certain zones of this country. 
I would like to raise very quickly a point that has been dealt with repeatedly in the House. I admit that it was the case under our Government also. The Minister spoke of it in his speech. Certain amendments are being introduced in the legislation. I refer to the change in the definition of dependants, spouses and so on and to the question of  de facto  relationships. I am one who supports a differential pension rate for single and so-called married people. I think an excellent argument can be made, and always could be, that it is cheaper for 2 people to share accommodation and facilities in a home than it is for 2 single people living separately in different places. It is reasonable to have a lower so-called married rate of pension. However, I see a difficulty in this area. It must be unpleasant, I am sure, for all except the  voyeurs  in the Department of Social Security- hopefully, there would not be many of them- to enforce the rule and to check on the actual relationship of people. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and other honourable members have repeatedly raised the point about checks on aged pensioners who were living together to see whether they were living in a man-wife relationship or just living together. 
My point is that that difficulty ought to be overcome. It is quite ridiculous that a lower rate of pension is paid for 2 people living in a manwife relationship compared with 2 people just living together not in a man-wife relationship. If 2 people are living together- they may be brothers, sisters or friends- they save expenditure, the premise upon which we base our argument that the married rate ought to be lower than the single rate. Many of these ridiculous arguments about checking up on people could be overcome by changing the legislation so that it is not a question of a single pension rate or a married pension rate but whether 2 people are sharing accommodation and expenditure. 
It does not have to be a  de facto  relationship. It could be 2 women or 2 men living together. For example, the honourable member and another member of the National Country Party could lose their seats after the next election. They would be entitled to live together. It seems to me to be unreasonable to make a distinction on the basis of a sexual relationship that may or may not exist. It is completely irrelevant to the expenditure need of the 2 people concerned. 
Another point I would like to raise is that there will be no payment of unemployment benefit to school leavers coming on to the labour market now until February 1977. The Government has decided not to pay any unemployment benefits for school leavers until February of next year, even though they will be hitting the labour market almost from now on, as I understand it, and certainly from November. For 2 or 3 months while they are looking for jobs, those people who cannot find jobs will remain dependent on their parents and on any money they can borrow or otherwise obtain. They will not be entitled to the unemployment benefit. To my mind, that provision has never been properly explained by the people who introduced it. I hope that some explanation will be given either by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this House or by the Minister for Social Security when the legislation comes before the Senate. 
I deal now with the change in the means test and the new income test to determine pension entitlements. I can see arguments in favour of it and I can see arguments against it. On a number of occasions, I have successfully appealed on behalf of some of my constituents who were ineligible to receive an age or invalid pension on the basis that the means assessed- not income- were too high. People who own 5-acre or 20-acre properties in parts of my electorate find that they are unable to subdivide or to sell any of those properties. Yet, the calculation of their means was done on the basis that only a small part surrounding the house was counted as being part of the property. It was limited to the house or what was necessary and the rest was considered to be the property. Such people were then rejected as ineligible to receive a pension. I must say that in every case in which I have made an appeal to the appeals tribunal, the people concerned received a pension and the means, as assessed, were altered to income only. In that sense, the legislation is a step in the right direction. I agree with the honourable member for Oxley that some people will try to get around this provision. The Minister says that this is a recommendation in the first main report of the Henderson report on poverty. He is not being completely honest when he says that. While Professor Henderson did recommend that, the recommendation was part of another exercise. He recommended that there should also be a capital gains tax or some other tax dealing with the people whose actual property increases at a large rate although they still are eligible for social service benefits. 
The question of superannuitants is a special one. It is difficult to explain. As those people who have followed the argument know, it is a question of following changes made to the legislation in about 1971 or 1972. People receiving superannuation or annuity were able to change that income to a capital sum for purposes of deciding the means test eligibility. Obviously, the capital sum decreases as a person gets older. If that person were receiving $20 or $30 a week by way of superannuation, the capital amount on which this was based would be greater when the person was aged 61 than when he was aged 68 because the number of years for which the amount would be paid would be less as his age increased. Therefore, such a person may have been originally eligible for the pension or would become eligible at some earlier time than the time at which the actual means test disappeared, age 70. If the Government removes this choice, a significant number of people will be worse off. We have estimated the number to be of the order of 30 000 immediately. Of course more will be affected each year. What the Government proposes is not to take away the pension from anybody who would be adversely affected but to freeze that person's pension at the current amount. So if that person's pension really decreases by, let us say, $8 a week because of the new means test, he will not lose that $8 a week. He will continue to get his present pension but he will not get any increase in his pension, even though there are rises in the consumer price index until that increase amounts to $8. 
I think it is a bit rough on the people concerned. The Government will certainly get a lot of people objecting very strongly about this matter, and, from their point of view, justifiably. In addition, those people have just recently been hit with a significant increase in taxation. Many of them did not have to pay tax under our scheme but they now have to pay tax because the age limit has been removed. Also in many cases of course they now have to pay the Medibank levy or if they want to insure themselves for intermediate wards, for example, they have to pay a significant amount. These people will be significantly worse off. I wonder whether the Government really thought the position through when it made its decision on the changes to the means test. That point is covered by paragraph (e) of our amendment which states: 
protect the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in this legislation. 
It was originally our intention to move some amendment to prevent the freezing of pensions but it is not possible for us to do so because it would mean an increase in expenditure on the part of the Government. Those honourable members who are familiar with the forms of the House will realise that we are not able to move amendments which increase the total expenditure by the Government. 
So in summing up, I just hope that some of the people on the Government side- some of the backbenchers- who possibly have not thought the position through might think about it again as they did in the now famous case of funeral benefits for pensioners. Again, a relatively small number of people are significantly disadvantaged. They are the people on superannuation who benefited under the present scheme. However, every pensioner is adversely affected by the fact that pensions will not be paid at the highest rate in line with consumer price index increases but at a rate some 8 or 9 months behind the actual current rate. I therefore appeal to Government supporters to have another look at the matter. I do not expect them to do anything about it in this chamber. But they might have second thoughts when the Bill goes to another place and put pressure on the Government to have another look at it. 
I will take just 2 minutes of the time of the Committee. There is much argument today on the part of the Government that it is better to have the proposed system of a changed means test to one of converting to or eliminating the question of capital. In 1972 a government not very dissimilar from the present Government, as I understand it, led by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  introduced the proposition that superannuitants should be able to capitalise their superannuation. The opposite viewpoint is now put. It was argued by that Government in 1972 that 46 500 pensioners at that stage would benefit from capitalising their superannuation. Capitalisation of this sort is now prohibited under the proposals of the present Government. 
It seems terribly reasonable and rational to me- I challenge anyone on the other side to deny- that if 46 500 pensioners benefited by capitalising superannuation, about, the same number will now be disadvantaged and will suffer from this proposal. 
-I know it will be greater. In 1972 46 500 pensioners allegedly benefited by capitalising. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  who pretends to support pensioners in the area that he represents, argues that the opposite should be done. Surely if they benefited then the opposite will happen now and they will lose those benefits. That is obviously so because as the Minister for Health who introduced this legislation, and who is now at the table, has pointed out, there will be a large number of people who will be worse off under this proposal. To prevent this happening the Government has undertaken not to reduce people's pensions but to freeze their pensions at the present value. Pensioners will still suffer because their pensions would have gone up next May and the following November. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  shakes his head. I would be very interested to hear how he can possibly argue that that is not true. It will be interesting to hear anyone on the other side argue that the 46 500 people who received the benefit will not suffer if the benefit is removed. That is exactly what will happen. Pensioners will receive their present level of pension. They will not receive an increase in the rate of pension even though this Government, as pointed out earlier thus afternoon, estimates that the inflation rate will increase by 33 per cent during the next 6 months. Although this will be the increase superannuitants will receive no benefits from the Government. It is all very well for the honourable member for Sturt and the honourable member for Denison to smile about this. We have previously heard the honourable member for Denison refer to all the old people in his electorate as 'plonkos'. It took him some time to get away from that. 
-I will be happy to hear any honourable members opposite - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will resume his seat for a minute. The honourable member for Denison will withdraw that remark. 
-I will be very interested to hear the Minister or any honourable member on the Government side explain to me how people who benefited from something that was done 3 or 4 years ago by the then McMahon Government will not suffer when it is proposed to do the opposite. 
-Has the Minister for the Capital Territory seen reports that members of the Victoria Police Force are now working according to regulations and that this involves them in not driving unsafe vehicles, exceeding speed limits or interviewing suspects alone? Does the Australian Capital Territory Police Force have the same regulations? If so, how can we get the police in the A.C.T. and, for that matter, in the other States to work according to those regulations? -  Mr STALEY-  I am not responsible for the Victoria Police Force. As far as the Australian Capital Territory Police Force is concerned, I think that all members of this House and people in the Territory agree that it has a first class reputation for providing an extremely line service in the control of demonstrations and all manner of things in the Territory. 
I take this opportunity tonight to speak in the adjournment debate mainly because there are a fair number of Government members in the House and I want to put a point to them. I have a vague feeling that they did not enter the chamber to listen to me, but I will take this opportunity nonetheless since I do not usually speak on foreign affairs in the adjournment debate. The other day, a Government member- I cannot remember now who it was- when speaking on some other issue made the point that he supported  President  Ford's return to the presidency of the United States of America. I know that we do not have a vote and that we cannot have a significant influence on what happens in the United States in 13 days time, but I put to honourable members that it is not in the interests of Australia that  President  Ford be returned. Honourable members on the Government side are interjectingI thank them for their support. Some of them at least may be intelligent enough to see that it is terribly important that the United States foreign policy be an effective foreign policy. It has not been an effective foreign policy for the last few years because the political balance has been divided between the presidency and the Congress. All the Presidents since 1968 have been from the Republican Party and during all that time- I cannot recall the exact details- they have faced both a Senate and a House of Representatives controlled by the Democratic Party. Nobody- not even the keenest Republican in the United States- believes that the Republican Party can gain control of both Houses of Congress. They have a vague hope that they may win the presidency. If the Republican Party nominee were to win the presidency, I believe the net result of this would be a Republican  President  and a Democratic House of Representatives and Senate. 
Those of us who believe that the United States influence in world affairs is important and essential surely must believe also that to have an effective United States policy what is needed is a  President,  government or executive which can with some confidence meet with other countries and make commitments on behalf of the United States which are not likely to be overthrown by a hostile Senate or a hostile House of Representatives. I would therefore argue that it is in the interests of Australia and of all the countries that are broadly described as the countries of the free world that in 2 weeks time former Governor Carter become the  President  of the United States. 
I am not one of those who are exactly carried away by  Mr Carter.  Certainly, I would not have voted for him in the primaries if I had had a vote. But he is now the endorsed Democratic Party candidate and I put to honourable memberseven those who normally would feel a greater affinity towards the Republican side of politics in the United States as I suppose most honourable members on the Government side do- that the most essential impact of American politics, so far as Australia is concerned, will take place if we have an effective United States in foreign affairs. The only way we are likely to get that is by a victory by  Mr Carter.  I think this is even more important at the present time when what is happening in China is extremely debatable. It is a pity that the Government has not seen fit, even in response to some Dorothy Dix questions, to give some information as to what is actually happening in China at the present time but I suppose the Government has very little information. There have been sudden changes. I noticed a news item in today's Melbourne  Herald  suggesting that the Soviet Union has threatened to intervene in China at a time when the Chinese leadership is not at its strongest. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I remind him of the congratulatory message which he sent last week to  Mr Hua  Kuo Feng on, as the Prime Minister put it, 'his recent appointment as  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party'. I ask: On what other occasions has the Prime Minister sent messages of congratulation to persons achieving positions of leadership in, firstly, foreign communist parties and, secondly, foreign democratic parties? Would it not in any case be more appropriate if he signed such a message as 'Leader of the Fraternal Liberal Party' rather than as 'Prime Minister of Australia'? 
I should like to raise the question of Medibank Private, which is part of the Health Insurance Commission's responsibility. As we all know, Medibank Private was established recently and came into force on 1 October this year. I wish to complain about the fact that Medibank Private has decided, on instructions from the Government, to have all its banking done by the Bank of New South Wales rather than by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. The net result of that will be a loss of revenue to the people of Australia because the Commonwealth Bank will not be the banker for Medibank Private and there will be a very significant profit for the Bank of New South Wales. I am sure it is quite obvious to all of us, even those on the other side of the House, that this is a payoff for the large amount of money that was either donated directly by the Bank of New South Wales or indirectly raised by such people as Russell Prowse of the Bank of New South Wales for Liberal Party electioneering at the last election and the previous election in 1974. 1 think it is up to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at present overseas, to explain to the House why he gave instructions to Medibank Private to bank with the Bank of New South Wales rather than to do what is normally done by Government departments and authorities and have the banking done either by the Reserve Bank or, in other cases, by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. 
Could I take the two or three minutes remaining to me to deal with a question that I asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  earlier today. In effect, I asked the Prime Minister why he had sent a message of congratulation to Hua Kuo-feng, the  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. Let us be quite clear about this. The handout from the Prime Minister's office for the Press on 27 October 1976 reads as follows: 
The Prime Minister has sent the following message to China's  Chairman,  Hua Kuo-feng. It was delivered today by the Australian Ambassador,  Dr Stephen  Fitzgerald. 

 His Excellency, Mr Hua Kuo-feng 
Chairman of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females (i) under the age of 21 years and (ii) over the age of 21 years were registered for employment as at (A) July 1975 and (B) July 1976 at the Commonwealth Employment Service officers at (I) Penrith, 
Granville, (III) Fairfield, (IV) Liverpool and (V) Parramatta. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to raise 2 points tonight. First, it gives me great pleasure, having spoken the week before last in support of the Democratic Party candidate for the American presidency, to say that it appears at this stage that - 
Yes, my boy has won. Let me reiterate the point that I made on this matter which, I think, is significant for the people of Australia as distinct from the people of the United States of America. The win by my boy is of benefit to Australia and to all countries associated with the United States of America. That country has a system of government where the Executive is made up of the  President  and the Congress. When that Executive has significantly similar views we can expect some continuity of policy and a much better chance of undertakings given by the  President  to overseas countries being carried out and being supported by the Congress. The Congress- the House of 
Representatives and the Senate- has the power to prevent certain things happening in the United States, particularly regarding foreign policy and finance. That includes the financing of all kinds of projects. It is important that the  President  be a person who does not face almost automatic opposition from Congress, either both Houses or one House. 
As I pointed out in my speech the week before last, although there was some doubt as to who would become the United States  President,  there was no doubt that the Democrats would keep control of both Houses of the Congress. It is therefore important from our point of view that the  President  be a member of the same Party. I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is present. I do do not expect him to come out with messages of congratulations to Jimmy Carter. After all, his Leader is more concerned about sending messages of congratulations to the  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. 
The handout of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Press stated quite clearly that a message was addressed to  Mr Hua  on the basis of his being the  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China in Peking. 
The honourable member for Denison may be referring to the fact that perhaps Carter has not won the election. I am not sure about that. In the 2 minutes of speaking time remaining to me I would like to refer to another important matter about which this Government can do something. I have been informed by residents of 2 country towns, namely, Cowra and Young- I think they are in the electorate of Hume, but the electorate is not terribly important; I am not blaming the honourable member who represents those areas for what is happening in them in this respect- that doctors in those 2 towns have put up notices in their surgeries stating that they will not see patients who do not subscribe to private medical funds. 
The whole proposition concerns the question of freedom. It is not the business of a doctor to know to which medical fund, if any, a patient belongs. The Austraiian Medical 
Association has always argued that the account for a service should be rendered to the patient. It should not be of concern to the doctor to know from where the patient receives his or her refund. I hope that the honourable member for Griffith realises that. It is very important that no pressure be exerted on people to tell their doctor before a consultation to what fund, if any, they subscribe. It is none of the doctor's business. The doctors should not be concerned as long as he gets paid. It is very important that pressure not be exerted on people in this respect, especially on people in country towns, where the choice could be very limited because there is only one practice. The Government should intervene in respect of this issue. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Following a private conversation I have had with him and other information he has received, is he aware that doctors in some New South Wales country towns- for example, Cowra, Young and Dubbo- have notices in their waiting rooms telling prospective patients that they must belong to a private health fund? Does the Minister agree that what fund a patient belongs to is no concern of the doctor as long as he gets paid- a policy with which even the General Practitioners Society agrees? Does the Minister agree that in a country town this practice amounts to very unpleasant pressure on patients? What can he do about it? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of Prospect were registered as unemployed as at (a) July 1975 and (b) July 1976. 
What proportion of those persons were (a) under 21 years of age, (b) 2 1 to 45 years of age and (c) over 45 years of age. 
What proportion were (a) males and (b) females. 
How many dependants were claimed by these people. 
How many of these persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships when retrenched and (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: 
1 ) Has the Minister studied the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. 
Has the Minister referred it to another committee for consideration; if so, when does he expect to have this further report. 
When does the Minister expect to announce the Government's intentions in respect of the report. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
anaesthetics, (iv) pathology services, (v) radiological services and (vi) operations. 
I take the opportunity tonight to make one criticism of the people who decide programming of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The ABC  Monday Conference  program last night dealt with Darwin. The pros and cons of what has happened since the cyclone in Darwin nearly 2 years ago were discussed. The point I make is that the program was recorded in Darwin in mid September. That point was also made during the program. It was obviously felt at that stage not to show the program. It was shown last night obviously to publicise the book written by MajorGeneral Alan Stretton. I will not comment on the book because I have not read it and I do not know the details of it, but I think it is completely wrong for the ABC to get involved in commercial advertising without being paid for it. I know that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  once suggested in this House that the ABC should get involved in advertising. I have some reservations about that. Advertising is a matter of collecting money and not a question of doing the advertising for nothing. It is not a matter of using handouts to publicise a particular commercial venture, and this obviously is a commercial venture. I do not know the publishers of the book but they must have some influence with the programmers at the ABC. 
I am not criticising Robert Moore, the producer  of Monday Conference.  The program was recorded in mid-September and he may well have been unaware that the book by Alan Stretton was to come out some 2 months later. We do not want the ABC to deteriorate into the sort of news organisation of the daily papers in Sydney. The 3 groups, including the old Consolidated Press group, have significant interests in travel agencies. They push overseas travel continuously with pages and pages of publicity handouts. Anybody who reads the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Daily Telegraph,  the  Sun  and the  Daily Mirror  must be impressed or depressed by the pages and pages of obvious handouts which appear day after day, week after week. The only reason for them of course is that the owners of the newspapers also have an interest in travel agencies and they also accept advertisements from people involved in overseas travel. By doing this the newspapers in effect deteriorate into the sort of throw away papers of the suburbs. The suburban papers quite openly accept editorial matter for the purpose of advertising. 
I conclude by in fact giving a commercial for a booklet that has been published by a former Liberal Party candidate for one of the seats in the Australian Capital Territory, Larry Pickering. I refer to a lovely cartoon in which the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is depicted walking blindly along the road. Somebody asks him: 'How come you are blind?' He says: 'It is because I have been over-stimulating the private sector'. I congratulate Pickering in seeing that point. I felt like raising it this afternoon when the Treasurer again talked about stimulating the private sector. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report of an interview with  Colonel M.  Kadhafi, the Libyan Head of State, appearing in  Newsweek  on 20 September 1976 in which the Colonel is reported as saying that Libya applies Islamic law against terrorism. 
If so, can he say what is the Islamic law referred to. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Obviously nobody in the House would defend drug trafficking. None of us have really come up with any sort of intelligent suggestion of what ought to be done. We have discussed increasing punishments, attacked the traffickers, made highly emotional statements and alleged all kinds of connections between one thing and another. These attitudes will not solve the problem. I am not sure that the problem can be solved. In many ways people get hooked on these drugs as an alternative to other things. These are the people who cannot face up to the pressures of society. Some people say that this is due to modern living, although it was going on for a long time before the alleged pressures of modern life came to the fore. People m some countries are addicted to some of these drugs and there seems to be very little pressure on them. I refer to subsistence farmers living in the countryside. We just do not know what the specific pressures are. 
I do not want to get into any lengthy argument, but I would like to raise a couple of points. Firstly, it is obvious that the present laws in the sense of preventing addiction are not working. Secondly, we do not really know why people become addicted. The South Australian Government, under Premier Don Dunstan, has I think during the last week or two set up a royal commission to have a proper look at the drug situation in Australia. As far as I know there has been no royal commission previously on this matter. There have been what would correspond to our royal commissions in the United States. I think there was something called the President's commission of inquiry. There was certainly a royal commission in the United Kingdom. I am not sure that those inquiries have come up with anything particularly brilliant. We have to keep on trying. We have nothing to lose, so to speak, by having another commission and listening to people who think they have some sort of solution. 
I came into this debate rather unexpectedly after listening to the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  who, I think, in all good faith, adds to the problem by glamourising- he in no way supports drug trafficking- and emphasising the amount of money involved. In a couple of sentences he spoke about a $250,000 haul, a $ 1 m haul, and a $3m haul. I do not believe that sort of money is really involved in this activity in Australia. Even if it is we should not talk about it as it attracts people. Let us be perfectly candid about people's attitudes to crime and money in this society and probably in most societies. A significant number would be prepared to do anything if they are offered enough money. 
People are prepared to murder others allegedly for $5,000 or $10,000. We will not do anything more to drug pedlars or to people involved in drug traffic than we do to murderers. Obviously that is not the solution. As I have said before, we have to stop the Press, the media, parliamentarians and other people who sometimes like to get cheap publicity by speaking of the large amounts of money involved. Some people, such as reverends, make their speeches on Sundays- that is the time when reverends make most speeches anywayprobably because less news is available for Monday morning newspapers and Sunday night radio and television. The amounts of money involved are fictitious. I have asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who is in charge of this legislation questions on this matter. 
If, when a person was being prosecuted for bringing heroin into the country or for having drugs for the purpose of sale and prosecutors said that 10 grams or 40 grams were involved the story would not get a headline. Quite often witnesses talk about $500,000 or $lm worth of drugs, the implication being that anyone who gets into that sort of racket can make a colossal amount of money and that if he gets away with it once he will never have to do it again. Let us face it, many people, if they thought that with one highly immoral and criminal action they could make that sort of money, would be tempted to have a try, especially when it is remembered that only a small percentage of criminals get caught. The odds are pretty good. People will invest at much shorter odds to win much less money at race courses. 
I appeal to the Minister to instruct his departmental prosecutors and to Ministers in charge of State police forces to instruct their officers not to go along to court stressing the huge amounts of money involved. Evidence should just be given of the actual quantity of drugs involved. After all, the value is fairly fictitious. Obviously it must vary from week to week and month to month. Maybe demand is fairly steady- possibly it is increasing- but obviously supply must vary from time to time. I have never been involved in this activity, obviously, but it seems reasonable to me that the value that is placed on a haul by the police or the customs agents is a fairly arbitrary figure. It is a figure which is calculated on the basis of the whole amount being sold at top retail price. 
I have not been in court when one of these prosecutions has taken place. I do not know whether the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  is coming into this debate. He may be aware of what happens in the courts and whether there is any cross-examination by counsel for the defence when the prosecution states that large amounts of money are involved. I do not know whether such amounts are ever questioned, and it is pointed out that really only a much smaller amount is involved. My objection is not to try to protect the people who have been prosecuted. My aim is to deglamourise this business. 
Let us face it: Whether we are talking about film stars, people who conduct radio sessions or people who are involved in crime, our society and our news media love to exaggerate the amount of money involved. They talk about $100,000 and $200,000 contracts for radio and television personalities. Just as such talk attracts people to the entertainment profession, which is an honourable one, it will also attract other sorts of people to the drug trade if they see headlines about the huge amounts of money involved. There is no need for it. It is not necessary for any other purpose than to obtain headlines in the newspapers. There is no point in it. It is obviously not true. I cannot see any positive argument in favour of mentioning these sorts of amounts apart from obtaining publicity. I am talking about the positive aspects of the situation from the point of view of avoiding the drug trade and attracting people to it. If it were emphasised continually to people that the total amount any individual may make is very small-probably that is not the case with the people who are in charge of the racket- in the pushing and smuggling of the drugs and that their risk of apprehension is relatively large, I could see some point in such publicity. It would discourage people from getting involved in the drug trade. 
However, I urge the Minister who is now at the table, and his counterpart Ministers in the States who have something to do with advising the prosecutors in the court cases, to try to changeperhaps over a couple of years- the sort of publicity that is given in these cases. At least let us see what happens. Let us have no publicity about the matter or at least no publicity about the huge amounts of money. By all means, if newspapers think it important enough and it will impress people- but I doubt it- let them carry the headline to the effect that 75 grams or whatever the quantity of drugs may be was confiscated in a haul. But I suggest to honourable members that newspapers would not consider that newsworthy because people would not know what 75 grams of a drug constituted. Therefore, fewer people would look at the newspaper and think that there was a lot of money in it. They would not think: ' If somebody makes me an offer when I come back from Bangkok - 
Yes, it could be Bali. People will not agree if somebody offers them what they consider to be some huge amount to bring back drugs. Obviously, I have no objection to this piece of legislation. I am speaking to the general workings of the narcotic drug Acts. I urge the Minister once more to consider my suggestion. 
I wish to make a brief reply to the remarks earlier of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  He made the point strongly that marihuana was potentially dangerous, saying, I think, that it caused cancer, affected women's ovaries and did all kinds of other things that might possibly attract headlines. There is very little evidence that it does this to any significant extent. I am not suggesting that people ought to smoke marihuana. I oppose the use of any of the drugs which affect people 's state of mind. The only point I do make is that it was particularly hypocritical, coming from the honourable member for Kennedy, who very strongly supports the rnining and use of uranium, in relation to which the same sort of allegations at least have much more scientific basis than the allegation about marihuana. I emphasise again that I am not supporting the use of marihuana. But it is particularly hypocritical for a person like the honorable member for Kennedy to come into this chamber and make statements of that sort. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I shall ask a couple of questions of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  because I am in the same position as nearly everybody else in the House. We have been handed the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Bill which gives quite sweeping powers, apparently, to the AttorneyGeneral without giving any real explanation. I refer to clause 4 ( 1 ) (a) which states: 4.(1) The Attorney-General shall exercise his powers under this Act. . . where he is satisfied that- 
a foreign tribunal is exercising or proposing or likely to exercise jurisdiction or powers of a kind or in a manner not consistent with international law . . . 
Who will make a decision as to whether the jurisdiction is exercised in a manner not consistent with international law? A more important provision is clause 4(2) which, in effect, puts the Attorney-General beyond any challenge in any court. I do not believe that that ought to be possible. I hope that courts will rule clause 4 (2) out of order, if my interpretation of the clause is correct. I remind the House that it reads: 
The validity of any exercise, or refusal of the exercise, of any power of the Attorney-General under this Act is not affected by, and shall not be subject to challenge in any court by reason of, any failure to comply with the provisions of this section. 
We are told that the Attorney-General will do only certain things and that we ought to accept them because he will do them only under a particular section. Then we are told that his action cannot be challenged because it is beyond the power of that clause. As I understand it the Attorney-General can do almost anything because he cannot be challenged on that point. I would like to get some explanation. After all, the Attorney-General in his speech, if I remember correctly, referred to certain proceedings being taken in the New South Wales Supreme Court on 2 1 October. That is nearly a month ago. Why rush this Bill through tonight? If it is as important as all that, surely the Attorney-General can make an application in the New South Wales Supreme 
Court, if the matter comes up next week, to have a stay of proceedings. I am sure it would be granted if the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth intervened. I would like to get some explanations which have not come out about the Attorney-General being able to exercise this power without having any restriction imposed on him by any court of this country. 
-Could I come back once more to my point in relation to clause 4 (2). I do not dispute the sincerity of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  but I am not satisfied. I want to protect people. I am not happy that we should pass legislation which provides, as sub-clause (2) does, that the Attorney-. General can act in a certain way which cannot be challenged in any court. The sub-clause does not just refer to a foreign court, as the AttorneyGeneral implied. The actions of the Attorney- 
General cannot be challenged in any Australian court. They cannot be challenged by any State Attorney-General or by anybody else. The second point made by the Attorney-General is that we ought to be supporting this Bill because, if I understood him correctly, it will protect Australian citizens from being exposed to foreign legislation. Clause 4 (2) reads: 
The validity of any exercise- 
That is fair enough- or the refusal of the exercise, of any power of the AttorneyGeneral under this Act is not affected by, and shall not be subject to challenge in any court . . . 
So there is no protection for the Australian citizen; the opposite is the case. There may be an Australian citizen who would be entitled to protection under this legislation. Earlier, clause 4(1) states: 
The Attorney-General shall exercise his powers . . . 
It does not state that he may exercise his powers, it states that he shall exercise them. Then it states apparently that he can refuse to do that and that refusal cannot be challenged, even though it is in the interests of an Australian citizen that the Attorney-General ought to be challenged, that he ought to be exercising his powers. The Attorney-General said that he hoped no reasonable Attorney-General would do anything contrary to that. I am not one of those people who has complete faith in Attorneys-General, past or future. I will not comment on the current AttorneyGeneral. Surely this Parliament does not want to give absolute powers, powers which in this particular instance cannot be challenged in a court of law or by anybody in Australia, and that acts both ways,in relation to the exercise of his powers or his refusal to exercise his powers. We are completely in his hands and in the hands of any future Attorney-General. I for one am not prepared to accept that unless the AttorneyGeneral has a much better explanation than he has given so far by appealing to nationalism. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to allegations that some so-called 'access', 'ethnic' and 'community' radio stations, especially in Melbourne, have made very provocative attacks on ethnic communities. 
Is it a fact that transcripts are impossible to obtain. 
Will he investigate and report on these allegations, especially in view of the support these stations receive from public funds. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed for 12 weeks or longer (a) at the end of October 1975 and (b) at the latest available date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report of an interview with  Colonel M.  Kadhafi, the Libyan Head of State, appearing in  Newsweek  on 20 September 1 976 in which the Colonel is reported as saying that Libya applies Islamic Law against hijacking. 
If so, can he say what is the Islamic law referred to. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he send a congratulatory message to  Mr Hua  KuoFeng on his recent appointment as  Chairman  of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party. 
On what other occasions has he sent messages of congratulations to persons achieving positions of leadership in (a) foreign Communist parties and (b) foreign democratic parties. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many medical claims were paid by the Commonwealth and /or Medibank, including Pensioner Medical Service claims, for the half years ended (a) 30 June 1974, (b) 3 1 December 1974, (c) 30 June 1975, (d) 31 December 1975 and (e) 30 June 1976. 
What was the number of claims for each State and Territory in the categories of services used in his answer to my question No. 8 1 6. 
-Can the Treasurer tell the House what he and his Departments estimate will be the the effect of the 1  In  per cent devaluation on the Budget deficit. Does he still place the same importance on reducing this deficit as he did last year and earlier this year, considering the fact that he obviously has changed his mind on the importance of fighting inflation when this conflicts with the private interests of some of his Cabinet colleagues? Finally, considering the great benefits that the Treasurer sees arising from devaluation, why did he claim that the honourable member for Oxley pushed him into it? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
What was the text of the Declaration of Principles at the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, Habitat, in Vancouver, Canada. 
Was it approved by 89 to15, with 10 abstentions. 
Which countries were in each category. 
Did Australia explain its vote; if so what was the explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice: 
What proportion of eligible males aged (a) 60, (b) 61, (c) 62, (d) 63 and (e) 64 years apply for the service pension. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the Report of  Collins (Hass)  v  The Queen  ( 1 975 ) 8 A.L.R.. 1 50. 
) Has his attention also been drawn to the case notes reported in the Federal Law Review, June 1976, page 233, in which the commentator expressed the view that natural justice had been offended in the matter of a man's liberty and that some of the Court ruled that its own Rules overruled an Act of this Parliament; if so, is there any substance in these points. 
Will he, if necessary, take steps to amend the law to ensure that the Court abides by section 78 of the Judiciary Act 1903 which provides that parties may appear personally in every Court exercising Federal jurisdiction. 
-I would like to reiterate to the House a point that I raised when the original piece of legislation came before us. In a sense the blame must rest on the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  whom I have found to be a reasonable person; but it is depressing to realise that on 18 November this year honourable members opposite agreed to pass a piece of legislation which contained section 4(2) which is now repealed in the amending legislation. To remind honourable members I will read the sub-section which is now being deleted. The first part of the section deals with the powers which the Attorney-General can exercise under the Act. The second part, which is now being deleted, read: 
The validity of any exercise, or refusal of the exercise, of any power of the Attorney-General under this Act is not affected by, and shall not be subject to challenge in any court by reason of, any failure to comply with the provisions of this section. 
What is the point of putting provisions into legislation if the Attorney-General is then exempted from them? He is the officer who is charged with carrying out the provisions. I am not satisfied with any explanation that I have heard so far. I am depressed about the fact that the present Attorney-General, or for that matter any Attorney-General, was prepared to introduce legislation such as that and to defend it in the House. I am particularly depressed about the fact that obviously an overwhelming number of Government supporters in this House and in the Senate were prepared to pass that sort of legislation which was binding not only - 
The honourable member should look at the division lists that appear in Hansard. One honourable member on his side, the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  tried to support the Opposition; but he was gagged by the Government Whip when he showed that he had enough guts to get up and indicate that he would support the Opposition. It is extremely depressing also to realise that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  for example, who practises law, was prepared to pass that sort of legislation, giving that sort of power to any Attorney-General. I hope that, in closing the debate, the Attorney-General will give us some explanation even now, so late in the piece, as to what possible reason there could ave been for section 4 (2) which is now being eliminated. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What inquiries, task forces and reviews have been initiated by his Government since his appointment as Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the present weekly additional benefit to nursing home patients in (a) Victoria and (b) New South Wales $88.53 and $64.40 respectively, and will both be increased by $14 per week from 15 December 1976. 
) If so, what is the reason for this difference. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) In what unions and branches of unions has the Registrar received a request, under Section 1 70 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, that a union election be conducted by the Registrar or the Commonwealth Electoral Office with a view to preventing irregularities in each year since January 1955 to January 1976. 
Which of these requests were refused by the Registrar, and what was the reason for refusal in each case. 
In which of those requests granted by the Registrar was the election actually conducted by (a) the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and (b) the Registrar. 
How many ballot papers were posted to union members in each of the elections conducted by the Registrar or the Commonwealth Electoral Officer. 
How many of these ballot papers were (a) returned (b) not returned and (c) returned unclaimed in each of the elections. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Do figures released by the Austraiian Bureau of Statistics show that the Australian civilian population aged 15 and over increased by 103 000 to 9 888 300 between November 1975 and August 1976. 
Has the number of persons employed decreased by 5 1 500 during the same period. 
If the position is as stated, does this indicate that unemployment is becoming an even greater problem than suggested in the figures released by the Commonwealth Employment Service. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you are one of the best. 
-I draw the attention of the House to the Geneva Protocol of 1925-for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or other Gases and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare. This Bill deals with part of that Protocol in that it prevents the development, production, stockpiling, acquisition or retention of such biological weapons, but it does not do anything about the gases which are also mentioned in the Geneva Protocol. I raise this point in the hope that it will be considered by people who deal with problems associated with drawing up other conventions. My only point relates to the use of gases. To me, the question of the use of gases is not as clear cut as the use of bacteriological methods of warfare. The law strikes me as hypocritical to some extent and ridiculous to some extent. We get terribly excited about the use of certain gases which knock out people, make them nauseous or whatever gases used in warfare might do. To me it is a much more reasonable proposition if there is to be a war, or even for police use, to use gases which come under the definitions of the Geneva Protocol. They are certainly 'other gases', but they are probably also asphyxiating gases to some extent. It strikes me as ridiculous that one should exclude a type of warfare, if there is to be warfare, that does not leave any permanent damage to the person on whom it is used. If I had a choice of being affected by some gas which makes me nauseous for a day or which knocks me out for a few hours, and the following day I am OK, I would certainly prefer that to being hit with what are commonly called conventional weapons which, even if they do not kill one immediately, certainly injure one to the extent that one finishes up in hospital. 
There seems to be hypocrisy- I use that word again- about certain types of warfare or alleged warfare which ought to be considered in more depth before we say that they can never be used but that it is OK to shoot people or for people to be injured by shrapnel or bombs or explosives. I congratulate the Government on introducing this legislation which in effect ratifies the Convention and which introduces a method of dealing with individuals who are extremely unlikely- but it is necessary to do this under the Convention- to go in for any of the sorts of things that are prevented by this legislation. 
I shall take only a couple of minutes to draw to the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who is at the table, a matter which a constituent of mine has asked me to raise. The Bureau of Customs, which is under the control of the Minister, has possibly been more affected than other government departments by staff ceilings. The allegation has been made to me that the Bureau has insufficient staff to check the manifests of imports. It is claimed that the Bureau relies to a large extent on the honesty of importers in respect of the number of items, textiles or whatever, that are being imported. 
It has been pointed out to me that the Australian population loses in 2 ways. First, the community loses because of the loss of duty that should have been collected. Secondly, goods that are allowed in without the payment of duty but in certain restricted quantities create extra competition for the Australian manufacturers. This claim has been made by someone who is working in the Bureau. I hope that the Minister will look at this matter to see whether there is any substance in the claim or whether anything can be done to check on the method of reconciling the manifests with the quantity of goods imported. 
I should like to discuss some of the aspects of what has become known as the 'pathology rip-off or racket' as it has hit the Press during the last couple of weeks or so. I should like to emphasise that this is a long time problem. It is not a recent problem even though it has suddenly hit the news. I became a member of this House at the end of 1969. I had been in medical practice before then. I think it was round about that time that pathology laboratories started to develop with automation and with the machines becoming available it was possible for technicians and pathologists to make large amounts of money. This is, of course, 5 or 6 years before Medibank. They were able to get money from the funds-the Medical Benefit Fund of Australia Ltd and the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia- and those funds were aware of it. There was an organisation in Sydney called Preventicare which offered large benefits to doctors. I do not think that it did any kicking back' as it is called these days by actually giving money to the general practitioners who sent them unnecessary pathology work but what this organisation did do was supply computer terminals in doctors' surgeries. It supplied sisters to collect the specimens and the sisters were paid by Preventicare. The sisters were able to do other work for the doctors also. Therefore in effect what the doctor received was, of course, a free member of his staff. Preventicare went broke. I think it finally owed about $750,000, mainly to Customs Credit as I recall. The reason Preventicare went broke was that the funds decided not to pay on the money owed for the pathology carried out and I suppose that type of thing will tend to happen again. I am not sure what the legal position is. But just delaying payments can break those sorts of pathology laboratories. 
One of the interesting aspects then was that this organisation put computer terminals into doctors' offices thinking that doctors would be very interested not only in the pathology results that would come through the computer terminals but also in the fact that they could get some medical education. They could press a button which would help them in diagnosing conditions and so on. But as I understand it the most popular button to press was one- remember that this was in 1970-71- which gave the stock exchange fluctuations on the mining share market at any particular time and that was the button most often pressed in doctors' surgeries as far as the computer terminals were concerned. 
I do not think some of the comparisons which are being made at the present time are completely fair. It is not up to me to defend the present Government, but at the same time statements that there has been a doubling in expenditure on pathology from one 6-month period to another a year later are not completely fair because one is not comparing equals. One is comparing a 6-month period at the beginning of Medibank when lots of claims of course were not lodged, with a 6-month period a year or 18 months later which would include a whole 6 months work. I think the important thing to remember there is that there are all kinds of interest groups feeding information to the newspapers and to the media and they all have an axe to grind. I think that as parliamentarians we are aware that whenever we get information fed to us we have to realise what is in it for the person who is reporting that particular item. 
It is important to remember just what is happening at the present time. There are pathology laboratories run by pathologists- people who call themselves non-commercial private pathologists; there are pathology laboratories- 'commercial pathology laboratories' as they call themselves-run by non-medical pathologists. If they charge the patient the patient cannot receive a reimbursement of that charge from any of the funds. Therefore that charge is made by the general practitioner who has referred the patient to the pathologist unless there is a trained specialist pathologist on the staff. As I understand it, the laboratories pay the general practitioner 20 per cent or 25 per cent off the top. If the general practitioner charges the patient, the patient of course gets a refund from the fund. Alternatively the laboratories have what I referred to earlier- a trained specialist pathologist on the staff who has the accounts sent out in his name and that particular specialist pathologist is paid 25 per cent or 33 per cent off the top, or at least on the letterhead. 
But even the so-called non-commercial specialist pathologists who claim to be doing all the work themselves are not doing the work themselves. They employ non-medical technologists, biochemists and so on who do the work. Most of the pathology that is being done in Australia or anywhere for that matter is done by non-medical pathologists but they are specialists. They are specialist non-medical pathologists and they are undoubtedly better able to my mind to do the biochemical tests and most of the tests that are involved, than most medical pathologists would be. Most medical pathologists in fact would not be able to carry out the tests for which they charge and which they claim they have done. The tests have been done by people who have had a different training. 
One of the important things that arise from our point of view is the unnecessary expenditure. I noticed in today's  Australian  an article on the front page by Janet Hawley which gets closer to the facts of the matter than most of the articles that have been written on this topic. She refers in the article to one example of tests which were commonly asked for. I emphasise the word 'commonly'. The article says that one test on a patient included sliver function tests, 5 biochemical, 4 electrolytes, a lipid and cholesterol estimation and 4 enzyme estimations. For that work the refund is $115 under some circumstances. I would argue that that sort of test would be necessary only very rarely. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  may have had that sort of test on a number of occasions recently but very few other people in the community would need that battery of tests and for that sort of test to become common shows that lots of unnecessary tests are being carried out. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that these tests do not hurt the patient. They hurt the patient as a taxpayer. They hurt the community as taxpayers because unnecessary money is going to people but they do not hurt the patient. Once a person has had a sample of blood taken from him he does not care what they do with that sample and only one sample of blood is collected. 
I will compare that with unnecessary surgery which is performed on patients where there is a definite nsk involved as far as the patient is concerned. One of the interesting things that arise from this is that the Australian Medical Association, which is now being active about this socalled racket is far as pathology is concerned, accuses doctors of doing things for money and states that they are acting in a completely commercial way. It has always previously argued that it could not possibly imagine doctors performing unnecessary surgery or performing any unnecessary medical work just for the money. According to the AMA that just was not possible with the high ethical standards of the Australian medical profession. It is interesting to note that now, suddenly, when it affects other doctors' incomes the so-called private non-commercial pathologists through their association with the doctors agree that this is going on and that doctors are prepared to order unnecessary pathology just for the sake of getting an extra income. I think it is important for this House to be aware of the real facts behind this issue. It is a difficult one to deal with and I wish the Minister success in trying to cut down expenditure on pathology tests. At the same time, he should not forget that as long as we have fee for service payment for medical services this sort of practice will continue and the only way to deal with it is to abolish fee for service payments. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the decision by the Carter Administration to charge the cost to all those attending the recent inauguration ceremonies and the Prime Minister's often expressed view that there is no such thing as a free meal, will he arrange that all those attending Government functions for Her Majesty the Queen are charged for them, or does he feel that free meals are out only for those with incomes below $20,000 a year? 
asked the Minister for Foreign  Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to page ( 1 ) of a supplement entitled  The Genius of China  appearing in the  Age  of 17 January 1977? 
If so, does the newspaper claim that the supplement was written by  Dr Jocelyn  Chey, Cultural Counsellor, Australian Embassy, Peking? 
Does the article read like a propaganda handout from the Government of China? 
If so, is such a person considered suitable to be our Cultural Counsellor? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Has he seen or heard of a document called Charter 77, published in Czechoslovakia by so-called dissidents. 
Can he supply the House with any relevant sections of the so-called Helsinki agreement dealing with ( a) the protection of human rights in signatory countries and (b) any undertakings by signatories not to interfere in other countries. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has an organisation known as Nil Net Migration had a tax-deductible account opened for it by the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
) If so, on what basis was this done. 
Will he reconsider the availability of tax deductible donations for this and similar organisations. 
What other tax deductible donation accounts have been opened by the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make experts from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation available to participate in the public debate on the mining of uranium to help fulfil the recommendation in the Fox Report. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In which New South Wales country towns are private doctors refusing to treat standard ward hospital patients  (Hansard,  15 February 1977, page 78). 
Does the Prime Minister recall the first sentence of his Treasurer's economic statement delivered on 15 February which was to the effect that the year 1 976 was a year of considerable progress towards the aims 'we have set ourselves in bringing Australia's economic problems under control"? Is it a fact that employment in the private sector in Australia during that year fell by 7000 and that it increased in the public sector by about the same number? Does that not show that the Government's policy of slashing the public sector and expanding the private sector is unsuccessful on both counts? 
Yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  brought down his statement on the Government's foreign affairs policy. I do not wish to go over the statement in detail, but I would like to make some observations about foreign policy and happenings in the rest of the world, as I see them. I think it is appropriate, when speaking on foreign affairs for the first time this year, to take this opportunity to congratulate the United States on electing  President  Carter. The reason for this, as I pointed out before the election last year, is that it is important for us to have a United States government and a United States Congress in accord on foreign policy aims, broadly speaking. I do not think it is as important for us to agree with the United States on every relatively minor point of foreign policy as it is to feel reasonably confident that the United States is led by a  President  and an administration which are likely to get support for their policies, whatever they might be, through the 2 Houses of Congress. For a number of years now this has not been the case in the United States. We had a Republican  President  in the White House with an executive appointed by that Republican  President.  We had a situation in which the 2 Houses of Congress were quite strongly controlled by the Democratic Party. I think that this split has been bad for the so-called free world. Nobody was confident or sure just how much United States policy meant. 
Looking at overall events that have taken place in the world I put the proposition that to a large extent what happens is influenced by the fact that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China are in conflict. I realise that this view is not necessarily shared by everybody on this side of the House and judging by some of the speeches made by members on the other side of the House and by the usual newspaper editorials, hardly anybody seems to admit this. If China and the Soviet Union had a common policy, as they did up till about 1958, 1 think that it would be extremely difficult for the United States and for countries associated with the United Statesthe democratic countries of the world- to stand up to pressure from the 2 communist super powers. 
Australia was lucky, the world was lucky and those of us who believe in individual freedom were lucky that a split occurred between China and Russia after 1958. There is no point in going through the history of this matter. But it is important that that split occurred. First, I think it is important for us that there should be no war between the 2 countries. Secondly, it is important that a state of tension should exist between them. It is important for us that there is competition between China and the U.S.S.R. in the so-called Third World. It is important for us that these 2 countries undermine one another in some of the 
Third World countries. It is important that they compete with one another, that they do not trust one another, and that they have large numbers of troops on one another's borders. I think that all of these points are important from our point of view. I sometimes think that it is ridiculous that people who speak about, discuss and write about our foreign policy do not acknowledge this fact. I think it is the most important factor in foreign affairs at the present time. 
To my mind there seems to be more than ever before an attempt by the present Government to imply that we are identified or associated with the Chinese  vis-a-vis  the Russians. I do not want to take sides. I think that Russia and China are both totalitarian countries completely opposed to what we stand for. The only basis on which I would think it would be reasonable to support China  vis-a-vis  the Soviet Union is that the Chinese appear to be weaker. It is important from our point of view that these 2 countries should be kept from confronting one another and that the point should not be reached where, as the Chinese would put it, there would be absolute hegemony on the part of the U.S.S.R. vi'savis China. From that point of view I suppose it is reasonable to support the Chinese against the Russians. 
I am depressed when I sometimes see people who are opposed to the Russians go overboard and pretend that the Chinese Government is a much better type of government than the Russian Government, that the Chinese society is a much better type of society than the Russian. It is not. It is a completely totalitarian regime. I suppose that if there is any difference from a civil liberties or civil rights point of view that difference would be in favour of the Russian regime which for a number of reasons, one being the effluxion of time, has now reached the stage where at least it allows or is unable to prevent dissent from within and allows dissenters some publicity at least outside the country. None of this happens in China. 
I refer now to an article that recently was reprinted in the  Bulletin.  The article was written by Edward N. Luttwak Associate Director of the Washington Centre of Foreign Policy Research at Johns Hopkins University. The article appeared in the  Bulletin  of 19 February 1977 and it made a number of reasonable points. The author is one of the few critics to visit China who has reported some criticisms when leaving that country. He makes an important point on the last page of his article. After making the point that China is a weak country militarily compared with the Soviet Union he went on to state: 
Nor is there anything to suggest that China will become a superpower in 10, 20, or even 30 years. Hence the right-wing Sinophilia of those who abhor the Chinese system but who see virtue in Chinese power as a counterweight to the Russian, is as flawed as the left-wing Sinophilia of those who see virtue in a society which combines a maximum of unfreedom with a minimum of efficiency. 
To me this is a reasonable statement and yet it is only partly true because it is important to support the weaker of the 2 powers at any particular time. 
At this stage I would like to move away from the conflict between China and Russia and deal with the Indonesian situation and some of the problems that arise. We have all been upset by what happened in East Timor. I do not think there is any need for me to repeat the arguments in this respect. There does not seem to be much support in Australia for the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. It is not worth while repeating the argument against the occupation because, after all, no one would argue in favour of it. One of the points I would like to make in connection with Indonesia is this: There seems to be the feeling among people whose general attitudes in Australian politics I strongly support that the alternative to the present type of government in Indonesia is in the broadest sense a left type of government, whether we consider it hopefully from our point of view a social democratic type of government, a socialist government or even a government controlled by the Communist Party of Indonesia. I do not see such a government as an alternative to the present Government in Indonesia. The alternative as I see it in Indonesia at present is quite extreme, what I would call right wing and what I think most people would accept as being a right wing government, controlled by fanatical Muslims in the religious sense. They are the real alternative at the present time in Indonesia. They are the dangerous alternative in Indonesia. There is evidence that the Libyan Government is subsidising them. We all know that that has happened in the Philippines where the Muslim groups have been subsidised by the Libyan Government. At present peace talks are being conducted between the Marcos regime and the Muslim revolutionaries. The talks are being held in Libya which seems to be a rather ridiculous arrangement. It is an acceptance of the fact that somehow Libya has a right to intervene in the Philippines. The same sort of thing allegedly is happening, or potentially could happen, in Indonesia, in West Java where the Muslim tradition is much stronger than in the rest of the country. 
The present right wing military Government in Indonesia is one which obviously does not hold the democratic attitudes that we would expect in any Australian government. But the alternative government in Indonesia is not a left wing government but an extremely right wing fanatical religious dictatorship. I am sure that that would not be in the interests of Australia any more than the previous Sukarno regime was in the interests of Australia, but really a return to Sukarno is not one of the likely possibilities for Indonesia. 
I conclude by going back to the Chinese position. I do not have the question and answer with me in the House at present, but some time ago I put on the notice paper a question dealing with a supplement produced by the Melbourne  Age  on the exhibition of Chinese art that is touring Australia at present. I referred to the fact that the first page of that supplement had been written allegedly by  Dr Chey  the Cultural Counsellor in the Australian Embassy in Peking. I did not refer to the rest of the supplement; I referred only to the introductory page attributed to  Dr Chey.  It read like a handout from the Chinese Government. It had very little to do with art. It was just a political handout. I drew attention to this in the question. In reply the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that  Dr Chey  is a very nice person and that the rest of the supplement was copied from what had been written in an English newspaper about the exhibition. That had nothing to do with the question I asked. I asked a question about the introduction written by  Dr Chey.  I did not ask whether she is a nice person. I did not complain about what appeared on pages 2, 3 and 4 of that supplement. I referred to page 1 of the supplement. I would appreciate it if the Minister would at least look at the question. 
When I originally submitted the question to the Table Office it contained criticisms of the Minister. Those criticisms were withdrawn by the Table Office without its even consulting me. I have some reservations about that. That is the sort of thing I would expect to happen in China but not in Australia. In any case the position remains that when I finally received an answer to the question it was not a proper answer. I am pleased that I have been able to participate in this debate on foreign affairs, and I hope that members of this House will be given further opportunities to talk on foreign affairs. 
-We have just heard the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  tell us that everything would be all right in Australia if only the workers would work harder and take less money. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who is the  Deputy  Whip of the Liberal Party, nodded ponderously when the honourable member for Forrest said that the only increases should be on the basis of productivity. He was one of the members of the Government members committee who made a submission to the Remuneration Tribunal. It is all very well for people to stand up and say that everybody else should work harder and make sacrifices and get benefits only when there is an increase in productivity. Honourable members opposite are never prepared to make sacrifices themselves. I am not suggesting that they should make them but why be so hypocritical about the matter and ask other people to make them? That is what I object to. 
-That is exactly what I am being. That is why I am calling honourable members opposite what they are. The honourable member for Forrest referred repeatedly to the benefits of revaluation. I assume that he was actually referring to the alleged benefits of devaluation and that he was not referring to the revaluations which have repeatedly followed the devaluation. I will be interested to look at  Hansard  after he has corrected his greens to see whether he was referring to devaluation or whether he was referring to the revaluations. 
I think one of the important things about this Government and one of the depressing things about this economy is that we are getting a lot of big talk from the Government. We have heard from honourable members opposite before they came to power and since they have come to power how they are going to improve the economy and all the great things they are going to do. I do not agree particularly with their propositions but it is a defensible economic proposition that one tries to encourage the private sector by trying to slash the public sector. I am not one of those who support that proposition. But I will ignore that point. The important thing is that that is the Government's policy. It is the Government's belief that if it carries out that proposition it will in fact make the economy pick up. 
One of the depressing things about the whole matter is that the Government has not done that. The Government has talked big, but whenever it has had to do anything about the matter, whenever the Treasury has tried to do anything about it, the Government has panicked. The figures to which I referred at question time today and which were published last week by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed that civilian employment in Australia during 1976 increased by three hundred. That is bad enough because an additional 185 000 people over the age of 15 years were living in Australia at the end of December 1976 compared with 1 January 1976 but there were only 300 extra jobs available. But from my point of view of criticism of the Government, the important thing is that the details reveal that employment declined in the private sector but increased in the public sector. That is the impressive thing as far as I am concerned. We can criticise the Government from our political point of view as it is my personal belief that even if the Government carried out its policies they would not work. But the Government does not even carry out its own policies. It talks big. As soon as there is any pressure on the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  he caves in. As soon as there is any pressure on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  he caves in. As soon as there is any pressure on the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  from whom I consider to be rather pampered tertiary students in Australia, he caves in. As soon as any group in Australia, be it academics or students or other people in the community, puts pressure on the Government to give it extra money, the Government caves in. It does not even carry out its own policy. I do not know whether the Government really believes in it, because I think that deep down it really believes that the public sector ought to be restrained. It puts forward the proposition that people can spend their own money on the sorts of things that they want rather than give it to the Government in the form of taxation so that the Government can spend it on the sorts of things that it considers to be important. 
The Government is not doing those things. I remind the honourable members of what the 
Government introduced in the last Budget. It talked big about tax savings. Let us look at the real facts. This year the increase in payasyouearn taxation, which is the net tax paid by the wage and salary earners of this country, is estimated to be $ 1,775m. This is much more than we have ever increased taxation by. It is an increase of 25 per cent when inflation is running at a rate somewhere between 13 per cent and 16 per cent. The Government prefers the 1 3 per cent figure and we argue for the higher figure. But the Government is collecting 25 per cent more in taxation. 
That is right. The latest statement of financial transactions which is dated 28 February 1977 reveals that outlays- the things that the Government was going to slash because it was the great government that was going to slash things- have increased from $13.9 billion to $15.8 billion during the first 8 months of this financial year. That is an increase of more than 14 per cent during that period, which is greater than the alleged rate of inflation. Where has the slashing been? This Government promised the people that it would reduce income tax payments to give people the choice of where they could spend the money. In the period to 28 February 1977, the 8 months of this financial year, net pay-as-you-earn taxation has increased from $4,066m to $5,080m- an increase of $1,0 14m. This is extra money that has been collected from the people. It does not include the Medibank component, or if it does it is only a very small proportion of it because the levy came in on only 1 October. So the first 3 months of this 8-month period did not include that component. So proportionately the amount of extra payasyouearn taxation will be even more as we come to the end of the financial year. 
All I am suggesting to this Government is that if it believes in its policy, if it believes that it has to reduce government spending and encourage the private sector- it has even been completely unsuccessful with that- it should do something about the situation. It should do so on both counts; on the basis of resources because as I have pointed out, the number of people employed in private enterprise has dropped while the number of people employed in the public sector has increased, and on the question of money being taken by governments as distinct from being left in the pockets of private persons, I feel it is a pity that there is no representative of the so-called Workers Party or whatever it is called in this House. I think a John Singleton in this House could tear Government supporters to pieces because they are not doing the sorts of things which they promised to do and in which some of them at least believe. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  really believes the sort of stuff that his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  puts forward. Many honourable members opposite really believe those sorts of things yet the Government is not carrying them out. 
Social security payments will be increased by 8.2 per cent from the first pay period in May. Now the Government is arguing against a similar increase in regard to wages. All I should like to hear from the Government is on what basis it can justify its argument. On what basis can it say that whilst it is prepared to pay social security recipients an 8.2 per cent increase in benefits it is prepared to go into the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and argue that that increase should not be spread across the work force in general? There may be arguments for this approach but we certainly have not heard them in this House. In all the Budget Papers which we discussed at Budget time earlier this financial year, the predicted increase in the pension based on the estimated inflation rate was to be $3 a week payable in May. In fact the increase will be $3.60 a week- 20 per cent higher than predicted. Instead of rising to $46.50 the pension will rise to $47. 10. But the important thing is that inflation is 20 per cent higher than predicted. Yet we have the Treasurer coming into this House and saying in his first economic statement of the year on 15 February that the year 1976 was a year of considerable progress towards the aims the Government had set itself in bringing Australia's economic problems under control. What hypocrisy! Who believes the Treasurer? The Government makes predictions in the Budget, it exceeded the predictions by 20 per cent, and then it pretends that the situation is going according to plan. 
I am not criticising honourable members opposite on everything, I am just criticising them from their own point of view. The Treasury estimated a decrease of $55m in expenditure on unemployment benefit payments. It will be interesting to see during this financial year just how big the increase, not the decrease, is. 
Surely if the Government has a plan, if it believes that certain things will happen, if it plans its outlays and its income, if at about Budget time for the financial year 1976-77 it makes certain predictions and if those predictions do not come true, surely it is ridiculous for the Treasurer to make in this House an economic statement in which the opening words are that considerable progress has been made and that everything is going according to plan. The Government attacks us and other people. Recently I heard  Mr Eric  Robinson, the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, criticise people on his side of the political fence, federally and in the States, for talking down the economy, for criticising the Government by saying that it is not being effective. The Government cannot treat all members of the community as morons, especially those who make decisions on investment. An investment manager or a person who had to make some decision would think twice about taking any definite steps which could possibly improve the economy if the Government was always telling them that everything was going according to plan and yet if its predictions on unemployment and inflation were wrong. The predictions were out by 20 per cent or more and if the shift has not been from the public sector to the private sector, if the opposite has occurred both in expenditure and resources, surely people will think twice about taking those steps. 
-Yes, if they had alternative incomes outside the country. 
I am being perfectly serious about this. I think that if the Government wants the economy to improve- I assume that all of us do, because a significant number of people are suffering since the economy is not improvingthe community must have some justified faith in the sayings of the Government, the Treasurer, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the others who normally make statements on behalf of the Government. I emphasise that word 'justified'. 
You are trying to be very clever and funny. 
-That is true. Hopefully there are people in his electorate who have sufficient intelligence to ask him at some stage: 'Now, exactly what is the policy of your Government?' 
I hope you do. Then you will not be a member after the next election. Surely a member of Parliament must have sufficient intelligence to look at the sorts of things that governments, whether it is a coalition government or an Australian Labor Party government, are doing, to see whether governments are getting anywhere. Honourable members opposite should have the guts to stand up in their Party rooms, or wherever they raise matters in their Party committees, and ask their leaders, advisers, etc.: 'What can we do about it? What alternative methods of dealing with the economy are available to us? Should we really try to enforce the policy which we pretend we are carrying out of shifting things to the private sector, or should we give in to what our people like to call the big spenders and go ahead and spend more money?' 
If the Government intends to spend more money, hopefully it will do so in such a way that it will be employment-producing, not spend it in areas where the claw-back to the Government may be greater but certainly is not employment producing. It always shocks people when I say to them that from a fiscal point of view it is better to give money to doctors than to pensioners, because more of it, about 60 per cent, comes back if it is given to the doctors. Very little of it comes back directly if it is given to the pensioners, because they do not pay tax. 
I am not arguing in favour of it. All I am saying is that the net cost to the Government, to the Treasury, is different, depending on whom the Government gives the money to in the first instance. 
All right. 1 put it to the honourable member that the Government's policy is not working. I must admit that I had a vague feeling during the last year that we were in power, 1 975, that maybe what honourable members opposite said was correct- that there was a lack of confidence in the community and that the people with whom the present Government superficially at least had more empathy, the people who control our business enterprises, felt that a change of government would improve the position and that they would have more confidence in the Lynchs and the Frasers than they did in the Haydens and the Whitlams. It was a possibility. I am one of those who believes that the psychology of the people is quite important. I really felt that it was a possibility, that this could happen. It has not happened. It is obvious that it has not happened. If anything, the contrary has happened. 
The Government has taken certain steps, and the result is that the position is even worse than it was before the Government got into power. Surely it is time now to look at the Government's attitude and policy, to see what is going wrong. Why are people not spending more money? Why are they scared? Why are Ministers attending luncheons each day, speaking on every radio station and every television station, telling the people that things are on the improve, when nobody believes it? Why is that happening. 
No, but there is more to it. The reason why people do not buy used cars is that they have been caught buying used cars before. The cars have not been very good cars. Surely it is up to a government, when it makes a prediction that inflation will run at a certain rate, to see that it is not too far out. When it makes a prediction about unemployment it should not be too far out. If it is out significantly it must have the guts to say: 'Look, certain things have gone wrong.' It was a ridiculous performance by the Treasurer to say in the House that this is exactly what the Government planned. The Government cannot have it both ways. All I am asking of a reasonably intelligent group of people is that they put pressure on their Treasurer, their Prime Minister and whoever the so-called planners in their Government are to make up their minds. Should the policy be changed, or if the Government still believes that the policy is the correct one, should it be enforced more? 
It is up to the Government. I disagree with its policy, so it is not for me to say. At the beginning I said that I did not believe its alleged policy that slashing public sector expenditure and putting faith in the private sector would work. There are all kinds of reasons why I believe that, but I have not time to give them. Honourable members opposite believe it. Yet, believing it, they still do not carry it out. Then they get the wrong results. Hopefully somebody on the other side will try to reply to me. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) With reference to the statement, appearing on page 6 of the second Annual Report of the Health Insurance Commission, that the Treasurer was asked to authorise a payment of $294.Sm to the States on 28 June 1976 under the States Grants (Hospital Operating Costs) Act, what was the reason for this request. 
Was only $78. 9m of this sum related to hospital costs incurred to 30 June 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Who recommended that Lady Kerr be made a Dame of Grace of the Order of St John. 
It has been interesting to listen to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  We are complaining about misleading statements from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and from other members of the Cabinet. We certainly heard a fair number here this afternoon from the Minister who was undoubtedly briefed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who, I note has a credibility rating in the polls of 14 per cent. People believe 14 per cent of his statements- one in every seven. I suppose they are giving him credit for something they cannot actually remember. Maybe he was right a few years ago about some issue. 

 Mr Willis- Less than Bjelke-Petersen's. 
It is below Bjelke-Petersen's rating, as has been pointed out. How can anybody give credibility to statements from Ministers, Prime Ministers and Treasurers who talk consistently about a year of considerable progress? It is the old story. I am reminded of the cartoon that was in the  Australian Financial Review when  the argument about Medibank and inflation was going on. It showed the Treasurer standing knee deep in water saying: 'If it was not for the tide we would be on dry land. ' Just have a look at the sorts of statements that Government Ministers are making. The Prime Minister and Treasurer are leading them and encouraging them to go out and to make misleading statements. There are a few Ministers who are not prepared to do that. Good luck to them. They might not help the Government much but at least they are protecting their credibility. Let us have a look at the statement that the Treasurer made over the weekend to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party of Australia. On page 4 of the statement we received today we note that he stated: . . . the underlying rate of inflation (that is, after adjustment for the effects of Medibank) was recorded at an annual rate of 10.8 per cent - 
The Treasurer is comparing inflation rates on the basis not only of deleting the adverse effects of the changes in Medibank which amounted to an increase in the consumer price index of 3.2 per cent, but he also subtracts the beneficial effects of the introduction of Medibank- 2.8 per centfrom the inflation rate when we were in government and adds it to the original rate of inflation. What hide! In any case, if one ignores the increase to the CPI arising from Medibank changes on the basis that it is a form of tax, surely one would also have to alter the inflation rate under the previous Government for things that arose from definite Government action such as increases in indirect taxation, higher postal charges and so on. One cannot have it both ways. The Treasurer deducts figures resulting from Government action in one case and adds them on in another case and then gets completely fictitious figures. But even accepting the Government's figures, the Treasurer talked about a recorded annual inflation rate of 10.8 per cent. In the very next paragraph the Treasurer stated: 
We have, as we promised, cut out wasteful and unnecessary spending by the Commonwealth- federal outlays are estimated to increase by 1 1 .3 per cent this year - 
The Government is talking about cutting out wastefulness. It states that inflation is running at 10.8 per cent a year. Yet Commonwealth expenditure increases by 11.3 per cent. How can one justify the 1 1.3 per cent increase in expenditure and still say that the Government is cutting out wastefulness if Government expenditure is increasing at a higher rate than inflation? Let us have a look at the next point the Treasurer makes. Two paragraphs further on he stated: 
We have, as we promised, significantly reduced the tax burden on individuals and companies- as a result of decisions made so far reductions in taxation will amount to around $3.3 billion during our first 2 years in office. 
That is just not true. They are fictitious figures. What is in fact happening this year is that pay as you earn taxation has increased by $ 1780m. It is the biggest increase in taxation rake-off by any Federal Government that we have ever had- an increase of $ 1780m in tax payments this year. And the Government is talking about tax reductions! The Treasurer then talks about family allowances. He refers to the reform by the introduction of family allowances that enables individuals and families to spend government financial assistance in the way that they choose, not in the way that the Government sets down. This is supposed to be Liberal philosophy. What in fact has happened? The Government took away the taxation concession for children. In fact every tax payer with dependent children in Australia this year pays between $2 and $3 a week in tax more than he would have had to pay if the Government had not introduced the changes. That may not be the way in which those people would choose to spend their money- by giving it to the Federal Government as tax money. On page 5 of his statement the Treasurer refers to 3 factors. I shall not detail them, but each is worked out to the December quarter of 1976. So one assumes that a new basis has been established and we will work everything out to the end of 1976. However on page 8 of his statement he states that living standards had increased during 1976. He goes on to say: 
Over the 12 months to the September quarter of last year real household disposable income increased by 2.9 per cent. 
Again this is a completely misleading statement. Here the Government takes the September quarter for 2 reasons: The first is that in October 197S Hospital Medibank came into force in many of the States in Australia and especially New South Wales. That meant an increase in household disposable income. The second is that in October 1976 the changes introduced by the present Government reduced household disposable income. So if one takes the difference between those 2 September quarters one gets a very nice figure of 2.9 per cent. We would not get anything like that figure if we took the period from December to December. But the Government is doing exactly what we are talking about- making completely misleading statements. On page 8 of the same statement the Treasurer said: 
The number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service today is only a fraction of a per cent higher than it was last year . . . 
A fraction of a per cent in any case is a fair bit. But let us look at the figures. We see, from page 16 of the Green Paper on Australia's immigration policies and population tabled last Thursday, that the annual increase in the labour force for 1976 was somewhere between 100 000 and 115 000 people. The actual work force- the number of people working- increased by three hundred during that year. Therefore, there were between 100 000 and 1 15 000 more people who wanted to get into the labour force but who were unable to get into the labour force. Therefore real unemployment in Australia increased by over 100 000 during that year. 
The Government talks about an improvement in the private sector and a slashing back of funds for the public sector for that purpose. The figures released earlier this month by the Bureau of Census and Statistics show that private sector employment decreased by 7300 during the past year and that public sector employment increased by approximately the same number- by 7600. 
There has been no increase in private sector employment. There has been a decrease in private sector employment in the last year and an increase in public sector employment. If one tackles the Government about it, the Government says: 'Yes, but that public sector employment did not increase in the Commonwealth; it increased in the States'. The reason for the Government saying that is that it blames the State governments for an increase in the public sector. But this transfer of employment inside the public sector is inevitable as programs are transferred to the States. The Government talks about block grants and transferring programs to the States. The States have to do certain things now, that the Commonwealth used to do before. Obviously they have to employ more people. Overall, we see that the private sector is not improving. There is no confidence. It is completely misleading for Government Ministers to pretend that there is an improvement in the private sector. In real figures the Government has increased unemployment by over 100 000- it has been necessary for the public sector in the States to pick up some of the slack. 
What is happening is that the Government does not even carry out its own policies. When it does have the chance to carry out its own policies it gives in, in every case. If the Government believes in its own policies why does it cave in on issues about which it allegedly feels strongly? The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in fact carries a number of responsibilities in this House. The Government caved in to the Australian Union of Students on the tertiary education allowances after only a one-day strike. It caved in to the Aborigines. It caved in to the academics who wanted and received an increase in salary of 8.4 per cent above the increase which resulted from indexation last year. It caved in to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and it gives in in every case. I am not neccessarily opposing these increases but surely this Government gives a completely misleading view of the situation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Was the Col Nolan Jazz Quartet invited to Peking by the Australian Embassy. 
If so, who paid for the trip. 
3 ) Was the trip organised as part of the cultural exchange program. 
Did the quarter play to non-Chinese audiences only; if so, is this the aim of our cultural exchange program. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to statements made by the Movement Against Uranium Mining that donations are tax deductible, if made via the Australian Conservation Foundation; if so, are these donations tax deductible. 
What rules apply to this body and similar bodies to obtain tax exemption for donations. 
Is the Australian Conservation Foundation treated as a religious body. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was assistance paid to employers under the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme assessable for tax purposes as an offset against wages paid. 
2 ) Are rebates paid under the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training Scheme to be tax-free. 
Does this mean that employers will be able to deduct as expenses, wages which are in fact paid by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many houses and apartments does the Australian Embassy rent in Jakarta. 
From whom does the Australian Embassy rent these houses and apartments in each case. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What firms arranged loans between the date of devaluation and the re-imposition of variable deposit requirements. 
2 ) What sum entered Australia between those 2 dates. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Was the position of Commonwealth Ombudsman advertised; if so, where. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did he tell me in answer to question No. 27  (Hansard.  22 March 1977, page 470) that the Order of St John in Australia is a private organisation, and that its awards are not part of the Government 's recognised honours system and hence have no official recognition. 
If so, why does the official style and title of the Governor-General (page ii of all  Hansards)  include 'Knight of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem '. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What Commonwealth public works are (a) under construction and (b) proposed in the Electoral Division of Prospect. 
What is the estimated (a) total cost of the projects, (b) cost of each individual project and (c) completion date of each project. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I understand that perishables will be exempt from the Government's freeze, even though perishables generally would benefit most by it. When the prices of fruit and vegetables increase, will exemption from the price freeze be granted to companies canning fruit and vegetables, wholesalers distributing them and retailers selling them? Will the freeze then apply only to the wages of the consumers? 
-As a democratic socialist all my thinking life, to me there are 2 depressing aspects of some who call themselves socialists. The first aspect is the chauvinistic nationalism which often leads to racism and opposition to other countries, not on the basis of their policies but on the basis that they are Americans or Indonesians or Japanese or Russians or Chinese or Arabs or Israelis. Having lived in Europe during the sweeping victories of national socialism in central Europe, I always shudder when I hear otherwise reasonable people add extreme nationalism to their socialism, and that can be expressed by carrying Eureka flags as much as by carrying any other flag. My second antipathy, even more directly related to the topic under discussion, is to those who can wax lyrical about preserving trees and beaches and species of animals but who have utter contempt and even hatred for people. As one reads the handouts from the Nil Net Migration people, any socialist ought to be shocked, yet they work under the cover of the Australian Conservation Foundation and can receive tax free gifts. That is quite wrong. They share Enoch Powell 's views, and they are entitled to do so, but I do not want taxpayers to subsidise them. 
May I deal very quickly with some of the pretentious nonsense often regurgitated by all sides in the immigration debate. The reference to factory fodder is used by anti-immigration people and is supposed to end all discussion. Of course, the Broken Hill Company, General MotorsHolden's, the Ford Motor Company and others supported immigration on the basis of obtaining unskilled labour as well as consumers. That cannot be a surprise to anybody. It is up to the unions and Labor governments to obtain the best possible conditions for workers, whether migrant or not; but that does not mean that the migrant workers, both male and female, would prefer not to come to this country rather than work in often unpleasant jobs. It should be made clear to potential migrants what the position is, what jobs are available, what the conditions are, how difficult it is to get suitable accommodation, and so on. Where governments have failed is in painting Australia as a land of middle class, happy, bronzed surfers and footballers. Let us tell people overseas what it is really like, how expensive it is to live here, about the droughts and the floods and the bushfires, the tax rates and the high cost of health insurance. Having told them that, let us not pretend paternalistically that we are keeping them out for their own sake. We are keeping them out for very selfish reasons. 
I should like to deal very quickly with diagram 1 on page 1 1 and diagram 3 on page 1 6 of the Green Paper. Those diagrams show clearly that during 1976 the Australian labour force increased by about 105 000 people. Yet those working increased by only about 300 during 1976 and those registered for employment increased by only a few thousand. That indicated that our unemployment figures are grossly under- estimated. Something approaching 90 000 people have been forced to withdraw from the labour force. So much for the alleged success of the Government's economic policy as illustrated in this Green Paper. 
I should now like to refer to my submission to the National Population Inquiry which was conducted about 6 years ago. I have done so before but I still stick to the points I made then and I should like to reiterate some of them. Whilst most thinking people must obviously support zero population growth or even minus population growth for the globe's population, this does not necessarily mean the same for Australia. Many of the ZPG arguments in Australia rest much more on value judgments about what makes for a tolerable life style than on what I would call pseudo-scientific predictions. To my mind growth- economic and population- tends to threaten traditional middle class values. It is felt to be disruptive and unpleasant precisely because it turns minority privileges into majority ones, because it means crowded roads, crowded beaches and fishing spots. 
It has overtones of a strong historical anxiety about being overwhelmed by Asia's population. The local ZPG movement collects the Asianhorde worriers. Recruitment in the schools is spreading, with ecological politics receiving an uncritical embrace- not given to any other political movement- probably because of the combination of scientific jargon and doomsday religion. There is the theme of apocalyptic catastrophethe threat of doom to come and the theme of millenial hope with the promise of human perfectability, zero population growth plus a repudiation of worldly goods. Everything would be all right then. We have the combination of complete pessimism that scientific technology could not be the saviour, with a completely unjustified optimistic faith in social technology. There is the assumption that mankind would carry out the social revolution demanded, that underdeveloped nations would not aim to reach our levels and that those in our society who already consider themselves close to subsistence level would join with the affluent in reducing their consumption. 
Basically they- the ZPG and zero economic growth advocates- make one of two alternative sets of assumptions: Firstly that, broadly speaking, the global distribution of income will remain in the future as it is now or secondly, that there will be a voluntary massive redistribution of income from the rich nations to the poor. Both seem very unrealistic. The advocates of global equilibrium throw up their hands in horror at the assumption that what they consider such minor political problems as the distribution of income among countries or within individual societies cannot be overcome under the threat of catastrophe. Suddenly it appears that although the technologists and scientists, according to those people, cannot solve the problems of increasing food yields by recycling raw materials or stopping pollution, politicians can square the circle and do the impossible by reconciling everyone to the social and economic consequences of global equilibrium. This, of course, is a nonsense assumption. 
I am combining my criticism of ZPG with an attack on the exponents of 'no more economic growth', as the ecological doomsday approach of, say, 'the limits to growth' by the Club of Rome is often their main argument. Recently they attacked the optimistic futurology of Herman Kahn and the Hudson Institute by saying that it is being sponsored by General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd, ignoring that the Club of Rome is sponsored by Fiat and by Volkswagen. Just as growth was once seen as the magic formula, so now non-growth replaces it; one oversimplification takes over from another in a depressing dialectic of slogans. The emphasis on repudiating worldly goods is, of course, drawing on a very deep well of Western tradition. And the final irony is perhaps that what is basically a religious impulse now feels obliged to reinforce itself with scientific predictions from a computer, the 20th century version of the apocalyptic vision. But in the past the choice was seen as a personal one. It was the individual who chose to join a mendicant order of friars or give part of his income to the poor. Now, however, the choice is presented as a communal one. It is society as a whole which is expected to take a pledge of voluntary poverty, or more accurately, to abstain from enriching itself still further. And the sanction is not the traditional one of retribution in the next life but ecological catastrophe in this one; present affluence and future squalor, the contemporary version of visiting the sins of the fathers on the sons. 
In dealing with the Australian position I would then argue that there is no absolute optimum figure for future population. It is a question of whether, for idealistic of materialistic reasons, we should allow to come here people who are convinced that for material or political reasons they would be much better off. Most would agree that refugees should be accepted. The admission of others should, to my mind, only be limited by, firstly, the active desire of people to come here, with no positive propaganda on our pan and, secondly, our ability to provide them with jobs, accommodation and services. I have a gut feeling that we are not entitled to deny a migrant entry if he feels that it is in his interest, unless we have a precise reason for doing so. On the question of the origin of migrants, I submit that many of those who claim that non-Europeans should be admitted are just as racially prejudiced as those they criticise. Their argument often goes: Why should we not admit, for example, a doctor from Hong Kong, an Asian English-speaking professional when we admit illiterate peasants from the Mediterranean area? I emphasise the words Mediterranean area' and 'illiterate '. Why do not those people compare such a migrant with the Dutch peasant, an Irish farmer or an English farmer? They are being just as racist as the people they criticise. 
My view on the best possible size for Australia's population is that there is no simple answer. Over-simplification would only produce an answer unfit as a guide for action. I would also like to criticise more specifically some of the opponents of immigration. They are basically the same people who opposed immigration ever since it became fashionable to do so. A  Mr Sharp  in Sydney was one of the leaders of that group. I suppose that ever since large scale immigration started its opponents have argued that in periods of full employment the cost of basic services required for migrants- the so-called build-up of a social infrastructure- was so great as to use up our very limited resources. We were told that we could not afford to let migrants come into Australia because too many of our people were working just to provide the infrastructure. We were told also that Australia could not expand at the rate it ought to be able to expand because we were bringing in too many migrants and that the infrastructure cost and the labour cost were too great. Such people in most cases are still opponents of the immigration and now argue the opposite, namely, that immigration will cause unemployment. I do not know the correct answer but both arguments cannot be true. 

 Mr Wilson from the University of Sydney Economics Department was appointed during the period of the McMahon Government, I think, to prepare an economic cost benefit analysis on this subject. It is a pity that that cost benefit analysis has not been published. It is obvious that it is a very difficult cost benefit analysis but I wish that we would at least get a paper on it so that we could argue the pros and cons involved instead of just accepting the proposition that migrams coming into Australia cause unemployment. Let me summarise my position as far as migrants are concerned. I was a migrant. I do not think we should chase migrants to come to Australia. That is where I disagree with the Minister when he goes overseas. We should be more reasonable and lenient in admitting those who want to come to this country. It has often been my argument that it is ridiculous for us to sponsor film showing happy Australians lying on the beaches and sunbaking, yachting and doing all sorts of things, and spreading that image overseas, giving people a false impression of what the average person should expect when coming to Australia. Why not show people the unpleasant things about life in Australia? If they are still prepared to come after seeing the unpleasant things, probably they would make better migrants. Certainly, they would not be disappointed and there would be less reason for them to go home. The cost to us when they finally leave Australia would therefore be less. 
Let me conclude by appealing to my fellow members of the Labor movement not to forget that worthwhile socialism is an international movement. Wherever it has become highly nationalistic, it has become authoritarian and, therefore, to me the very antithesis of socialism. Similarly, if socialism is about anything, it is about people as individuals and we must always consider them as being more important than trees or private profit. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are payments of a recurring nature under Workers' Compensation and 3rd Party legislation taxable. 
Are lump-sum payments under Workers' Compensation and 3rd Party legislation tax-free. 
Is it a fact that interim periodic payments often are deducted from the final capital lump-sum settlement. 
Why is tax paid on these periodic payments not finally recoverable. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: (1)HashenotedTable12,appearingonpage41ofthe Second Annual Report of the Health Insurance Commission, which indicates that, for the Australian Capital Territory, the average benefit for service paid for operations was $44.90 and for assistance at operations $42. 
If so, why is there such a relatively small difference compared with the States. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Will he provide details of the Health Program Grant payments by the Health Insurance Commission which amounted to over $7m in 1975-76. 
Originally price rises may well have been connected with wage rises, but for the last 2 years since the introduction of indexation we have had price rises being followed by wage rises. It is terribly simple for this Government to stop wage rises if it wants to do so. All it has to do is not have any price rises for one quarter. There will be then no increase in the consumer price index and therefore there will be no wage rises under indexation. There will be no need to get any agreement from the unions because the unions have accepted indexation. It is a terribly simple solution but the Government does not want to implement it. 
My aim tonight really is to seek the incorporation in  Hansard  of a table which I am sure would be of interest to all honourable members. My reason for rising is really based upon the Indian election results. I do not intend to comment on whether the group of parties that won the election is any better than the Congress Party that was in power before the election. I do not know enough about Indian politics to enable me to do so. The only thing that I think is important about the Indian election result as far as we in this Parliament are concerned is that for some reason or other many people claim that the citizens in the poorer countries- in the undeveloped nationsare interested only in food and not in freedom. The Indian elections have quite clearly shown that people who are given the choice are interested in freedom. They are quite clearly interested in freedom if they are given that choice. If honourable members were to look at the particular electorate represented by the Minister of Justice in the previous Government, who introduced the legislation which restricted freedom under the previous Government, although admittedly only temporarily, they would find that he was defeated by a lawyer in exile, who was unable to campaign, who had to leave the country but yet received an overwhelming majority in the election. To me that showed quite clearly that the Indian people, as most other people in the world will do, will vote for freedom if they have the choice. Obviously they want food, but they also want freedom. That does not apply only to India. I ask for leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197704203_65_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704203_65_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="104131197704203_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

Notes to the Table 
The scales use the numbers 1-7, with 1 comparatively offering the highest level of political or civil rights, and 7 the lowest. A plus or minus following a rating indicates an improvement or decline in the rating since the last survey. A rating marked with a period (o ) has been changed since the last survey due to revaluation by the author. This does not imply any change in the country. For further information on the scale and survey see  Freedom at Issue,  Jan.-Feb. 1 973 page 2ff. 
A free state is designated by F, a partly free state by PF. and a not free state by NF 
A positive outlook for freedom is indicated by a plus sign, a negative outlook, by a minus, and relative stability of ratings by a zero. The outlook for freedom is based on the problems the country is facing, the way the government and people are reacting to these problems, and the longer run political traditions of the society. A judgment of outlook may also reflect an imminent change, such as the expected adoption of a meaningful new constitution. 
The name of Dahomey has been changed to Benin. Cambodia is now officially Kampachea 
-The table was produced by what is called Freedom House, which since 1952 has been a non-partisan and non-government organisation in New York. It has produced a table in which it has given nations points for political rights, civil rights and a general status of freedom of outlook. I hope that honourable members will have a look at it and be as depressed as I have been by the large number of countries which have no freedom. There have been recent changes but they have not all been for the better. The worst change, of course, has been in Thailand, which has lost its freedom. There have been gains recently in Portugal because it has joined the free nations. I think that Sri Lanka has improved its freedom. Other countries, such as Spain and Egypt, have improved their status as far as freedom is concerned. Obviously India also did so, even under the previous Government when it called an election. Nonetheless the summary from Freedom House placed 43.9 per cent of the world's population in the category of not-free countries and 36.4 per cent of the tOtal population in the category of partly free countries. Only 19.6 per cent of the total world's population are considered to be free citizens. Let us look at that and consider it when we talk about freedom in other countries. 
-I take this opportunity tonight to agree basically with one person and one group with whom I normally do not agree. The person is the temporary honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who, in an article in the April issue of  Quadrant,  signed 'Michael Baume', when talking about the state of the economy in Australia at the present time and what the Government has done, said amongst other things: 
The average middle-income earner is probably taking home a slightly smaller proportion of his pay than under Whitlam. 
Later he said: 
And on top of it all, when tax has never been higher, Canberra keeps insisting that it has handed out a $ 1 ,000m tax cut through tax indexation to the inflation-hit taxpayer. It is hard to convince anyone that they have had a tax cut when their pay packets tell them clearly that income taxes and levies collected this year are rising at a faster rate than wages. 
I congratulate the honourable member for his perceptiveness although I do not agree with much else that is in the article. 
It is a bit long, I think. One point in the article that I would like to challenge is that the honourable gentleman has not done his homework on the question of tax deductions and tax rebates with respect to children. He claims that this Government in effect abolished tax deductions for dependent children. This was, in fact, done under Hayden when tax rebates were introduced. The second group I would like to congratulate is the Institute of Public Affairs. There is a very impressive list of large businesses associated with this body. In its March issue, speaking about the economy and the Government, it says, amongst other things: 
But notwithstanding its unswerving adherence to textbook orthodoxy, the harsh fact remains that it has not put the runs on the board. In 1976 the actual rate of inflation at 14.5 per cent has turned out to be marginally greater than in 1975. The Government is reluctant to face up to this unpleasant reality; it keeps harping on the underlying rate of inflation, comparing it favourably with the rate under the Labor Government. Even from the standpoint of political point-scoring, this is to make a foolish mistake. The Australian people are not concerned with fine statistical technicalities; they are interested only in the results. All they are worrying about is the horrifying figure of 6 per cent for the last quarter- a higher figure than in any quarter since the Korean inflation of the early 1 950s. The Government should forget about politics. It should be concentrating its entire energies on the future, instead of harking back to the past. 
Later, it says: 
The 6 per cent is frightening not only in itself but for what it portends. Some estimates suggest that for the three quarters to June this year prices could rise by some 14 per cent in the absence of any wage increases at all. 
This is emphasised in the editorial. It goes on to say: 
This could spell desperate trouble for the Government toward the end of 1977. It would certainly spell desperate trouble for the economy: among other things, the near certainty of another devaluation, and thus a further push to inflation. 
Later on: 
If the Government has, on the whole, acted wisely and courageously, why has it failed to achieve results in its major policy objective, the slowing down of inflation? 
Its plans have clearly been upset by the reconstruction of Medibank and will soon be further frustrated by the November devaluation. 
It goes on: ... in retrospect the changes to Medibank must be adjudged a serious blunder. The restructuring of Health Insurance should clearly have waited until inflation was on the way to being defeated and until the economy was back on the highway of growth. The Government was overambitious; it should have devoted all its energies to the immediate and vital tasks. Medibank could have waited; it was not an urgent priority. 
I completely agree with the editorial. It exposes clearly just what is wrong with the ridiculous economic thinking- that is an exaggeration; it should not be called economic thinking- on the part of this Government. The prejudices of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are enforced no matter what are the economic consequences. He has always believed in devaluation because basically he is a peasant farmer and he feels that the only way we can get anywhere in Australia is by flogging as much wool overseas as we can. He has not thought the matter through. I am glad that the honourable member for Macarthur and the Institute of Public Affairs have taken the Government up and exposed its ridiculous economic policies. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. Is the Minister aware that a select committee of the New South Wales Parliament has recommended that gaol sentences be abolished for the use of or possession of cannabis, more commonly known as marihuana? Is it a fact that in the Australian Capital Territory the maximum penalty for the use of or the possession of less than 25 grams of cannabis is a fine of $100? Is he aware of any problems arising from the absence of gaol penalties for this offence in the Australian Capital Territory? Finally, has he received any complaints from the Festival of Light? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many persons were receiving domiciliary nursing care benefits in each State and Territory at the latest date for which the information is available. 
Are figures available for domiciliary nursing care benefit payments on the basis of (i) postcodes, (ii) electoral divisions and ( iii ) any other smaller areas than States. 
3 ) Is there any evidence that the incidence of domiciliary nursing care benefit payments varies with the availability of domiciliary nurses rather than necessity. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister and remind him of his reply to my question 15 days ago when he said that there were no exceptions to the price freeze. Does this apply to the price of shares? If so, will he notify the Australian stock exchanges and the investing public that share prices between now and midJuly can stay only at their early April levels or go down? If not, how does this situation differ from that of perishables and other commodities sold, in effect, by auction and to a large extent reflecting supply and demand? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Are there residential restrictions imposed on attendance at Australian Capital Territory Health Centres. 
If so, does this result in some residents of the Australian Capital Territory being prevented from attending any of the Health Centres; if so, what is the justification for this. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Who are the bankers for Medibank Private? 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Did the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation provide approximately $20m to finance the sale of Australian goods to Indonesia last year, as reported in the  Canberra Times of 25  June 1976. 
Did the Managing Director of the Corporation describe the line of credit as the largest single line of project credit ever arranged by the Corporation for the export of Australian capital goods and services. 
Which were the main Australian companies that sold goods financed by the loan. 
Can he say whether the United States Export-Import Bank requires disclaimers that bribes have not been paid by contractors before loans are extended. 
Does the Corporation require disclaimers that bribes have not been paid by contractors before loans are extended. 
Does the Corporation know of (a) any bribes or similar irregularities that were paid or carried out or (b) allegations of bribes or similar irregularities that were paid or carried out, in connection with the $20m loan to finance the sale of Australian goods to Indonesia last year. 
What other loans, and to which companies, has the Corporation made to finance the sale of Australian goods to Indonesia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is there an Act corresponding to the New South Wales Venereal Diseases Act in force in (a) the Australian Capital Territory and (b) the Northern Territory. 
Is there any provision forcing doctors to inform parents, in case of infection of children below a certain age; if so, what is the age. 
Has his attention been drawn to legislation before the N.S.W. Parliament reducing the age to 16 years and removing the absolute obligation on doctors. 
If so, and if appropriate, will he introduce similar amendments in the Territories. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the New Year address by Kim II Sung of North Korea published as an advertisement in the  National Times  of 14- 1 9 March 1977. 
If so, does Kim II Sung claim that all is well with the North Korean economy. 
Does the North Korean Government owe any money to Australian companies for goods or services supplied. 
If so, what is the amount owing. 
What steps has the Australian Government taken to obtain payment of these debts. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
1 ) What is the maximum penalty for use of, or possession of, less than 25 grams of cannabis under the Public Health (Prohibited Drugs) Ordinance 1957. 
How many persons in the Australian Capital Territory were (a) charged with and (b) convicted of the use of, or possession of, less than 25 grams of cannabis in each year since 1965. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) What proportion of the Australian population is now covered by (a) Medibank, (b) Medibank Private and (c) other private medical and hospital benefit funds. 
Are these proportions available for each State and Territory. If so, what are they. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it true, as reported, that the Medibank computer rejects claims for item 8530, mam.maplasty augmentation prosthetic, in the case of males who wish to undergo sex change? Is this a permanent refusal to pay or is it only a refusal to pay until the fact is established that such an admittedly very rare operation was really performed? Does the Minister know whether the other funds take a similar line? Are there any other medical services for which refunds are refused on what appear to be moral grounds? Does the Minister feel that it is the function of the Government, the Health Insurance Commission or the funds to make moral judgments on what legal operations should or should not be performed with the consent of or at the request of patients? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March, 1977: 
What is the estimated number of refugees from (a) Vietnam (b) Cambodia (c) Laos (d) East Timor (e) Lebanon (f) Israel (g) Cyprus (h) Malaysia (i) Singapore (j) South Africa and (k) Chile. 
How many refugees from each of these countries have been admitted to Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) What was the total cost to the Australian Government of the recent visit by The Queen to the Australian Capital Territory. 
Can he provide details of the cost of the various functions such as (a) theOpening of Parliament; (b)thereception at Parliament House on the evening of 8 March 1977, (c) the investiture, and so on. 
In each case, what was the proportion spent on alcoholic drinks and their dispensing. 
-This is a sort of maiden speech from this position for me. I should like firstly to thank my colleagues on this side of the House for putting me on the front bench and I should like to pay tribute to the previous spokesman on health from our side. Like him, I shall try to be rational in my approach to the topic. I think that in a democratic system the Opposition has an obligation to try to improve the running of government. Hopefully when we come up with rational arguments it is up to the Government to take them into consideration, at least to look at them and possibly to take some notice of them if they are considered to be worth while. 
The Health Insurance Amendment Bill deals with a number of points but the main one arises from the extra expenditure on pathology services which has become very noticeable in the last few years. I think it is reasonable to say that it is not due to changes in the health insurance set up in this country following the establishment of Medibank. It is really based on technological changes in medicine, especially pathology. The same sort of thing is likely to occur in other medical specialised areas. The main change in pathology was the invention and widespread distribution of what is called the multi-channel analyser. Instead of having to employ qualified people to perform many tests on the blood, urine or other substances of the human body an analyser was invented which could perform 12 or 20 tests simultaneously. A large capital investment was involved for the people who brought those multi-channel analysers. Obviously the people who bought them wanted to get the capital investment back. They wanted to show a profit on it if at all possible. That occurred not only in private enterprise medicine, but also, to some extent, in hospitals and similar institutions. 
In answer to a question asked yesterday by my colleague, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  showed that he was aware that similar problems were likely to arise in radiology where computerised axial tomogram scanners are coming into use. Their cost is somewhere between $500,000 and $750,000. The people who buy them will obviously try to show a profit on them. They will be looking for people to scan. Articles in the United States refer to CAT fever, that is, computerised axial tomograms, spreading in the medical profession in some of the American States. Obviously, we have to be aware of this from the point of view of any damage it may cause to patients and from the cost point of view as much of the expenditure would be paid for by the Commonwealth Government. Another likely contender in the technology field for the taxpayers' money is ultra sound equipment which is now being introduced. It can do all kinds of tests on human beings. I assume that the machinery will be quite expensive. As long as we have the fee for service system the refunds will be significant. 
I predict that within a reasonably short time there will be further amendments to the Health Insurance Act to deal with other aspects of medicine which have been affected by new technology. 
The reason the Government became alarmed is that expenditure for pathology has increased from $22m in the half year ended 1974 to $5 3m in the latest half year for which we have figures. I am not sure whether the figures are completely comparable but, in any case, they show a great increase. The Government set up a working party which made certain recommendations. To a large extent this amending legislation is designed to bring about changes recommended by the pathology services working party. The Opposition does not oppose the contents of the Bill and certainly supports very strongly its aim. We have some reservations about some aspects of the legislation, as to how effective it will be and whether it is the most appropriate way of dealing with the problem. The Government in trying to deal with the problem has opted for the abolition of bulk billing for pathology services for all except eligible pensioners and their dependants. The Minister in his second reading speech did not seem completely confident that this legislation will make a great difference, and I have reservations. I think there would be a temptation for pathologists to carry out unnecessary tests when the patient is not aware that the tests are being carried out. In regard to bulk billing the Minister said: 
Moreover, few patients are able to sign, as they are supposed to do, the bulk-billing form after the pathology services have been performed, and certify that the services itemised on the claim form have been performed. 
What will be the change after 1 August 1977? The change will be that following the examination of a blood specimen the patient, with the exception of the pensioner and his dependants, will receive an account from the pathologist on which there will be a large number of item numbers and a total figure- let us say it is $75. Obviously, the patient when he then signs the form applying for the refund from Medibank or any of the health funds really does not know any more as to whether the tests were necessary or whether they were really performed. If the tests were not really performed, we are dealing with fraud. Two separate issues are involved. There is the possibility of fraud if it could be shown- I am not aware of any cases- that pathologists have claimed for services which were never performed. If that is the case, obviously the people concerned ought to be charged with attempting to defraud the Government or the health fund. 
There is a second and just as important point in relation to the total amount of money involved, and that is the performance of unnecessary tests. The more tests a pathologist performs on a particular specimen, the greater his income and the larger his actual net profit. Let us not forget that pathology services are ordered by other doctors. Generally the patient does not appear at the pathologist and say: 'I should like to have a series of liver function tests'. He goes to his general practitioner or specialist and the doctor orders a certain number of tests. That is where the difficulty arises. There have been allegations, as we all know, of money passing between some people providing private pathology services and the doctor ordering the services, encouraging him to order unnecessary services. The legislation deals with this practice. It actually prohibits it and imposes substantial penalties. I am not sure whether increasing the penalty from a gaol sentence of 6 months to one of 5 years makes much difference. If people are prepared to go to gaol for 6 months I do not suppose going to gaol for 5 years makes that much difference especially to professional people who, in addition, lose their registration. Maybe there is some evidence showing that increasing the maximum penalty will make a great difference in stopping doctors from being dishonest, but I am not aware of it. 
Let us now consider the sorts of screening tests which have been carried out which many of us regard as unnecessary. The main thing is, as the Minister pointed out, that in many cases there is no indication that the patient is not well. We are dealing with healthy people. There have been reports of health studios being financed or owned by medical practitioners who also provide pathology services. People enrol in such health studios and, instead of having to pay for the services available at the studios with their own money, they are charged less because the owners of the health studios also perform all kinds of what we would consider to be unnecessary tests on the people concerned. The money for those tests is being paid by Medibank, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, the Hospital Contribution Fund or whichever fund operates in a particular State. 
-Yes, I am referring to health studios. I cannot see clearly the benefit to any person who organises treatment unless there is a kick-back. For example, tests are allegedly being performed on whole footfall teams and whole clubs, including their supporters. Services, marginal to the purposes for which the studios were established are provided also. I know that the Minister came to a health studio in Parramatta when it was established. I wrote to him expressing some reservations. He agreed with my reservations. The sorts of services which are provided -for example, a complete check-up- are provided for apparently healthy people. Statistically it has been found that one in fifteen of these healthy people has a positive test. By 'positive', I means that something abnormal is found in the test. Only a small proportion of that number has a condition which can be treated. So, we finish up with approximately one or two in one hundred who may have some complaint which can be treated. I cannot completely argue to my own satifaction that, if the test were to pick up some condition in somebody and something could really be done for that person, even if it is one case in 100, the expense could not be justified. Perhaps the money to carry out the tests has been well spent. I am not sure in my own mind. It is a question of how much one values human life and the ability to live a pleasant life if one is treated for something that may later come against one if the condition were not treated. I think it almost becomes a philosophical argument. We know what kind of money is involved but we do not know what kind of unpleasant things would happen to people whose high cholesterol levels, triglycerides or whatever it may be have not been picked up earlier. In any case, I am not sure that any of the things we are proposing to do under this legislation will prevent this. It may be suggested to us by a doctor, a friend or anybody else that we go to one of the routine checking organisations for a complete overhaul, including all the pathology and radiology tests, even though there were nothing wrong with us, and that those tests finally could cost us either nothing or $5. We would get an account which we would then have to render to Medibank or whatever our health organisation was. I am not sure that there is any great difference between that and bulk billing or that the abolition of bulk billing will prevent that practice. It will obviously make people more aware of what amount of money is involved, but I am not sure just what proportion of our population really wants to save the Government or a health fund money. How many of us would say: 'I am not going to have these tests costing $120 because that is what it will cost the Government. It is a bit rough that I should be costing the Government $120.'? I think that the people who would refuse the tests on that basis would probably be fairly exceptional people in our community. 
What I should like to argue also on the question of bulk billing is that we have only a gut feeling that bulk billing in fact increases the use of pathology services. It should have been possible to get statistics in relation to this. As honourable gentlemen probably know, Medibank, Medibank Private and, as far as I know, the HBA in Victoria are the only insurance funds which provide for bulk billing. Therefore, we have a group of people insured with funds which provide bulk billing. We have a large number of people in the community- I am not sure of the figure, but it is something approaching SO per cent- who are not covered by funds which provide for bulk billing. It therefore should be possible to compare the figures as to the number of pathology services used by people belonging to non-bulk billing organisations and the number of pathology services used by others. We have not those figures. I understand that the figures should have been available from the funds in April. They have not become available. I understand from the Minister that they may not be available for some months. 
As the Minister says, until about August. It is a pity that we have not before us the figures which can clearly demonstrate the facts in relation to carrying out this sort of exercise which is quite expensive for Medibank. This means that a large number of extra people have to be employed. An administrative cost of the order of $ 1 m or more is involved. When the estimate from a government department is $lm, it means that the figure will probably be $2m. But we do not have figures supporting the charge. 
I think there are many debatable aspects about doing tests, even when people are admitted to hospital. For example, many tests in teaching hospitals are carried out not because they are terribly important for the patient, but because this is best from the students' point of view; the students should have a complete knowledge of all patients' biochemistry, blood count and so on, even though those facts may not be relevant as far as the treatment of the patient is concerned. Therefore, a large number of tests are carried out in hospitals, not to the benefit of the patient but for the training of students. I suppose that is one of the aspects we also have to be concerned about. It is because these sorts of tests are carried out in hospitals that I should like to devote just a few minutes to the other change that has been introduced in this legislation, that is, the payment of fee for service for pathology work, performed in public hospitals, basically by salaried staff in the hospitals. There has been a suggestion that agreement should be reached between State Governments, the Federal Government and the pathologists in the hospitals concerned as to what proportion of the money received for the pathology services performed in each hospital should go to the pathologist and what proportion should go to the hospital. 
Yes, I understand that. But I have some reservations. We are dealing with a person employed by a public hospital. I do not like criticising salaried doctors. We are dealing with people who are on a salary. All the facilities are provided by the hospital. The staff carrying out the tests is provided by the hospital. How can we really justify that that person, on top of his salary, should get also 20 per cent, 30 per cent or 40 per cent or whatever it may be of the money collected from Medibank? After all, even if the pathologist does the test himself- and in most cases he will not be doing the test himself- he is doing it in time which is being paid for as part of his salary at the hospital. I can see great difficulties arising and more attempts to perform unnecessary tests on a captive population, because, let us face it, in a hospital the patient is a captive. He does not really get a choice whether he wants to have a test performed on him. That is why I have some reservations about that point. At the same time, I can see the argument on the part of the pathologists. Basically, they would like to get a piece of the action too. Private pathologists are making a lot of money. If we do not offer an incentive to the pathologists employed on salaries in public hospitals, they will leave the public hospital, set up a pathology service opposite the hospital and perform the tests there. I think that it is a great pity that some other solution cannot be found which does not depend on fee for service. 
One of the other reservations that I have about this legislation concerns the question of privacy. We will be now insisting under this legislation on both the provider of the pathology services and the referring doctor keeping a record of basically the reason why the pathology service has been performed. I can see no objection to that aspect of it, but I am not really happy about the proposition in the legislation whereby, providing an officer of the Department of Health claims on oath that there is reasonable suspicion, for example, the referring doctor is receiving some benefit out of referring patients, his place can be raided and all kinds of material can be obtained. I have reservations about that sort of thing. 
I am not an expert on the law and I do not know whether this provision applies in many similar sorts of situations, but I think we have to be particularly careful as far as medical privacy is concerned that patients do not feel that their histories and records can come into the possession of governmental organisations and can be used for the purposes of prosecutions. Many people consider their illnesses or complaints to be a highly private problem which they would feel very loath to have exposed in a court of law as part of the evidence by the Government against an offending medical practitioner to have their private complaints to the doctor aired in a court of law. I am not referring to a complaint that they have against a doctor; I am referring to the complaint that was the reason for their visiting the doctor. I am surprised in a way that there has been no objection from the Australian Medical Association and other medical organisations on this point. I am not sure whether they have seen the legislation. The legislation was introduced only towards the end of last week, but I am really surprised that there have been no objections on the part of the medical organisations about this matter. 
I would like to recommend very strongly one feature of the legislation that has nothing to do with the matters in the rest of the legislation; that is, the provision for health program grants. Clauses 13 to 18 broaden the scope and purpose for which health program grants may be given. I think it is important that further attempts be made to develop and to encourage health maintenance organisations. None has been set up in Australia so far. I think it would be difficult to set up such organisations in Australia compared with the United States of America. But I think it is important from the point of view of both the patient and the public purse for those of us who are concerned about health care delivery to look at some alternatives to the present methods of health care delivery and the health maintenance organisations are obviously one of those alternatives. I think that an important function for the Government to carry out is to encourage them to start up in Australia so that we can look at them in operation. 
Additionally money will be made available to develop and evaluate new and, hopefully, improved health care delivery systems. Again I think it is important not only to develop them in the first instance but also to evaluate just what are the benefits and whether they are real benefits. I am one of those fairly sceptical people who would like to see some evaluation. I am lucky in that my electorate is possibly the only electorate in Australia in which there is a community health service that, amongst other things, attaches one or two trained community nurses to every primary school in the electorate. The aim of doing so is to try to prevent certain conditions from arising, to pick up disabilities in children and their families early in the piece and to save money in the long run on health costs. It should be easy to do that because costs in teaching hospitals in New South Wales, for example, are now approaching $1,000 a week for each bed. That is a fantastic figure. The cost in the ordinary hospitals is of the order of $ 100 a day or $700 a week. 
That works out at $910 a week. A nurse or sister has only to keep one patient out of hospital all the time and it would be well worth doing because obviously the cost of providing that nurse or sister would not anywhere near approach $910 a week. At the same time we have to evaluate the matter. I keep fairly close contact with the community nurses in my area because I am interested in their work and I know that some of their work in a sense is unnecessary in that there are other schemes in operation that in effect prevent them from doing the sort of thing that they ought to be doing. They are being used to make it possible for pensioners to claim domiciliary nursing benefits. As honourable members know, there is a scheme whereby a person over a certain age who has 2 nursing visits a week at home can get an extra $ 14 a week in his pension. To qualify for this additional benefit a person has to have 2 nursing visits a week, which are not easy to obtain. I have been told by some of the nurses in my area that it has been calculated that the cost of a visit is something like $20. So there is a cost to the State Government or the community health scheme of something like $40 to enable the Commonwealth Government to pay $14 a week to somebody. 
The people who make those nursing visits are being used to put drops into people 's eyes and to do all kinds of things that do not really require nursing assistance. The only reason why nurses are being called in to do that work is because unless a person has the signature of a nurse saying that she calls twice a week that person cannot collect the extra $14 a week. So that person's daughter rings up and insists that a trained nurse come in and put drops into that person's eyes. I think that is a completely irrational way of using the ability of the trained personnel and is a completely uneconomic way of approaching the matter. Having said that, I realise that if we do not have some restrictions on the domiciliary nursing benefits the net result would be that every smart pensioner would claim an extra $ 1 4 a week in his pension We may be prepared to pay an extra 14 a week in pensions, but I do not think it should be done on the basis that some pensioners are smarter than others. I think it should be done on a more rational basis. I conclude by commending the basic aim of the legislation and warning the Minister for Health that it will not necessarily stop all the abuses and that the abuses are likely to spread to other aspects of medicine, especially where the technology is further developed. 
-I shall not detain the House for long. I should like to make just 2 points. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  gave an example which proved to be exactly the opposite to what he was trying to prove. He proved the point that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  was making. He referred to a person who apparently had a superficial staphylococcal infection and had to come back for repeated visits which cost the health fund or Medibank a considerable amount of money. This is exactly the sort of condition which it could reasonably and rationally be argued should have been sent for a pathology test to identify the organism causing the infection and its sensitivity so as to find out what antibiotic should have been given to that person. The patient would have been saved all those visits. That is why it is important to distinguish whether a doctor is ordering tests on people who are sick and have a condition or whether he is just ordering screening tests on apparently healthy people. I think that screening tests can be justified. I agree with the Minister on that point. We have to be conscious of the fact that obviously we will get a much poorer return if we screen 100 people who are well than if we screen 100 people who are sick. How will the Minister decide what cases he will refer to the committees of inquiry? Will they be cases connected only with Medibank or with other health funds? 
In both cases. That is important. Otherwise, because of the changes to Medibank last year, a much bigger proportion of people will be covered by Medibank in certain areas because it is a disadvantage to belong to Medibank for those on higher incomes whilst it is an advantage to belong to Medibank for those on lower incomes. Therefore, if the Government was to work out the number of accounts rendered on Medibank for pathology services for, say, 1000 people living in a particular area, it would get a completely unreasonable picture. 
In my early days of practising medicine I joined a practice with a number of partners. I had to do the relatively difficult work of going out to see the sick patients in the home because that was the job of the junior partner. I was investigated by a member of the Department of Health because the cost of my prescriptions was 25 per cent or 35 per cent higher for the general area than were those of the other doctors in my practice. They were not aware- when I explained to them they accepted my statementthat I was ordering antibiotics at that time because I was seeing people who were too sick to come to the surgery. Obviously, they received more active and expensive treatment than people who were seen in the surgery for more routine examinations. It is important to remember that we do not want to embarrass doctors into a position where they will not order necessary tests because they are worried about being investigated. Perhaps it is more unpleasant to be investigated if one has a completely clear conscience than if one has a guilty conscience. I am not quite sure which is worse. We do not want to stop doctors behaving in the correct manner by the threat of investigation. Investigation ought to be used in a sparing manner and only when we are fairly sure that somebody is not working according to the general conditions laid down under this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Opposition welcomes the changes introduced in the Bill presented to the House late last week. It is important as far as the Department of Veterans' Affairs is concerned, and in respect of the method of accepting conditions, that justice must not only be done but must also appear to be done. I believe that that is one of the most important points in the administration of the Department. It was one of the reasons why the Labor Government introduced the giving of what are now called 'reasons for  decision  '. It was important to show the applicant why a certain decision was made and to help him contest that decision rather than have the original method prevail where the applicant received just a letter saying, 'I am sorry; we have reviewed the case completely but the original decision stands', of whatever the result may have been. 
Last week my Party's welfare committee had a lengthy and very interesting discussion with  Mr Justice  Toose and  Mr Kingsland,  who is Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs.  Mr Justice  Toose carried out the independent inquiry into the repatriation system which concluded in June 1975. The issue raised by  Mr Justice  Toose which is relevant to the legislation before us is the lack of uniformity in the presentation of cases and in the action of the repatriation boards. What  Mr Justice  Toose reported and what those of us who have been interested in repatriation for some time as a result of helping constituents or ex-members have been aware of is that some deserving ex-members do not get benefits and do not have certain conditions accepted while the cases of others whose conditions have been accepted and who possibly get pensions may not be as deserving or as clear cut. I think it is bad when legislation does not make it obvious to an ex-member why he does not receive benefits which another ex-member is receiving. It is easy to make decisions on these matters soon after discharge, and we are dealing mainly with people who served in the Second World War, but it is much more difficult some 30 years later to connect a disability with service, especially if the ex-member has not received much treatment in the intervening time or has not received treatment through the Department and then decides, having reached a certain age, that he would Uke to have his condition or conditions accepted and possibly receive a pension. 
Even though my Party introduced the practice of giving reasons for decisions, I noted when we met  Mr Justice  Toose last week that some of the people on the boards who give these decisions are not exactly highly trained to make the decisions or to give reasons for them. It reminded me of a case in which I am involved. I am helping a widow who, following the death of her husband, has not been accepted as a war widow. She does not live in my electorate but when I was in medical practice before entering Parliament her husband was a patient of mine. I have looked at his file and wish to refer to some of the points from it because I think they are relevant and hopefully will draw the Minister's attention to the case.  Her  appeal was heard on 26 May and I hope she has been successful. I have taken a lot of trouble in this case. I have certain expertise in these matters and had the right as his medical practitioner to look at his medical files which in other cases would not be made available. I hope that the point I am making will be treated seriously by the Department and the boards. 
To summarise his condition, he had an accepted disability- an anxiety state- and died some years ago, basically from a stroke or a cerebral haemorrhage which was caused by hypertension. The aim of the exercise on behalf of his widow is to connect the anxiety state with hypertension which has been accepted as the cause of death. In the reasons for decision, the people who rejected the applications had this to say: 
The Commission having considered all the evidence notes that there is no conflict of medical opinion on the point that the member's accepted disability may have aggravated his hypertension. 
In other words, his anxiety state aggravated his hypertension. They then went on to make an important point which I am sure is wrong and  Mr Justice  Toose, when I showed it to him, agreed with me. They said: 
However, this relationship does not constitute ground for relating the member's death to his war service. Aggravation by an accepted disability or by the treatment for an accepted disability is not the same thing as aggravation by the conditions of war service and it is the latter which the law provides as ground for granting a war pension. 
This is obviously not correct because, if taken to its logical or illogical extreme, it means the wife of that a person who, for example, underwent a surgical operation for an accepted disability and died during that surgical operation would not be able to claim that she was a war widow because her husband had not died from his accepted disability but from treatment for his accepted disability. The reason I have made that point is that I argued on 2 points in favour of having that exmember's condition accepted. One point was that his anxiety state aggravated his hypertensionand this is accepted- and the second point was that it is generally accepted that the drug amitryptyline which he was given as treatment for his anxiety state can cause sudden hypertension. So there were 2 obvious reasons for that person's death. One was that his condition aggravated the hypertension and caused death and the other was that the treatment for his condition caused his death. The Repatriation Commission in its reasons for decision said that neither reason complied with the law relating to the granting of war pensions. I was pleased when I showed the reasons for decision to  Mr Justice  Toose and  Mr Kingsland  that they did not agree with them. The Commission in its reasons for decision continued: 
Moreover,  Dr Klugman  does not say that hypertension was caused by anxiety state but says that it could have been precipitated by it. This implies to the Commission that the cause of hypertension was something other than anxiety state, which was merely a precipitating factor and that hypertension would have occurred in this case irrespective of whether the member had had anxiety state. 
This does not seem to be a logical reason for knocking back the application. I have raised this case with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack),  having been reminded of it by the unfortunate death of  Senator Greenwood  and the later decision by a government instrumentality- I am not sure which instrumentality it was- to accept the proposition that stress had caused or aggravated hypertension and that, therefore, his widow was entitled to certain benefits. I am not querying for one minute that  Senator Greenwood's  widow was entitled to those benefits. What I am querying is that the wife of this ex-member whose case I have outlined is not entitled to a benefit. 
The important point to remember relative to this legislation is that not only are ex-members not clear in their minds about the legal position but also some of the boards are not clear about it and certainly do not seem to be clear about it when giving reasons. It is a question of untrained people presenting the cases in many instances with the cases being presented inadequately, as  Mr Justice  Toose pointed out. He said that they were presented inadequately in a proportion of cases. I am not saying that it is necessary to have special training in order to present a case. If the case is clear cut obviously there is no need for the person presenting it to have special training, but legal and /or medical training would certainly be helpful in many cases. 
If one is a sort of medical detective it certainly helps when one gets hold of the file of the case, which is often 100 pages thick. I enjoy doing this. I have a look at the file and I can relate the condition a person has at present with some episode during his Service life. However, it is unfair that people have to rely on the possibility of a person with medical training being prepared to spend a considerable amount of time going through files. I think it is necessary in some ways to ensure that the cases are adequately prepared. I shall come back to that later when dealing with the question of appeals. Lawyers are excluded from appearing before the appeals tribunals. I am in 2 minds about the question of lawyers appearing. I can see arguments in favour and against.  Mr Justice  Toose, as the Minister for Environment Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  who is at the table knows, recommended that lawyers ought to be allowed to appear in appeals. He put forward what in some ways may be a superficial argument: That it seems ridiculous that a person can be represented in an appeal by a disbarred lawyer but he cannot be represented by a practising lawyer. I am not sure whether that by itself is a good argument but there certainly ought to be argument in this Par.liament on the question of the appearance in appeals of lawyers. 
I understand that yearly there are some 15 000 new cases for acceptance of disabilities or applications for pensions. The peak is expected to be reached in about 1985. These cases would certainly involve a large number of lawyers and a very high cost if we provided lawyers for each one of them. On the other hand, is it fair that people do not get the best representation in what may be a very important issue to them? Proposed new section 47 which is inserted by this legislation involves the onus of proof. One of the points that even some of the boards did not realise was important was the question of the onus of proof and the fact that a  prima facie  case was necessary. Applicants cannot just go to the Repatriation Commission and say that they served in the armed forces between certain dates which were eligible dates, that they now suffer from whatever the conditions may be and that it is up to the Commission to prove that that condition was not caused by war Service. Some sort of  prima facie  case had to be established. That seems reasonable enough to me. The difficulty that arises later is in deciding just how strong that case has to be to be accepted as a  prima facie  case by the Commission or by the boards. The Department is worried that if lawyers are allowed in there would be too many appeals because there would be a tendency to 'give it a go'. No matter how bad the case an applicant may have he would have nothing to lose with free legal advice and somebody to appear for him. Everybody would have a go. In the summary of his report at page 20, paragraph 83,  Mr Justice  Toose stated: 
The Act should be amended to provide that the relevant personal files should be available to a claimant, or his authorised representative, for inspection at any stage of the claim, with a discretion in the Commission to withhold the records from the claimant in special circumstances. 
I think that may well be one way of getting around the difficulty of too many appeals. When people come to me and want to make an application for a particular condition to be accepted and ask for my help I say: 'No, I cannot really help you in the first instance. I suggest that you make your application. I cannot get your medical records as a medical practitioner until your case is on appeal. Once you appeal I can have a look at your medical file and possibly supply some supporting evidence'. The person then appeals on the basis that new evidence will be provided. I do not really know when the appeal is lodged whether new evidence will come to light because I have not seen the file. I can see it only after an appeal has been lodged on the basis that new evidence will be provided. After that I have a look at the file. If I can find new evidence the person goes ahead with the appeal. If I cannot find new evidence the appeal just lapses. That seems to me to be a ridiculous method of operation. An applicant has to go before a board and then has to appeal. To me there does not seem to be any good reason why the relevant medical file cannot be provided to the claimant or his medical practitioner, for example, so that he can advise him at an earlier stage of the claim whether he could reasonably and rationally argue that he is entitled to whatever he is applying for. I think they are important issues. 
As I said at the beginning of my remarks, justice must not only be done but must also appear to be done. I am sure that many of us, whatever our previous backgrounds may have been, since we have entered Parliament have received representations from a number of people who have felt that they have been unfairly treated by the Repatriation Commission. They may or may not have been unfairly treated but the difficulty is to convince them. I think the first step which we took some years ago on the question of providing them with reasons for decisions was a step in the right direction. I think these proposed changes may be additional steps in the right direction. I hope that at some stage the Minister will also consider introducing a system- I am not sure whether it would require the introduction of legislation; I think it would be just a direction to the Department- whereby the personal files can be made available to the claimant. 
I note that in the report by  Mr Justice  Toose he said that the Act should be amended. It may be necessary to amend the Act to provide that information at an early stage of the procedures. I am pleased that the Government has finally started introducing legislation arising from  Mr Justice  Toose's report. It is a very lengthy report. It makes many points. I am sure not all of us would agree with all the points but I think basically what we are all concerned about is that the people who served in the armed forces and suffered by reason of that service should be given the benefit of any doubt on compensation, and, secondly, that the Department is run in the most efficient fashion so that money that could be going to ex-members as a benefit in compensation is not wasted in unnecessary appeals and the sort of paperwork that is carried out in the Department of Veterans ' Affairs. 
I make a final point that is probably only marginally relevant to the legislation before us but it is relevant in improving the efficiency of health care delivery which is given by the Repatriation Commission or by the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and that is the question of the use of the repatriation hospitals. I have been informedthis is relevant to the discussion on pathology services we had this afternoon- that Concord Repatriation Hospital, which is the large repatriation hospital in Sydney, has large pathology facilities which are not being used because of disagreements with pathology laboratories in other hospitals and with private facilities. The other hospitals are controlled by the Health Commission of New South Wales. It seems to me ridiculous that we have certain facilities at a repatriation hospital which have an ability to do extensive tests fairly cheaply and which are not operating. New facilities may be created in State hospitals nearby in the same district when other facilities are idle. I hope that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development will take my message back to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs to decide whether the Commonwealth Government, especially as it now underwrites State hospitals by SO per cent under the Medibank arrangements might get together with the States and save a considerable amount of money by combining services available in Commonwealth and State hospitals. On behalf of the Opposition, I commend the proposed legislation. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
How many clerical staff were employed at the Parramatta Family Court when it had (a) 2, (b) 3, and (c) 4 Judges. 
asked the Minister Assisting the 
Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many Commonwealth public servants receive a salary (a) in excess of and (b) equal to that of members and senators, i.e. $2 1,250 per annum. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Did  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the case of  Salemi v Minister for Immigration  hold that the Immigration Act did not require the Minister to act in accordance with the rules of natural justice. 
If so, does he enjoy this privilege; if not, will he amend the Act accordingly. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Was the net PA YE income tax collected from individuals $7,019.7min 1975-76. 
) Did the Budget Speech forecast an increase of this sum to $8,775m for 1976-77. 
If so, is this an increase of $ 1 ,755.3m or 25 per cent. 
What is the new estimate for net PA YE income tax to be collected from individuals in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
How many social security beneficiaries received (a) no increase and (b) a partial increase only in May 1977 due to the change in the means test preventing the conversion of certain incomes to assets in November 1 976. 
I second the motion. I address myself to the last paragraph of the motion, 'Other relevant matters'. What worries me is that an insane person was in the Navy and had a grudge against it without the Navy being aware of it, or being aware of it and not taking appropriate action. This worries me all the more as I have on a number of occasions made representations on behalf of servicemen, including Navy personnel, who, to put it at its lowest, appear to be psychologically unsuited for the Services and yet cannot get a discharge. I realise that a definitive diagnosis of psychosis is not easy and that there may be servicemen who would try to take advantage of a softer policy to obtain an early discharge. I put it to the Minister: Is it really worthwhile for the Services to keep such persons if there is any doubt? 
I have not yet had a chance to read the report of the Board of Inquiry. As far as I know, the Board of Inquiry did not deal with this particular aspect. I assume it met before the trial. It was only at the trial that the question of insanity was raised. I urge the Minister that when the matter is discussed by the committee we are proposing the question of the suitability of Service personnel in general be considered. If Service personnel feel strongly against and obviously seem to have a grudge against the Service some attempt should be made to discharge them at the earliest possible opportunity. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Hayden's ) be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 November 1976: 
1 ) How many medical claims were paid by the Commonwealth and/or Medibank, including Pensioner Medical Service claims, for the half years ended (a) 30 June 1974, (b) 3 1 December 1974, (c) 30 June 1975, (d) 31 December 1975 and (e) 30 June 1976. 
What was the number of claims for each State and Territory in the categories of services used in his answer to my question No. 816. ere circulated: 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to claims by a Canberra surgeon that only 47 per cent of appendicectomies done in Canberra were essential and that 33 per cent could not be justified at all. 
If so, what steps has he taken to check on the accuracy of this statement 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
Which organisations are receiving Health Program grant payments from the Health Insurance Commission during 1976-77. 
) On what basis are payments made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
What is the estimated cost for a full financial year of the Government subsidy for (a) private hospital accommodation and ( b) nursing home subsidies for persons who have elected to choose private health insurance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a claim in the Australian Medical Association Gazette of 12 May 1977 that (a) a solo general practitioner in a small New South Wales country town has provided screening services to 25 per cent of the adult population in a year, and (b) a general practitioner in another small country town has ordered full blood counts and pathology profiles in more than 1200 patient episodes. 
If so, has he investigated these allegations; if so, what was the result. 
The Treasurer will recall that last year in his Budget Speech he estimated that unemployment and sickness benefits would cost $580m. Even though unemployment benefits were not paid to school leavers for 2 months, the actual expenditure was $745m which is 28.5 per cent greater. Does the Treasurer expect to be able to maintain this order of accuracy? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March1977: 
) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Age  of 27 January1977 regarding the alleged wrongful arrest of a person for non-payment ofa taxation fine. 
Is it a fact that persons served with a State warrant to pay a fine have 72 hours to pay, whilst Commonwealth warrants require instant payment or the detention of the offender. 
If the position is as stated, will he take steps to alter the requirement in regard to Commonwealth warrants. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
What proportion of (a) all claims for medical services and ( b ) claims for pathology services is bulk billed to the Health Insurance Commission. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Does he have any information from private medical funds regarding claims for pathology services, which supports the proposed abolition of bulk billing for all but eligible pensioners and their dependants, because of the alleged abuse of bulk billing. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Have limitations on staff appointments and replacements caused considerable delays in the Hospitals Development Program. 
Has there been a delay in the provision of information specifically requested by the States. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) What was the cost of the full page advertisements in metropolitan dailies and any other advertisements placed by the Public Service Board on or about 12 May 1977, giving the Board 's view in the Air Traffic Controllers dispute. 
2 ) Who authorised this expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977. 
Do the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories charge patients insured with private health funds. 
I am sure that we all have been reassured by the National Country Party's expert adviser on nuclear waste disposal. I might have been more impressed with what he said if I did not know that, although he now says that plutonium and other waste products are all right for us or are good for us, he gets terribly excited about somebody who smokes marihuana and he says that marihuana is a terrible thing that cannot be released on the Australian population. 
The week before last we had a series of statements from the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 25 August said: 
But first may I say that I do not believe that any decisions of government have been so painstaking as the ones taken in relation to this inquiry. When the Government was not satisfied with the papers and official matters put before it, those papers and documents were sent back for further elaboration and for further report. 
That is a very strong claim on a very important issue. But what in fact happened? The Government decided that the Prime Minister, the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  should make statements, and those statements were printed. On the morning of the day on which the statements were released the Government suddenly decided that there was a health problem associated with uranium and asked the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to make a statement also. A statement was quickly written by the Department for him to make the same afternoon. 
It can be seen from the original copies of the Government's uranium kit that all the statements were printed except the statement by the Minister for Health which was roneod. It was not included in the contents table that was provided. So much for the thorough, painstaking decision making of this Government. The Government did not even think about the health problem. It thought instead about the trendy things. It thought about whether it would require soil to be put back, about whether uranium should be mined in the Northern Territory, about the effects on Aboriginal sacred sites, and so on. I am not suggesting that those matters ought not to have been looked at, but what worries the Australian population at large is the potential effects of uranium, the potential effects of the byproducts of uranium mining, and the potential effects of the use of nuclear energy on the health of the people of this country and people overseas. It is ridiculous for the Government to forget about the health aspects of uranium mining and then to include them in its statements on uranium mining as an afterthought. 
I refer now to the political aspects. The Government seems to think that because the Australian population at present is divided 60/40 in favour of uranium mining- those figures were achieved by people being approached in the street or at their homes and asked whether they believed in uranium mining- everything is all right and politically it is safe. The important thing to remember is the intensity of feeling. I assure the Government that, as will become plain later in my speech, I am not a committed anti-nuclear energy man. The feelings of the people who feel strongly on the question of uranium mining and who want delays in the use of uranium and a complete assurance are much stronger than the feelings of those who say that they support the mining of uranium. They support the mining of uranium in the same way as we might answer a question on whether there ought to be a nudist beach at Lady Jane Beach or somewhere else. We would say 'Yes' because it does not affect us; we do not live next door. Apart from people who have shares in uranium companies or who believe that they might be some of the few people who might get a job in an uranium mine, I can assure the Government that the people who support uranium mining do not feel very strongly about it. There is a sufficient number of people who normally support the Government parties but are extremely worried, and so they ought to be. 
Let me point out some of the contradictions of the people who have spoken in this debate. The first major contradiction was disclosed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition (  Mr Uren)  yesterday when he showed that the Government was using the Atomic Energy Act and the associated Approved Defence Projects Protection Act 1947-73 in relation to uranium mining. Is it not a contradiction for this Government to argue that we are mining uranium for nonmilitary purposes and that it will not be used by anybody else for military purposes when it intends using defence legislation in relation to the mining of uranium? To me, that is an obvious contradiction. The second contradiction by the Government concerns waste disposal. The 
Government keeps reiterating- it was said again by the honourable member for Paterson- that waste disposal is perfectly safe and there is nothing to worry about. The Government claims that it is safer than lead in petrol. Yet it emphasises that it will not allow any of this waste to come back into Australia. If the waste is perfectly safe, why emphasise that point? Cannot honourable members see the contradiction there? If it is perfectly safe it can come back to Australia; but if we do not want it back in Australia we obviously have qualms about the safety of waste disposal. 
We have had assurances from Government Ministers that the Government will not accept it back into Australia. I turn now to the question of nuclear industry. There are people not only on the other side of the House but also on our side who argue that nuclear industry will be too expensive and that we should not get involved in uranium mining. I do not share the view that nuclear energy will become too expensive and impossible to use in view of the alternatives; but, if this were so and it turned out that nuclear industry would never get off the ground, that is an argument in favour of uranium mining because if it is a mineral that will never be used we might as well sell it now, if we are satisfied about the safety aspects, because it will be worthless in the future. I also have some significant reservations about the contradictions of  Dr Mosely  and his Australian Conservation Foundation. To me, theirs is a fraudulent attitude. Three or four years ago the Australian Conservation Foundation was carried away by the Club of Rome proposition that the most important issue was the shortage of energy in the world. However, in a statement he made in July  Dr Mosely  said that there was no shortage of energy and no shortage of oil in the world. They are important contradictions. 
I refer now to the use of nuclear energy. If nuclear energy is necessary for many countries in the world, and that is the argument of the Government, and if this energy form is to be successful, there is no reason not to delay the mining of uranium. If the rest of the world wants our uranium and if we are confident that nuclear energy will be the energy form that will be used for the next 30 to 50 years, why should we not wait until we are completely satisfied about the safeguards associated with many aspects of uranium use? If there really is going to be a shortage of uranium there would be an extra profit to us if we did delay. Let us try to be rational about the health issues. I have not spoken previously in the debate or publicly about uranium. I have some qualifications, and I will tell the House what they are; but at the same time I emphasise that they only make me very doubtful about the arguments put forward on all sides. I have an honours degree in science and an honours degree in physical chemistry. I was on the staff of the Chemistry Department at the University of Sydney. I have degrees in medicine. So I am at least able to follow the arguments. I am not suggesting for one minute that I am an expert on this subject; but I can identify an irrational argument, and there are many irrational arguments. 
So I now turn to some of the health aspects about which I am worried. The Government has decided to adopt what is called the code of practice on radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores. That does not mean that there are no risks. Based on the international code, a worker who spends 50 years in the industry has a 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent chance of getting a fatal form of cancer. So obviously it is not a question of there being no risks. The workers in the industry are unlikely to have a clear understanding of the health risks involved, even if they are told of the code and even if it is emphasised to them. The code and the risks have to be emphasised. But there is a more important aspect. It is difficult to explain the proposition which I shall put to the House. One needs a blackboard. I think that quite often that would be a useful aid to have in the House if one could get people to listen occasionally. The proposition which is generally accepted and on which the question of radiation exposure is based is that there is a radiation threshold. In other words, if one is subject to an amount of radiation below that threshold nothing will happen. But if the amount of radiation exposure is above that threshold, one will be adversely affected. 
I am not at all convinced that that proposition is, in fact, true. There is at least a variable radiation threshold. It is obvious that certain cancers, leukaemias and mutations exist in the community at the present time without the people concerned being exposed to excess radiation. The assumption is made- it is possibly difficult for honourable members to follow unless they have some scientific training- that in effect there is a quantum theory type exposure. It is suggested that the amount of radiation comes in lumps and when one gets that final lump one is gone. That is not generally accepted. It is not the proposition which everybody in the community accepts and it is not the proposition which all doctors accept. It is much more reasonable to suggest that there is a sort of normal distribution curve and that the vast majority of people will be affected only when they attain a certain level of exposure to radiation. When there is low exposure, a very small proportion of the community will be adversely affected. I think those are the sorts of worries which many in the Australian community have or have thought about. 
In passing I recount a personal experience which I had while I was overseas. I was in Italy three or four years ago. I was taken to one of the nuclear power stations at a place called Latina, south of Rome. It is between Rome and Naples. After a lengthy explanation that there was no radiation outside the plant, I looked at the plant. I was standing outside on a platform. After having been told that there was no worry at all because no radiation was getting out of the plant, I saw a big sign in Italian which stated: 'Do not spend more than three hours a month here otherwise you will be exposed to excess radiation'. Obviously there is a contradiction there. Some radiation was escaping from the plant. It is assumed that the amount of radiation is insufficient to harm anyone who is there for only a short period. But there is some radiation. 
I raise one other health hazard and that is the matter of tailing dams. That is a sort of slurry of finely divided material. It is one of the remnants after mining. The full impact of the hazards associated with tailing dams has not been gone into. Tailing dams are not covered adequately in the code which the Minister for Health promised us and by which the Government said it would abide. The problem is not so bad with the Ranger mine because apparently the tailings can be replaced in the mine so that they do not run away. But in the case of Pancontinental Mining Ltd, as I understand the situation, it is impossible to get rid of those tailings in that way. Therefore there is a significant worry associated with the matter. I am sorry that I do not have enough time to deal with all the aspects with which I wanted to deal. I think it is appropriate at this stage to mention a certain statement. I see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I am sure he will be interested in this quotation. After I have read it I shall tell him where it comes from. It reads: 
We distinguish between the peaceful and non-peaceful uses of atomic energy. We support the scientific conclusions that the problem of both short and long term safeguards in the use of uranium for power are being met with the development of science in relation to use and control of uranium. 
We are not opposed to the use of uranium for peaceful purposes in industry and medicine. We, therefore, support the mining of uranium providing this is done under strict, supervised controls and in accordance with the safety and health regulations applied by the World Health Organisation and the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
That is not a statement of the National Country Party of Australia. It is not a statement of the Australian Government. It is a decision of the Central Committee of the Socialist Party of Australia which is the Moscow-oriented communist party of Australia. The statement was released on 16 November 1976. 1 am sure I am not the only member who gets correspondence from the Socialist Party of Australia, Central Committee which gave me that information. So, it is silly for people to say that those who are opposed to uranium mining are communists or pro-communists. Obviously, some of them are communists and some of them are procommunists. But obviously there are also communists and pro-communists on the other side. We find a simplicity or naivety of attitudes in many of these people and I deplore that. I am sorry that I have not been able to deal with some of the other health aspects with which I wanted to deal. I am not at all satisfied that we should not pass the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) When does the Australian Science and Technology Council meet. 
What inquiries are at present being undertaken by the Council. 
How many staff members are employed in the secretariat which supports ASTEC. 
What are the salaries and professional backgrounds of the senior members of the secretariat. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Did he state twice on 23 March 1976 in answer to a question from the honourable member for Evans that he would visit the Liverpool Women's Clinic to make his 'own assessment of the value of its continued operation'. 
If so, why has he not done so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
When does he expect to receive the second report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
When will the Government announce its policy on the recommendations in the first report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Can the Minister yet provide the numbers of social security beneficiaries who received (a) no increase and (b) a partial increase only in May 1977 due to the change in the means test preventing the conversion of certain incomes to assets in November 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
What was the expenditure on projects administered by his Department in the Electoral Division of Prospect in each financial year from 1970-71 to 1975-76, and what is the estimated expenditure for 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
How many reports from medical practitioners have been received by the Australian Registry of Adverse Reactions to Drugs in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 977: 
1 ) Did the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee carry out a pilot survey in Canberra during 1 976. 
If so, has the data from the survey been published. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Did the then Treasurer report on 19 August 1975 (Budget Paper No. 1, Attached Statements, page 39) that his Government would aim to provide a free dental service to all primary school children by 1982. 
If so, does the present Government share this aim in view of the cuts made in expenditure. 
How many dental therapists have been trained in Australia. 
How many trainee dental therapists are enrolled in training schools at present. 
Did he estimate that 2300 dental therapists would be required to provide a dental service to all primary school children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the professional qualifications and salaries of members of the secretariat supporting the committee inquiring into CSIRO. 
From where were the members of the secretariat drawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Adminstrative Services, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
When is the committee inquiring into the CSIRO expected to make its report to the Government. 
Will the report be made public. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Has the Trade Practices Commission finished its review of agreements between newspaper publishers and newsagents. 
Were any public hearings held. 
Can the publishers prevent the sale of any new newspaper by newsagents under the agreement. 
If so, how can this be in the public interest. 
Has the Commisson made is decision; if not, when can it be expected. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister who will be aware that the Public Service Board in its annual report for 1977 commented that the restrictions imposed on Public Service staff ceilings had adversely affected operations of the Commonwealth Employment Service, Northern Territory Hospitals, the administration of changes to the pensions means test and the processing of unemployment benefits. The Prime Minister will be aware also that the Auditor-General, in his report tabled yesterday, estimated that $50m had been misappropriated through overpayments of the unemployment benefit and that, because of inadequate staff resources, none of those payments had been recovered. I ask the Prime Minister: As these reports suggest that the arbitrary staff ceilings applied by the Government are causing gross inefficiencies in the Public Service and the wasting of millions of dollars of taxpayers money, will he give an undertaking to review the projected staff ceilings announced by the Treasurer in the Budget, which imply a further reduction in the current financial year of more than 3,000- or about 1 per cent- in the number of public servants? If he will not give that undertaking, does the Government intend to forgo functions or to reduce standards of service as the Public Service Board suggests will be necessary if these ceilings are applied? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What funds have been transferred from the Commonwealth to each State under the Medibank Hospitals Agreement since the inception of the scheme. 
How much of these funds was paid as (a) daily bed payments directly to recognised hospitals and (b) balance payments to 50 per cent share of net operating costs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What would be the estimated net cost to the Commonwealth of including patients in acute psychiatric hospitals, as defined at the 1976 Health Ministers Conference, under the Medibank cost-sharing arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Does section 130 of the National Health Act ensure the privacy of individuals insured with the Health Insurance Commission only. 
If so, when will he extend this protection to persons insured with private health insurance funds. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
How many trainee technical officers were recruited by the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories in each year since 1970. 
Did the number of tests and examinations carried out by the Laboratories increase during the last 2 years; if so, by how much. 
Did the staff of the Laboratories increase during the last 2 years; if so, by how many. 
Does the staff shortage cause great difficulty for the Laboratories and have the Laboratories decided not to perform certain tests. 
I support the construction of this facility. I shall raise two points because they have been raised with me by a number of persons living in the area, especially those who have investments in livestock, et cetera. Some people are worried that the quarantine security area is not secure enough. I am not an expert on this matter. I realise that the public Works Committee sat in Blacktown. It had a good look at the matter and apparently it is satisfied about the possibility of viruses escaping from the area. I am not sure whether the second point which seems reasonable to me relates specifically to this subject. It relates to the transport of animals when they land in Australia from the point of entry, say, Darling Harbour or elsewhere in Sydney, to Wallgrove. There seems to be a worry- I certainly could not say that this was not a possibility- that flies or insects could come in contact with those animals or that a truck could break down somewhere between Sydney and the Wallgrove area. I hope that the Government will take these points into consideration and make sure that there are no potential dangers from the quarantine station. 
-Let me refresh the memory of members of this chamber as to the purposes of the two Bills we are debating today. The first Bill amends the National Health Act and the Nursing Homes Assistance Act so as to provide for increased benefits to be paid by the Commonwealth in respect of eligible uninsured patients in approved nursing homes and to provide for registered hospital benefits organisations to pay similar benefits to eligible contributors who are patients in approved nursing homes by making such benefits a condition of registration for hospital benefits organisations. That is the main provision of the first Bill. The only aim of the second Bill, as I see it, is to ensure that all privately insured patients will pay for pathology services provided by the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. The Opposition will not oppose this legislation. 
In the second reading speech the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  became rather ecstatic about the legislation he was introducing. In part of his speech he said that this introduces a new era of financial security for nursing home patients. Of course it will not do anything of the sort. It will succeed only in helping patients very temporarily. I think that that is an important point and that is why we support it. Annual adjustments have been promised but they are not in the legislation. I hope that this Government, which has broken many of its promises, will not break this one. It is important to point out that although the Government says that it introduces yearly adjustments it does nothing of the sort. It makes yearly adjustment possible, in the same way as adjustments have been possible in the past. 
I think it is relevant to relate how this Bill was introduced and what is to happen. The Government admitted that many patients in nursing homes or their relatives were in dire need of support. Whilst admitting that on 16 June and saying that this legislation would operate from 1 October, the Government did not introduce this legislation until two weeks ago. I presume that the legislation will pass throught this House today, through the Senate later and will come into force on 1 October. 
For the benefit of honourable members who may not have taken a very active interest in the subject of nursing homes, I give the definition of standard fees. I think there have been a number of definitions in this respect. The report of the Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm, commonly called the Holmes report, which was presented to the Government in January this year, dennes the standard fee. The standard weekly fee has increased quite considerably since this Government came to office about 23 months ago. The standard fee for a State is defined as the fee which would cover 70 per cent of all nursing home patients in that State. In other words, 70 
Eer cent of all the beds in nursing homes would e charged for at that fee or below that fee. That is where the first difficulty arises. 
Originally the standard fee was calculated on the basis of fees charged by all nursing homes. Fees vary considerably from State to State. For the purposes of this legislation the standard fee has been increased because it covers 70 per cent of all private nursing home beds and therefore it covers probably some 90 per cent or 85 per cent - 
-Yes, 85 per cent. Therefore there is some difficulty in comparing the standard fee that is proposed to come into force in October 1977 with previous standard fees. Nevertheless, I have prepared a table which I am sorry to say I have not shown to the Minister for Health. However, I did show it to the Minister who was at the table before the Minister for Health entered the debate. I asked whether the Government would grant leave for the table to be incorporated in  Hansard.  He agreed that leave would be given. The table sets out the standard weekly fee in different States at different times as well as other things. The table has been prepared by myself and I accept responsibility for its contents. May it be incorporated? 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Is his Department at present conducting an inquiry into research and development in Australia. 
If so, what are its aims and what forms of research and development are being encompassed within the inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Is his Department conducting an inquiry into research and development in Australia. 
Is so, what are its aims and what forms of research and development are being encompassed within the inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many approved nursing homes are located in the electoral divisions of (a) Mitchell, (b) Parramatta and (c) Prospect. 
How many approved beds are in each home. 
What were the weekly charges for patients at each home on or about (a) I January 1976, (b) 1 January 1977 and (c) what are the charges at the present dme. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a letter by Harry Rolnick, a United States travel writer based in Hong Kong, appearing in the  National Times,  of 22-7 August 1977. 
If so, is he happy with the attitude of the officer of his Department referred to in the letter. 
Have the allegations been investigated. 
What steps have been taken to prevent a recurrence. 
-One of the interesting aspects in this Budget has been the attempts especially by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to describe the taxation measures as far reaching and revolutionary. As they do not generally tend to support revolutions, I assume that in this particular case they are referring to what they claim are beneficial changes resulting from the Budget. The important thing to realise when looking at the Budget is that there are no benefits for the taxpayer. Whatever our individual attitudes may be as to the rate of taxation which ought to be adopted by a government it is completely dishonest for this Government to claim that the taxation measures proposed in this Budget to commence on 1 February next year are greatly beneficial. We have only to look at the actual Budget. The Budget Papers show that pay as you earn taxation, that is the tax deducted from wage and salary earners, will increase this year by 17.2 per cent while wages and salaries are expected to increase by only 10.5 per cent. It is fairly obvious that if net pay as you earn taxation is to increase this year by 17.2 per cent whilst wages and salaries will increase by only 10.5 per cent, there will be an increased proportion of wages and salaries going to the Government. 
-Of course it is wrong. That is what I am arguing. It is wrong that taxation should increase at such a rate while incomes are increasing at a lesser rate. The Government is claiming that it is decreasing taxation. If we look at page 43 of Budget Paper No. 4 we see that the income tax collected from individuals- that is, pay as you earn tax from wage and salary earners- per head of population was $515.76 in the 1975-76 Budget, the so-called Hayden Budget; it was $609.60 in 1976-77; and it will be $707.02 in 1977-78. The increase will be from $515 to $707 per head of population. That is the total amount of pay as you earn taxation divided by the number of individuals in the community. 
If we look at the total amount of taxation collected from individuals- that is, both pay as you earn tax and tax from self-employed individuals- we get the following figures, again from the Budget Papers: The income tax from individuals per head of population in the Hayden Budget of 1975-76 was $677; in the first Lynch Budget it was $790; and this year it will be $91 1, or an increase of $234 per head of population. For the average family of husband, wife and a couple of children this means an increase of income tax of $936 yearly since the Fraser Government promised to reduce taxation. If we look at the figures produced by this Government and released by the Treasury on 8 September in the Commonwealth Government's Statement of Financial Transactions for 1977-78 and if we compare the receipts of this Government for the two months to 31 August 1977- that is, the last two months- with the comparable two months to 31 August 1976 we see that the net PA YE collection of taxation from individuals has increased from $ 1,000m during those two months last year to $ 1,450m this year. That is an increase of $450m or a 45 per cent increase in taxation in the first two months of the year. I realise that this rate will not be kept up for the rest of the year. It is due to the fact that tax refunds are much lower this year than they were last year. But the gross income tax collected from individuals has increased from $l,501m to $l,752m. Even there we have an increase of $25 lm in two months. So much for the claim by the Government that it is reducing taxation. 
As was mentioned this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  has given as one of the reasons for his not returning to this House after the next election- apart from the likelihood of his seat being won by the Australian Labor Party- or as one of the reasons for his not nominating for the seat, that he realises that the taxation measures of this Government have not done the sorts of things that the Government claims for them. As the Leader of the Opposition said, the honourable member for Tangney had his finger on the pulse. This is remarkable, since he is a gynaecologist and obstetrician. Let us look at the Government's second argument. Last year it introduced what it called a revolutionary system for helping the family. Let me quote from a recent article in the  Sydney Morning Herald- &amp;  newsaper which does not exactly support the Labor Party. The heading of the commentary by Ross Gittens, Economics Writer, is 'Tarnish on the tax image '. It says: 
The Government's halo in the area it calls 'family reform' is beginning to show distinct signs of tarnish. 
This Budget is the first of the last three in which the income position of families (as families) has taken a step back, rather than a step forward. 
The first big improvement for people with dependant families came in  Mr Hayden  's tax reforms of 1 975. 
It is not widely acknowledged, but one of the most important reforming aspects of the Hayden changes was to redistribute the tax burden away from taxpayers with dependants and on to the single, working couples and, regrettably, the elderly. 
This was done by raising the basic tax rates but, at the same time, convening the old dependant reductions into much more generous dependant rebates. 
It goes on to say: 
Last year the Fraser Government made a rather more radical change to family incomes which it hailed, with typical modesty, as 'one of this country's most significant social reforms'. 
I assume that the writer is being sarcastic. He goes on to say: 
Its beauty- 
He is referring to the Fraser Government's reform- from the Government's point of view was that it was able to help so many people at very little cost to the revenue. 
This was because the change was introduced at the same time as ' full ' tax indexation. 
Converting the child rebates into higher child endowment payments meant that the Government avoided the expense of indexing those particular rebates. 
Thus, in a full year, the net cost of the higher child endowment payments was no more than the cost of indexing the child rebates would have been. 
But the rub for taxpayers with families has come this year -not with what the Government did, but by what it didn't do. 
It didn't increase family allowance to allow for the effects of inflation. 
It is on this basis that the Opposition is arguing that 'the vast majority of taxpaying families' would have been better off had the Government maintained the child rebates and indexed them in 1976 and 1977 in the same way that the other rebates were indexed. 
Put another way, the Government's 'most significant social reform' of 1 976 is saving it a lot more money one year later. 
To illustrate the Government's trick or attempt at deceit, I have prepared a table and I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
I do not support the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  because I am interested in hearing the honourable member. I do not think he would ever attract one-third of the members of his party to come into the House and listen to him and we would always miss his contribution. 
The matter I would like to raise tonight is in connection with what is now called the Department of Veterans' Affairs. It is an argument on the interpretation of the Repatriation Act. I will give a very quick summary. I specifically refer to the case of an ex-serviceman who is now deceased. He died from hypertension- increased blood pressure- which caused a cerebral haemorrhage. He had an accepted disability of a nervous condition for which he was treated. My argument and the argument which was accepted by the Repatriation Commission is that the drugs which were used for the treatment of his psychiatric condition, which was accepted by the Commission, caused an aggravation of the blood pressure which in turn caused death. But the commissioners argued that in these circumstances the widow was not eligible for a pension. I quote from the reasons given for the decision: 
The Commission having considered all the evidence notes that there is no conflict of medical opinion on the point that the member's accepted disability may have aggravated his hypertension. 
That is the point I have made. The reasons continued: 
However, this relationship does not constitute ground for relating the member's death to his war service. Aggravation by an accepted disability or by the treatment for an accepted disability is not the same thing as aggravation by the conditions of war service and it is the latter which the law provides as ground for granting a war pension. 
This seems to me to be a ridiculous interpretation of the Repatriation Act. I think the section to which I referred was section 101 (2). The proposition is that if the condition resulting from war service causes aggravation or death it is accepted, but if the treatment for the disability causes aggravation or death it is not accepted. 
We could take as an example the case of a person who has surgery performed on him for a preexisting condition. If something goes wrong during that surgery, that aggravation or death is not accepted as being attributable to war service. To put it in other words, if the patient dies or suffers an increase in disability it would not be accepted even though it was clearly due to surgery which, in turn, was for an accepted war disability. Further, if a person's blood pressure was going up and he was treated with a drug which caused an allergy and that allergy caused an anaphylactic shock or something less severe he would not be compensable. It seems to me to be ridiculous that, if that person is being treated for a condition which is accepted as a war disability and if that treatment causes an aggravation of that preexisting condition- obviously a quite significant aggravation if it is agreed that he had mild hypertension and suddenly died- he is not compensable under our war service legislation. 
I raised this case with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs and with  Mr Justice  Toose, who had previously held an inquiry, and they both assured me that my interpretation was correct. However on appeal the Entitlement Appeal Tribunal came back with exactly the same proposition as before, namely, that under section 101(2) of the Act the Repatriation Commission was not able to pay compensation. I quote again from the reasons for the decision of the Tribunal: 
Aggravation by an accepted disability or by treatment for an accepted disability is not the same thing as aggravation by the conditions of war service . . . 
It is stated that therefore there is not a ground for the payment of a war pension. That is the interpretation of the legislation by the Repatriation Commission. I shall put this case again to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I hope that if the Minister finds that the Tribunal has given a correct interpretation to the legislation he will consider altering the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 23 August  1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service areas of (a) Parramatta, (b) Ryde, (c) Granville, (d) Penrith, (e) Fairfield and (f) Windsor at the end of (i) August 1975 and (ii) August 1977. 
Will he give statistics, where available, of the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed in each of these areas as he did in his answer to question No. 875  (Hansard,  16 August 1977, page 298). 

 -Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came into the House a few minutes ago obviously particularly worried about your ruling - 
-I am certainly not going to canvass your ruling  Mr Speaker,  but I am canvassing what the Prime Minister and some of his henchmen are doing at the present time. 
The Prime Minister is coming to my electorate on Friday. It is obviously part of the election campaign and he feels that he will be able to win the seat of Prospect at the next election. The visit is interesting. It has been organised by the Prospect Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party. The  President  of that Electorate Conference,  Mr Don  McDonald, is a bit of a con man. 
I am certainly not concerned about  Mr Don  McDonald. The Prime Minister was invited to the area by the Prospect Electorate Conference, to be welcomed by the Liberal mayor. One of the difficulties that has arisen before next Friday's reception by the Liberal mayor is that at the municipal elections last Saturday the Fairfield Council changed from being nine to six in favour of the Liberals to ten to five in favour of Labor. It is just one of those things. After all life was not meant to be easy. The Labor Party won every ward in the Fairfield Council. That was either the first time ever or certainly the first time for a long time that we have done so. 
As I said,  Mr Don  McDonald, who is organising this visit, stood as an independent Liberal candidate for the East Ward of Penrith Council. He made a big issue of the fact that he was a Liberal candidate, that he intended contesting Liberal Party preselection for the new seat of Lawson, and that he is a very popular man. At the election last Saturday he received 636 votes out of 11,000 votes cast, which is just under 6 per cent of the votes cast. He exaggerates his votes at all times. As I have said, he has nominated for preselection for the seat of Lawson and he will stand against the present honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  whose own area of Lithgow will not be included in the new seat of Lawson. The point I want to emphasise is that, during his visit to my electorate, the Prime Minister should have a look at the unemployment figures and see what has happened to the number of people registered as unemployed in the employment offices in the general western area. 
In Fairfield itself, which he is to visit, between the end of August 197S and the end of August 1977 the number of people registered increased from 2,494 to 3,915, an increase of 57 per cent. In the areas which are represented by Liberal members the situation is even worse. In Parramatta the number rose from 2,328 to 3,704, an increase of 59.1 per cent. In Penrith, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Macquarie, the number of people registered as unemployed rose from 1,072 to 1,755, an increase of 63.7 per cent. These are huge increases in registrations since this Government has come into office. The Government came into office 20 months ago and unemployment has increased continuously. I hope that when the Prime Minister comes to Fairfield on Friday he will think about this and will offer some sorts of promises to the citizens of the western suburbs to give them some hope for employment in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Are there any meaningful figures available giving (a) cost per listener per quarter hour for Austraiian Broadcasting Commission radio programs and (b) cost per viewer per quarter hour for Australian Broadcasting Commission television programs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
In preparing estimates for the 1977-78 Budget, what allowances were made for price increases already agreed to for pharmaceutical benefit items. 
What increases in the costs of pharmaceutical benefit items have been agreed to since 1 December 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Did he say in reply to question No. 1204  (Hansard,  1 December 1976, page 3085) that he was seeking information on the extent of democratic procedures in hospital and medical benefit organisations. 
If so, was he doing this in conjunction with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
What are the results of his investigation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Did he assure me on 20 May 1976  (Hansard,  page 2275) that he would consider introducing legislation to ensure to contributors of health insurance funds a democratic right to elect managing boards. 
If so, when will he (a) announce his decision and (b) introduce legislation to give effect to his assurance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 
Who are the members of the Participating Nursing Homes Advisory Committee, and what organisations or private interests do they represent. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice on 16 August 1977: 
How is the money in the Tobacco Industry Trust Account for research and extension spent 
What percentage is spent on (a) tobacco plant diseases, (b) tobacco marketing, (c) tobacco manufacturing processes and (d) research which could be described as aimed at reducing the harmful effects of smoking. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Was 100 per cent of the Australian population covered by Medibank on 31 December 1975. 
What percentage of the Australian population was covered by Medibank on 3 1 December 1 976. 
Were the administrative costs of the Health Insurance Commission $5 1.867m during 1975-76 and over $60m during 1976-77. 
If so, is this a sign of the improved efficiency, given as one the reasons for the introduction of the changes in October 1976. 
-by leave-Whilst I have a copy of the statement by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  as yet I have not seen a copy of the determination. I therefore find it difficult to comment upon the determination. The Minister emphasised the relatively small increase- as he put it- in medical fees proposed for the year commencing 1 January 1978. He emphasised that the increase for the year would be 3.8 per cent compared with an estimated increase of about 9 to 10 per cent in average weekly earnings. 
The point that should be emphasised is that in that time there have been quite a number of changed circumstances. Whilst the Minister has ignored those changed circumstances, hopefully  Mr Justice  Ludeke has not and has discussed these factors in his determination because it is very difficult to apportion an exact value to those changed circumstances. For example, since Medibank II came into operation in 1 976 a much larger proportion of persons has been privately covered. Those doctors who previously recieved a large proportion of their income from performing their duties in hospitals- I do not mean employees of hospitals but private doctors on fee for service performing their duties in hospitals- now receive a much larger proportion of their income from that source. There are other aspects which the Minister covered in answer to a question on notice from the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  reported on page 2088 of  Hansard of  27 May this year. The important point in the answer is the one we find difficulty in dealing with and hopefully  Mr Justice  Ludeke got some information from the Commonwealth Department of Health. The honourable member for Murray asked the Minister for Health: 
What information can he provide to either substantiate or demolish the allegations that medical practitioners' incomes have increases dramatically since the introduction of Medibank. 
The Minister's answer was as follows: 
It has not been possible to quantify the increase in gross incomes of medical practitioners from available records. 
That is the important point. We do not know what the actual incomes are. Later in his answer he states, accurately: 
However, medical practitioners' gross incomes have increased since the introduction of Medibank on 1 July 1 975. The increases are related to: (a) increases in fees for medical benefit purposes. Increases in fees were implemented on 1 January 1976 and 1 January 1977 . . . 
He goes on to give the details. The answer continues: 
the introduction, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, of sessional or modified-fee-for-service systems of payment to medical practitioners for services to standard ward patients in recognised hospitals, for those services previously rendered in an honorary capacity. 
I will return to that part of the answer in a minute. The answer continues: 
payment of medical benefits for the whole range of medical services for services to persons previously covered by the Pensioner Medical Service. The Pensioner Medical Service Scheme provided for payments to participating medical, practitioners for general practitioner consultation only; and 
an increase in the coverage of the population. Persons who had not previously taken out health insurance with private medical benefits funds were covered, from 1 July 1975, to the extent of medical benefits for medical services. 
Of course, they still are because under the new medical insurance scheme everybody is compulsorily covered. Part (c) of that answer refers to the increase in the incomes of general practitioners from their treatment of pensioners because previously there had been a special fee for services rendered to pensioners. Whereas general practitioners now receive 85 per cent of the full fee, previously it was only about 50 per cent of the full fee. Other doctors, especially procedural doctors working outside hospitals, now receive a higher proportion of their income from their treatment of pensioners whereas previously they did not see pensioners privately but saw them in hospitals. For example, ophthalmologists doing refractions previously did a lot of this work on elderly people in an honorary capacity but they now receive a significant payment for their treatment of these people from Medibank or the health insurance funds for doing the same work in their own rooms. 
In part (b) of the answer the Minister referred to payments for services previously rendered in an honorary capacity and in this regard I shall quote from an editorial in yesterday's Melbourne  Age.  The editorial refers to an article which was published the previous day about a complaint from the Victorian Hospitals Association concerning payments to honorary doctors, so called, by agreement. The editorial states: 
Under the agreement, public hospitals have paid more than $2 4m in the past year in sessional fees to specialists who formerly served as honoraries. 
So in just one State there was an increase, justified or otherwise, of $24m in the income of one relatively small group of people. When the arguments of the Victorian Hospitals Association were put to the Victorian Minister for Health,  Mr Houghton,  last night he said that the Victorian Hospitals Association figures did not give a true picture of the amounts paid to most visiting specialists, and it certainly did not when it comes to a figure of $6,000 for one hour's work. But, in defending the payments,  Mr Houghton  went on to say: 
Under existing arrangements for visiting specialists the average cost per hour worked is only $ 1 10. 
That is a payment of $1 10 for visiting specialists doing work on standard hospital patients for which previously they received no payment at all. For a 40-hour week they would receive $4,400 by way of what they consider to be an ex gratia payment for work which they previously did for nothing. I do not know whether those factors have been taken into consideration by  Mr Justice  Ludeke in determining the new fees. I am pleased, as is the Minister, that the inquiry determined that the 'increase in schedule fees be made differentially, that is, that the increase in schedule fees for items vary but will provide, overall, the determined increase in gross schedule fee income by specialty'. Obviously some specialists and some general practitioners have not benefited as much by changes to the health insurance system as others have and they undoubtedly are entitled to an increase in fees; but those who receive an ex gratia payment in some States and therefore receive much extra money, obviously should not have their fees increased or, if they do have them increased, not at anything like the same rate. 
I shall provide just a few extra figures. The average cost of medical services between 1975 and 1 976 increased by 1 7.8 per cent even though fees apparently were not increased by anywhere near that amount. The figures provided by the Director-General of Health show that in 1975-76 the average cost of a medical service was $ 10.85. For the six months to 31 March 1977 they increased to $12.78, a 17.8 per cent increase. Medical benefits payments in 1975-76 amounted to $629.5m. Doctors still received on top of that about 15 per cent from patients and $ 166.5m from the health insurance funds. I know that the Minister is just as concerned as I am that total health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product has increased in this country from 6 per cent in 1972-73 to . 7.5 per cent in 1975-76. This is a huge increase, a 25 per cent increase, in the proportion of gross domestic product. Obviously we cannot carry on like that. If the amount spent on health services increases at that rate everybody in this country will be either a patient or an employee of hospitals by the year 2000. 
I do not want to deal with the matter about which the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has spoken but I think it is important to realise that as far as relations between governments are concerned the honourable member should turn around and have a look at the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who, as alleged supporters of the Government, are taking a significant initiative in regard to our relations with Indonesia. I do not think that their pro-communist statements are of any great benefit. 
-Tonight I shall deal with a visit by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to my electorate on 23 September as part of his election campaign. He was visiting swinging seats around Australia and he decided to visit the electorate of Prospect. 
It is indeed a swinging seat.  Senator Baume,  who is a senator of the Liberal Party allegedly looking after the western suburbs of Sydney, visited the western suburbs for the first time in 1977 and on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  approached the Marconi Club which is an Italian-Australian club at Bossley Park, Fairfield. He asked the Club whether the Liberal Party could use the Club premises for a visit by the Prime Minister on Friday, 23 September.  Senator Baume  told the Club that the Party wanted to charge only $2 per person in order to get the maximum number of people or to give an opportunity to the maximum number of people to meet the Prime Minister. The board of the Marconi Club discussed the request and felt that it was reasonable because, after all, it was the Prime Minister. The Club said that it would provide savouries and drinks for the $2. It was much less than it would normally charge, but it was prepared to do this. The board of the Club also said that it would entertain the Prime Minister and six of his party at dinner for nothing. But what actually happened? Firstly, the Liberal Party charged $4 per person and made money out of the function. It had told the Club that it would charge $2. 
I shall come to that. The Liberal Party charged $4 for each ticket and expected the Club to subsidise the cost of the savouries and drinks. Then, instead of the six people who were supposed to turn up for dinner, a party of 60 turned up for a free feed. These were the hangers-on of the Prime Minister. The Liberal Party flogged the tickets everywhere and less than 300 people turned up. But the Club was obviously taken for a ride. It feels rather strongly about the matter. I think that it was ridiculous behaviour for a person who claimed to represent the Prime Minister of this country to go to this club which is not a wealthy club, in an area which is not a particularly wealthy area. We have to realise that the people on the board of that Club are less likely to take a stand against the Prime Minister in public. The board and the members of the Club realise that they were taken for a ride by an organisation which should not descend to that sort of thing. This is an important issue for this House to think about. The function was organised by  Senator Baume,  by a chap called Byers, an architect who is the Secretary of the Prospect Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party and by a chap called Don McDonald who is the  President  of" that Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party. They are impressive people. They both stood as candidates for different council elections in the electorate. The would-be alderman Byers stood as an independent Liberal candidate and got 697 votes out of 10,000 votes in the Smithfield ward. Don McDonald also stood as an independent Liberal and got 636 votes out of 1 1,000 votes in the St Marys ward for the Penrith Council. Both of those councils now have a Labor mayor which they did not have before the elections. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Have radio-pharmaceuticals and radio-isotopes been available free since 1946. 
Will there be a charge for them from 1 January 1978. 
Are they supplied by the Australian Radiation Laboratory and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the AMA  Gazette  of 1 September 1977 that he stated that one of the main reasons for the ending of the free supply policy is that it limits freedom of choice; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
What other suppliers ate likely to enter the Australian market after 1 January 1978. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) What  is  the present state of development of the Interscan method of aircraft landing control. 
How is the InterScan project presently funded. 
Has the Government received a recommendation for further funding of the project; if so, what level of funding has been decided upon. 
To what extent will the commercial possibilities of InterScan be affected by decisions of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1 977: 
1 ) Did he state in answer to question No. 95 1  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 983) that there had been an expenditure of $1,085,874 in the electoral division of Parramatta for a Community Nursing Program- Parramatta during 1975-76. 
If so, how many nurses are employed under this program. 
How many of the nurses work in the Electoral Division of Parramatta. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Has there been a re-introduction of tobacco advertisements on television via advertisements for cigars and pipe tobacco. 
) If so, has he discussed this matter with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
Is there medical evidence suggesting a link between the use of cigars and pipes with cancer of the lung and other pulmonary and cardiac pathology. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Medical Benefits Schedule Revision Committee. 
What are the precise terms of his reference to them regarding item 6469. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
What is the estimated number of school students for each year of schooling for each of the next 15 years for (a) Australia and ( b ) each State and Territory. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I preface it by quoting from  Mr Justice  Ludeke 's report of the inquiry on medical fees which was tabled yesterday. On page 13 of the report  Mr Justice  Ludeke refers to the fact that to come to a conclusion on medical fees it was necessary that they should be examined by reference to changes in the medical benefits scheme which have an effect on the income of medical practitioners outside the area of adjustment of fees, where there has been a change which leads to an increase in incomes and where there has been no proportionate change in work loads. He says: 
The Department also drew attention to the effects of Medibank upon incomes, and referred to features such as direct billings, changes in methods of remuneration for services rendered to patients in Standard (previously Public) wards of public hospitals and the introduction of complete medical cover for pensioners . . . 

 Mr Justice Ludeke then goes on 
-An important point about the appropriation for the Department of Health is that the net cost of running the Department of Health in 1977-78 is proposed to be approximately $2,497m. Yet the Department is unable to produce appropriate statistics to enable it to decide how to dispense that money. That is one of the depressing things about this Department. Yesterday, when we were discussing the tabling of  Mr Justice  Ludeke's report on medical fees, I said, after discussing all the difficulties involved in deciding what reasonable medical fees ought to be: 
The important point in the answer is the one we find difficulty in dealing with and hopefully  Mr Justice  Ludeke got some information from the Commonwealth Department ofHealth. 
At that time I did not know what was in the report by  Mr Justice  Ludeke. When I looked at the report last night I found that none of this information was available. Page 13 of the report is a terrible indictment of a government which talks about saving the taxpayers money and doing things in a rational way. In paragraph 22, in discussing the sorts of things which ought to be taken into account in deciding by what margin medical fees should be increased,  Mr Justice  Ludeke said, amongst other things: 
Such a decision . . . should be examined by reference to changes in the Medical Benefits Scheme which have an effect on income of medical practitioners outside the area of economic adjustment of fees; an instance of change was that leading to an increase in incomes where there has been no proportionate change in workloads. 
The Department also drew attention to the effects of Medibank upon incomes and referred to features such as direct billing, changes in methods of remuneration for services rendered to patients in Standard (previously Public) wards of public hospitals- previously the so-called honoraries were not paid- and the introduction of complete medical cover for pensioners . . . 
Doctors now receive 85 per cent of the schedule fee, compared with 50 per cent in the case of general practitioners and nothing for specialists previously.  Mr Justice  Ludeke concluded: 
In the event, the Department acknowledged that it did not have available any substantive information which would permit an assessment to be made for these matters; they have consequently played no pan in the determinations of the inquiry. 
Yet hundreds of millions of dollars has gone to medical practitioners. The figure for specialists alone in Victoria last year was $24m.  Mr Justice  Ludeke had to make decisions costing the Australian public, via the funds, private contributions and Medibank taxation, $67m. Yet he was not provided with any adequate information. This is shameful. If the media were as critical of the performance of this Government as they were of the performance of the previous Government they would be tearing this Government to pieces. 
Another interesting point arose from  Mr Justice  Ludeke 's statement. Page 27 shows that the Department of Health made a submission to him as to the estimated increase in the consumer price index for the September quarter. That was 3.25 per cent. This compares with an increase in the consumer price index in the September quarter last year of 2.2 per cent and an increase of only 0.8 per cent in the September quarter of 1975 when the Labor Government was in power. The consumer price index increased from 0.8 per cent to 2.2 per cent and then to an estimated 3.25 per cent in the current September quarter. What lies we are told in general discussion in this chamber when the Government says that inflation is on the way down. If the Government wants to support increases in doctors' fees it comes out with the real estimate. 
The discussions in Senate Estimates Committee D on Thursday, 8 September 1977, indicate changes in the school dental scheme. Grants for the States for capital and recurrent expenditure have been reduced from 90 per cent to 75 per cent. In the community health program grants for capital costs have been decreased from 75 per cent to 50 per cent and grants for operating costs from 90 per cent to 75 per cent.  Senator Grimes  asked  Dr Hennessy,  appearing for the Department of Health, the following question: 
Are there any half-completed projects that are likely to come to a stop because of the cut in expenditure this year? 

 Dr Hennessy replied: 
It is too early for us to assess that. 
He was speaking about the school dental service. He continued: 
We have to await the results of State budgets and detailed implementation of those. We are keeping a close eye on it. It seems most unlikely that any new projects will get under way. We already have information from States that planning, documentation and so on on new projects will be deferred . . . 
The important point is that there was no consultation with the States before the decisions were made. I now want to quote what was said by a person whom honourable members on the Government side usually consider reliable,  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria. He was reported on 8 September as having made these remarks in respect of this very issue. He was speaking about the Budget he had introduced. This article said that  Mr Hamer  'blamed the Federal Government for a 5 per cent cut in hospital budgets approved in March'. The article went on to say: 
He expressed serious concern at the arbitrary way the Commonwealth had cut draft hospital budgets without consulting the State. It was fundamental that the States should be confident the Commonwealth would adhere to its side of the contract in cost sharing arrangements. The States should not find themselves, without warning, carrying a much greater cost than expected. He said that the Federal Government had unilaterally- 
He emphasised the word 'unilaterally'- cut its share of the costs of community health centres and the school dental program. 
The quotation I read was from a report which appeared in the  Age  and it related to  Mr Hamer's  speech in the Victorian Legislative Assembly when bringing down the Victorian Budget. The major point to be made is that this is the concept of the Commonwealth Government's new federalism. This Government said that we were going to have all this co-operation between it and the States, yet the States were not told before the Commonwealth Budget was brought down that there was going to be a sudden change in funding, from 90 per cent down to 75 per cent, from 75 per cent down to 50 per cent. All this is being left to the States. 
I think it is important to emphasise what is happening with community health programs. There will be no funds for any new projects yet they are very important projects. I want to quote again from what was said by  Dr Hennessy  at the hearing of Senate Estimates Committee D on 8 September.  Dr Hennessy,  speaking for the Department of Health, said: 
For instance, I refer to the Eastern Domiciliary Care Service in Adelaide. In examining a number of its patients who would otherwise have been in hospital or under nursing home care, it has been able to show that these patients have been maintained successfully and in a satisfying way in the community at a cost of $5 a week which is, of course, very much less than the cost of the alternative forms of care. 
Similarly, certain calculations have been carried out in respect of a project in Fairfield in my electorate, a nome aid service. The cost benefit factor has been closely examined by the Council of Social Service of New South Wales. This was done in November 1976. It was estimated then that the provision of domestic home help with meals on wheels and a domiciliary nurse cost the taxpayer, on average, around $23 a week; that is for each patient. The alternative, nursing/convalescent home admission, brought a subsidy then of $78.40 to $99.40 a week from the taxpayer. The relevant figures now are $93 per week and $135 per week. Add to this the preference of the aged person to remain at home and we have a strong case for the expansion of domiciliary care services, particularly those which are directed to the support of the aged. 
I urge the Government to look again at its failure. Even from an economic point of view it is ridiculous to cut back on those sorts of things and to rely on people going into State hospitals, into private or State nursing homes, where the cost to the taxpayer is hundreds of dollars a week. We know that the average cost of a hospital bed in Australia is in the order of $ 1 40 or $ 1 SO a day. It now costs over $ 1 ,000 a week to keep a person in hospital. In the case of major hospitals attached to universities the figure reaches $200 a day or $1,400 a week. Surely we have to do everything possible to keep people out of hospitals. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)The  honourable member's dme has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1 977: 
Are there any estimates available for the potential saving in petrol in Australia if a 100 km/hour absolute speed limit were imposed. 
-There are a couple of issues to which I should Uke to refer in the few minutes we are given to debate the appropriations for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The first is an issue which is really shared between that Department and the Department of Social Security. It relates to the question of migrants from West Germany who become naturalised in this country and then lose their entitlement under the German Government's superannuation scheme, which is a contributory scheme. I think it is a great pity that apparently no agreement has been reached between the Australian Government and the West German Government. Generally speaking, the West German Government has signed treaties with many of the countries where ex- West German citizens now reside but it has not taken the opportunity, for reasons not known to me, to do so with Australia. People in Germany contribute to a superannuation scheme. If such people come to Australia, provided that they remain West German citizens they can still receive that pension. But if they become naturalised Australian citizens they lose that entitlement, and I think that is a great pity. 
As I understand it, we do not have any great bargaining power with the West German Government because of our decision back in 1973, when the Whitlam Government was in power, to grant pensions to all those eligible for Australian pensions, wherever they live. We cannot say to the West Germans that we will exchange that right for their granting pensions to former citizens of their country who are now naturalised Australians. However, it ought to be possible to come to some sort of agreement with what appears to me to be a very sensible West German Government. I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)-  I am sure he agrees with me that such a disincentive should not exist for former citizens of Germany to become Australian citizens- to initiate discussions again with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
The next point with which I wish to deal is one which has worried me considerably. It was again drawn to my attention tonight by one of the poorest newspapers in Australia, the Sydney  Sun,  and I would not be surprised if the Melbourne  Herald  had a similar story, although I have not looked at it today. For some weeks last month the Sydney  Sun  and the Melbourne  Herald  ran stories on the disappearance of Griffith businessman Donald Mackay, an antidrug campaigner who was killed allegedly by people of Italian origin called  Mafiosi. The only evidence that I have seen for his disappearance being connected with his drug campaigning is the fact that he was an anti-drug campaigner, but I suppose that a significant number of people are killed without being involved in anti-drug campaigning. Obviously I do not know whether he was killed for that reason or not. Journalists from the Sydney  Sun  and the Melbourne  Herald,  and Sue Smith, that silly lady from  Current Affair,  went to Italy for some weeks and probed, as they called it, the connection between the socalled Mafia and Griffith. The newspaper carried big headlines proving that people connected with Plati, a town in Calabria, were the people who had killed Mackay. No evidence was ever presented. Yet the so-called link was presented as a fact. There were huge front page headlines claiming this each day. What does the  Sun  say today? After having run the campaign for the last month, it now decides that three men are sought for the Mackay killing. On a front page spread the  Sun  reports: 
Homicide Squad detectives believe that three Indians, all illegal immigrants, may have murdered missing Griffith businessman Don Mackay three months ago. 
Now the  Sun  says that the suspects are Indians. Let me read the evidence on which all these stories have been based. Later in the article this reference appears: 
Eye witnesses told police that three men were seen in the parking area in a 1 969 light green Holden sedan about 6. 1 5. 
That was the only evidence produced that has any potential relevance to what has been said. The  Sun  article continues: 
At the time these men were described as 'dark, of Italian or Aboriginal extraction'. 
Now the  Sun  says: 
Detectives later identified the three men more positively as Indians who were thought to be fruit pickers. 
I am not suggesting that they are Indians. They may have no connection with the disappearance. They may not be Indians. They may be people of Anglo-Saxon or Irish extraction or any sort of extraction who are dark. I think there are people on the Government front bench who would be described as having a darkish, Italian appearance. I certainly do not hold that against them. I object to this attempt by the media in Australia to sell newspapers, to sell time on television, by means of fictitious stories about alleged Mafia activities being involved in the killing of one man in Griffith. 
As the honourable member for Corio pointed out, the New South Wales Liberal Party went right into it, for political reasons. Obviously, I do not know what has happened to Donald Mackay. I do not suggest that anybody here knows. If they knew I assume they would have told the police. We have this demonology, the idea that foreigners are involved in organised crime. They must be foreigners; they could not be gentlemen from the same background as the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  Yet I think he would agree with me. I am not suggesting that he is involved in organised crime, but having been a barrister in Sydney and having been a man of the world in Sydney, I think he would agree with me that the proportion of people involved in criminal activities probably does not vary much between people of different racial origins. I quote now from a book which has always impressed me. It was written by Norval Morris and Gordon Hawkins, both criminologists. It is called  The Honest Politician's Guide to Crime Control.  They make particular reference to the Mafia and therefore it is relevant to this discussion on the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. They attack the proposition that there is such a thing as organised crime in the sense that one group controls all crime in a country such as Australia. They say:  ... we have spoken of myths which exercise a powerful influence on the ways in which we think and act in the criminological field. In this chapter we deal with one of the most seductive and persistent of those myths, the demonology of organised crime. This is the notion that behind the diverse phenomena of crime there exists a single, mysterious, omnipotent organisation which is responsible for much of it. It is an idea which has long exerted a powerful influence on the minds not only of journalists but also of law enforcement agents and serious students of crime. 
They continue commenting on it. They say:  ... a large proportion of what has been written seems not to be dealing with an empirical matter at all. It is almost as though what is referred to as organised crime belonged to the realm of metaphysics or theology. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member should not be debating organised crime; he should be debating the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
I think it is relevant in the sense that people have criticised a significant group of Australians of overseas origin. Such people should be criticised for doing that. I think I have made my point. I make this final point on the question of immigration: I am not one of those who believe immigration ought to be cut out. I am one who believes that an excellent argument can be made, for economic and other reasons, in favour of continuing immigration on a significant scale. I would draw the attention of the Minister to a publication called  Nil Net Migration News,  published in August 1976 by the New South Wales Environment Centre, which could just as easily have been published by Enoch Powell. I cannot remember who signed the particular articles; indeed I am not sure that they were signed at all, but they contain ridiculous propositions with which, deplorably, the Australian Conservation Foundation associates itself, to the effect that before the Government increases immigration it must consider the subject in the light of the Federal Environment Protection Act. Surely, if that is so, the same sort of thing should be done before it decreases immigration. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 977. 
When speaking at a National Party meeting at Horsham on 27 July 1977, did he say that during 1976-77 approximately S 1000m of health expenditure through Medibank and associated programs in the health area have been removed from the Consolidated Revenue area. 
If so, will he provide the calculations by which he reached this figure. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1 977: 
1 ) Does he recall his answer to question No. 1 580  (Hansard,  9 December 1976, page 3680)in which he claimed that the number of privately insured persons will be available from the funds in early 1977. 
Does he have the information now. 
If so, when did the funds provide the information. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) What is the Government subsidy per contributor in each State forhospital onlyinsurance. 
) What is the method of calculating this amount. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report on page 4 of  Die Woche of 27  September 1977 concerning a letter sent to her by  Mr Sollers. 
2 ) If so, has she received the letter. 
What was her reply. 
What steps have been taken to obtain payments of contributory pensions for Australian citizens who formerly worked in Germany. 
5 ) What is the stumbling block to the signing of an agreement to enable these payments. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Was the estimated outlay on unemployment and sickness benefits for 1 976-77 $580.5 million as shown on page 47 of the statements attached to the Budget Speech. 
What in fact has been the expenditure on these benefits to the latest available date. 
What is the new estimate for total expenditure on (a) unemployment and (b) sickness benefits in 1 976-77. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. How many applications have been received from private health funds, including Medibank Private, to raise their medical and hospital insurance premiums in the near future? Is it a fact that some private funds have already applied for increases in their medical or hospital premiums to apply from 1 November? Will any such requests be agreed to by the Minister? If not, is this part of the Government's policy to maintain artificially low health insurance premiums until after the December elections in an attempt to hide the real costs of private health insurance from the public? 
-The debate on the estimates for the Department of Science is one of the few opportunities granted to the Parliament to discuss matters of science and science policy. Unfortunately the time allocated for discussion is so short that the subject cannot be given the treatment if deserves in full. Practical attempts by members of Parliament to come to grips with the role we expect science and technology to play never match the optimism inherent in our public statements- statements such as that which forms part of the introduction to the Liberal and National Country Party Science and Technology Policy published in November 1975 and which states quite confidently that 'advances in science and technology provide a major means for economic growth and progress towards a better quality of life'. If the Government had fulfilled the undertakings made in this policy document there would have been ample opportunity for an extended parliamentary debate on science and technology policy. Under a list of what is called 'special initiatives' the Government's pre-election science policy clearly states: 
As recommended by the OECD Examiners' Report we will present to Parliament an annual science statement indicating trends in research and development in terms of overall priorities. 
This Government has been in office for almost two full years and still there has been no sign of such a statement. 
Little evidence exists that the Government has taken any steps to build upon the major developments in science policy which occurred under the Labor Government. Between 1972 and 1975, a separate Department of Science was established, the Australian Science and Technology Council was formed, a team of examiners from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development reported on science and technology policy in Australia and a separate science task force reported to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. The report of the Coombs Commission special science task force had dramatic implications for the Department of Science. The Department's abolition was recommended. The special task force concluded that the Department had virtually no policy role and as its functions were primarily administrative these functions could be reasonably elsewhere. The task force took the view that scientific advice from within government could be effectively provided by individual departments having their own science sections. From these they could draw advice on scientific and technological aspects of their particular departmental policies. Such a system operates in the United Kingdom but as an adjunct to, not a replacement for, a department with specific responsibilities for science policy. The Department of Science predictably found little merit with the task force recommendations and was quick to put a counter submission to the Royal Commission. Despite the fact that the Department survived that threat to its existence, the suspicion remains that it is little more than an administrative centre. There is little public evidence to suggest that its policy role has developed at all in the last couple of years. 
Recent revelations that at least three inquiries are being held at present into scientific research and development in Australia, none of which directly involves the Department of Science, lend credence to the belief that the Department is not being allowed to play a role which would fully justify its existence. The Department has had experience with 'Project Score' which catalogued information on the distribution of science funds and science manpower in Australia and which required five years of effort to complete. One would have imagined that this could have formed the basis for a wider inquiry into research and development. In 1974, the OECD examiners found that Australia lagged well behind other OECD countries in the development of industrial and energy policy and that in particular there was a noticeable lack of co-ordination between various research and development sectors. It does not take much imagination to suggest a role for the Department of Science in overcoming this lack of co-ordination. To the present, we do not appear to have had any success at integrating science policy and technology policy and, until we do, our approach to such matters will be piecemeal and non-productive. 
At the moment the Department of Productivity is looking at industrial research and development. The Department of National Resources is inquiring into energy research. The Australian Science and Technology Council and the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment are supposedly looking at all research and development. It is obvious that there will be considerable duplication of effort in these undertakings and little possibility of unanimity in their conclusions. I do not regard that by itself as a bad thing as long as we get some sort of propositions put up that can be intelligently discussed by people who finally have to make the decisions. It is critical that a thorough review of scientific and technological research and development be undertaken in Australia. The Industries Assistance Commission stressed the importance of such a review in both its 1975 and 1976 annual reports when it requested a reference on the topic. It would be preferable that such an inquiry be given considerable status and be performed by a single entity which might be expected to have a continuing influence on the direction of Australia's scientific effort. Unless the Department of Science in one way or another can form the nucleus of such an entity, there appears to be little reason for continued rejection of the recommendations of the Coombs Commission's science task force. 
Having said that as a general statement on science, I will deal with two more specific problems. The first one relates to an invitation from the Minister for Science,  Senator Webster,  dated 1 June 1977, concerning the possible formation of a scientific group of Federal Parliament. In that letter to myself- I think it was sent to all membershe said, amongst other things: 
Several people have suggested to me that scientific interests in the community generally, and members of Parliament in particular, may be well served by a Parliamentary Scientific Committee. 
The Minister referred to the original British idea and stated that such a committee presently operates. He said: 
The UK body is unofficial, non statutory and non partisan. It is made up of members of both Houses of Parliament and nominated representatives of scientific and technical organisations. 
I think the proposition was first raised in Australiato the best of my knowledge it was- by  Mrs Ann  Moyle who is at present the Director of the Science Policy Research Centre in the School of Science at Griffith University in Brisbane. After giving some examples of what a scientific group of the Federal Parliament would do- such as meeting with scientists and technologists- the Minister completed his letter by stating: 
Should you be interested I would appreciate your comment on the suggestion that some similar group be brought together in Canberra. At present I foresee all secretarial work being carried out within my office. 
Your response will be welcome. 
I replied to  Senator Webster.  I said that I supported the principle as outlined by him but that I could see dangers in the existence of such a group unless fairly critical and intelligent parliamentarians formed that scientific group. As I put it: 
. I can see dangers should smooth talking rather than critical scientists succeed in 'snowing ' parliamentarians. 
I can well see the danger involved in exposing many of our parliamentarians to some of the scientists who try to push Parliament into spending large amounts of money on their particular interests at any particular time, whether it be solar energy, nuclear energy or whatever. There is a risk when people who are not terribly critical in their approach meet with the so-called experts in the field. They are likely to be hesitant in asking the appropriate questions and possibly would give the wrong advice to the Government. 
But, in principle and provided that rational critical parliamentarians joined that group- I do not suppose anybody could be excluded from joining that group-and participated actively in that group, I feel that it certainly would be of benefit to this Parliament and to any government, whether it be a Labor government or a Liberal-National Country Party government, to have a group of parliamentarians who are well informed on reasonably current issues of science and technology. I feel that many of the comments that are made in the debates in this chamber on such issues as nuclear energy are, to put it at its lowest, highly debatable from a scientific point of view. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 22 September: 
Did he say on 10 March 1977 that a task force had been set up in his Department to monitor the uranium debate. 
) If so, what form did the monitoring take. 
3 ) Who are the members of the task force. 
Did he produce a report on the debate to Cabinet. 
) If so, will he publish the report; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
What proportions of the beds at each Repatriation General Hospital were (a) occupied by (i) eligible exservicemen, (ii) other ex-servicemen and (iii) others and (b) unoccupied at the most recent date for which the information is available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
Has a Biohazards Committee been established at Adelaide University. 
If so, who are the members of this committee. 
Is the Australian Government represented on the committee. 
Will the Australian Government make submissions to the committee. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What is the requirement for nursing staff to patients in registered nursing homes in each State and Territory. 
What is the award wage for all classifications of staff commonly employed in nursing homes for each State and Territory. 
For nursing homes approved under the National Health Act, what was the median weekly fee for each State, when last surveyed. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
What are the current rates of the two types of sustenance allowance, and what are the respective conditions for granting them. 
-Tonight we are debating cognately eight income tax Bills. I address my remarks specifically to the Health Insurance Levy Bill 1977 and matters related to it as well as to the general propositions which have been raised in the debate. I think it might be more appropriate for those who have been following the debate if I first deal with the general propositions raised by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  who has just concluded his contribution. The main point he made- apart from the proposals dealing with matters affecting his electorate specifically- was that everybody was better off under the new tax scheme. He repeated the phrase used by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his second reading speech on this legislation. In referring to a previous speech, the Treasurer said that the system is revolutionary, that it is simple and, above all, by a reduction of tax at all levels of incomes it goes a long way towards restoring incentive and so on. They are exactly the phrases used by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. The second point that the Treasurer made was that, if I remember rightly, some 225,000 would-be taxpayers would now be exempt from taxation. This is of course a fictitious figure, as honourable members know. Every year a new number- this year the number is lower than usual- are exempt from taxation. The lower income earners, just the same as other income earners, have an increasing income and the same people are exempted year after year. I quote from the Budget Speech made by. the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in 1975, when he was the Treasurer. 
A sad feature of Australia's personal tax system is that for decades many people in real poverty have been obliged to pay quite substantial tax bills. The new system removes from the list of taxpayers, and relieves of all tax almost half a million taxpayers on the lowest incomes. 
He exempted half a million taxpayers in that particular year. Since then, about 200,000 have been exempted each year. They are always exactly the same people. They are exempted one year, their income rises slightly, they are then included in the tax schedules, the taxation schedules are raised slightly, and those people are again exempted. We get this pretence by this Government that some new group of people has been added to those in the community who are exempt from taxation. In fact additional people have been added to the tax system. 
It is ridiculous for this Government to pretend that people are paying less tax, that they are better off. Let us look at the actual figures. Budget Paper No. 4 reveals that pay-as-you-earn income tax collections per head of population in 1975-76, in the so-called Hayden Budget, amounted to $515. In 1976-77 it was $609, and in this current year it is estimated to be $707. There are fewer people working now than there were then. So those who are paying tax are paying much more tax. If we take not only those who are paying tax on the pay-as-you-earn basis but also the self-employed, the income tax per head of population in the Hayden Budget in 1975-76 was $677. In the first Lynch Budget it was $790. This year it will be $91 1-an increase of $234. In the two years since this Government has come to power, there has been a $234 increase per head of population in the tax collected. For the average family consisting of a husband, a wife and two children, this means an increase in income tax of $936 yearly since the Fraser Government promised to reduce taxation. It is no wonder that Fraser and Lynch are considered deceitful. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
How many community health centres were operating with Australian Government assistance in each State on 30 June 1977. 
What was the total number of staff employed in these centres in each State at that date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Has the committee headed by  Dr Woodruff  reported on the advertising of alcohol on the electronic media. 
If so, what were its recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) In view of his inability to provide, in his supplementary answer to question No. 1571, figures for claims for anaesthetic services prior to June 1975, can he provide any figures showing the number of operations requiring anaesthetics performed on private patients in Australia in each of the last ten years. 
Can he provide similar figures for standard hospital patients. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
What was the cost to the Australian Broadcasting Commission of the coverage of the America's Cup challenge and its preliminaries at Newport, Rhode Island, United States of America. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of the persons who are the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in South Australia. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the funds incorporated. 
What provision does the State or Commonwealth law or the rules of each private fund, have for the election of the governing board of contributors to the fund. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What is the (a) medical and (b) nursing staff establishment for Darwin Hospital. 
How many vacancies exist in each category at the latest date for which information is available. 
How many vacancies for (a) medical staff, (b) nursing sisters and (c) paramedical staff exist in other Northern Territory centres. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) In what proportion of pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions are the items identified by their (a) proprietary and (b) generic names. 
What is the percentage share of the market for the 100 most commonly used items prescribed by their proprietary name for each drug company supplying these items for the last six month period for which figures are available. 
Can he estimate the proportion of the market for each drug company for the same items prescribed under their generic name. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What was the (a) average and (b) median daily cost per occupied hospital bed for each State and Territory and for Australia for each of the last five financial years. 
Are any figures available comparing costs in (a) metropolitan, (b) teaching and (c) country hospitals. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of the persons who are the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in Victoria. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the funds incorporated. 
What provision does the State or Commonwealth law, or the rules of each private fund, have for the election of the governing board by contributors to the fund. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What are the names of the persons who are members of the governing boards of the private health funds in New South Wales. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the funds incorporated. 
What provision does the State or Commonwealth law, or the rules of each private fund, have for the election of the governing board by contributors to the fund. 
I make the point for the  Hansard  record that the remarks I made on the second reading of the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill (No. 2) in the cognate debate were, of course, intended to relate to this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of the persons who are the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in Queensland. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the funds incorporated. 
What provision does the State or Commonwealth law, or the rules of each private fund, have for the election of the governing board by contributors to the fund. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Does he recall that  Mr Justice  Ludeke, in his recently concluded inquiry into doctors' fees, assumed a 3.2S per cent increase in the consumer price index for the September quarter and based his findings, in part, on this assumption? He is no doubt aware that the consumer price index rose in fact by only 2 per cent. When will the Minister therefore ask  Mr Justice  Ludeke to re-open the inquiry and save Treasury and the contributors to private health funds a significant proportion of the $65m increase recently wrongly awarded to the medical profession? 
I will not delay the House for any length of time but I am still not clear in my own mind as to what can be the explanation for this mistake. A very superficial look at the figures that appear in the report of the Distribution Commissioners which was tabled in the House about a fortnight ago, compared with the election statistics for 1975, shows quite clearly what has happened. Let me give the House the enrolment figures for electorates in alphabetical order. At 13 December 1975-these were the last electoral figures-enrolments for the seat of Banks were 62,564 and the enrolments according to the report of the Distribution Commissioners were 63,112- up by less than 600. For Barton enrolments went from 67,542 to 68,641- up by about 1,000. For Bennelong, enrolments went from 70,215 to 71,573- up by about 1,300. Then we come to Berowra. The statistics show us that from an enrolment of 68,984, 18 months later the figure suddenly went up to 76,122 -a difference of 7,200-odd. It seems terribly obvious. The difference in every other electorate was less than 1,000 and suddenly when we come to this electorate we find that the difference is 7,000. Surely somebody should have taken some notice of the difference. 
What worries me about this matter is that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  cannot be in the House tonight.  His  electorate is adversely affected from a party point of view by this mistake. If it had been realised earlier that the Division of Berowra was 4,000 short, the boundary of Berowra would have gone north and the boundary of Robertson would have gone north also. The net result would have been that Robertson would have taken in part of Swansea, which has been taken away from it and which has a huge Labor majority. I think the figure was approximately 70 per cent at the 1975 election which I think all honourable members would agree was somewhat unusual from the Labor Party's point of view. At the last Federal election in 1975, in the subdivision of Swansea, Labor received 70.6 per cent of the vote and the Liberal Party received 27.6 per cent. This subdivision has 5,234 electors. I think all honourable members would agree that this makes a difference of 2,000 to the Labor vote. 
Robertson has now been placed in the Liberal side, if one looks at the so-called 'Mackerras pendulum'. It is extremely unfair to have a redistribution in the State of New South Wales which unfairly prejudices the honourable member for Robertson. I have no doubt that he will still win. What is the net result? A mistake- a terribly obvious mistake- was made by the Distribution 
Commissioners because they were pushed to work very quickly so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  could have an election on 10 December. They were pushed very quickly when they were supposed to be checking the redistribution between the first and the second tabling of these documents because the Prime Minister wanted a change made in the electorate of Lowe. He had the Distribution Commissioners panicking. They were pressured by the Prime Minister and, undoubtedly, by the Minister for Administrative Services,  (Senator Withers)  to make this redistribution very quickly, much more quickly than they obviously were able to do in terms of their competence. I deplore the fact that as a result a completely illegal act has taken place. The Government has remedied that in the way it has done on a number of occasions in the last few weeks, that is, by changing the law arbitrarily. I deplore this action. I think it is an extremely unfair thing to do. It is unfair to put that sort of pressure on the Distribution Commissioners; it is unfair on people who should have checked the report of the Distribution Commissioners; and it is unfair to the honourable member for Robertson. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Opposition supports the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill. I remind the House very quickly of what this Bill is about. The Homeless Persons Assistance Bill was introduced in November 1974 by the then Minister for Social Security, Bill Hayden, on the basis of a report of a working party on homeless men and women. The report recommended, amongst other things, that capital grants should be made available over a three-year period to voluntary agencies and local and statutory authorities for approved projects such as night shelters, reception and assistance centres, hostels, flats, day centres, special clinics and detoxification units in order to upgrade and replace existing inadequate accommodation and to build new facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. 
In addition, the Bill provided for the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary a social worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations could be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation were provided. That subsidy amounted to 75c a day. A subsidy of 20c was provided for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. Of course, many organisations such as the Salvation Army took advantage of the money available under this legislation. The working party which had recommended the introduction of this legislation also recommended that the program should be reviewed after three years and therefore that the major provisions of the Act relating to capital and rental grants remain operative until 13 December 1977. 
What has happened now, in fact, is that the Government feels, because of the calling of the early election, it has not been able to come to a decision on the recommendation of the so-called Bailey report- the report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Health and Welfare- in which it is suggested that there be a much wider homeless persons assistance program incorporated in what is called a sheltered accommodation program and some re-organisation, with the help of the State governments. I am not impressed by that recommendation of the Bailey report. I think that it has been made basically in response to a Federal Government proposition that the cost of many or all of these schemes be handed over to the States. It is not really intended to make the schemes more efficient. It is intended to save money for the Federal Government. As of 30 June this year financial support has been given towards the running costs of 95 homeless people centres with a total bed capacity of 3,102, so obviously a large number of people are benefiting by it. It is an essential service. 
I do not want at this stage of the evening to get involved in the more general question of refuges and as to whether they ought to be subsidised under this Act or from the Community Health Centre grant or other grants which are administered by the Department of Health, as most of the refuges are at this time, and as the Minister at the table would know. I would urge the Government to look at the prescribed rates that are available for approved organisations. At present the prescribed rate, which was introduced in 1974, is 75c a day for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation is provided, and only 25c for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons. I think everybody in Australia would agree that these amounts are inadequate. They probably were adequate back in 1974 when the legislation was introduced, but there should be some method of indexation so that the Salvation Army or other appropriate organisation miming these hostels or other accommodation and providing the food gets a larger supplement from the Government. The total sum involved is very small and it would only be fair if at Budget time, when we are looking at the proposition of indexing taxation for people who are relatively lucky, in the sense that they are earning taxable income, we also look at the proposition that we should index subsidies for those destitute persons who are covered under this legislation. 
I do not suppose that the Minister has the figures available at the moment, but can he advise me what is the saving to the Government arising from the elimination of the sickness benefit for males whose spouses are working? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of the persons who are the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in Tasmania. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the funds incorporated. 
What provision does the State or Commonwealth law, or the rules of each private fund, have for the election of the governing board by contributors to the fund. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to question No. 1274 which indicates that the honourable member for Macarthur is a regular contributor to  Quadrant. 
If so, is he able to say what payment the honourable member receives per 1000 words of contribution. 
Is he also able to say whether the New South Wales Liberal M.L.A.,  Mr Peter  Coleman, is the editor of  Quadrant. 
Can he say what payment the editor receives. 
What subsidy did  Quadrant  receive from the Literature Board of Australia during 1 976-77. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1 977: 
1 ) Have staff limitations made it difficult to maintain adequate quarantine surveillance at many ports of entry. 
Have particular problems arisen at (a) Sydney Airport, (b) Tullamarine Airport and (c) ports along north-west Australia. 
-This Billrovides a number of amendments to the Socialervices Act. The Opposition opposes only one of the proposed amendments. To the motion that the Bill be now read a second time I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House deplores the failure of the Government to abolish the seven day waiting period when introducing payment in arrears for unemployment benefit. ' 
I foreshadow that in the Committee stage of the debate the Opposition will be voting against clause 13 which concerns the payment of unem. ployment benefits for school leavers and those leaving tertiary education institutions. In dealing with the Bill I shall quickly refer to the proposed amendments. There is the extension of the eligibility for the handicapped child's allowance to less severe cases where the family income is low and financial hardship would otherwise be suffered. The Opposition supports this but has slight reservations about the manner in which the Government has made the amendment and the method that is being used to increase the benefit, namely, the widening of the discretion of the Director-General of Social Security. The Bill gives no indication of how the handicapped child's allowance will be applied or how the Director-General will decide whether a particular instance causes severe financial hardship to the family. Basically, we support the proposition that those families should be entitled to the allowance. 
We support the extension of the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service to those who are not at present eligible. Provided they can benefit by the services I feel very strongly that the service should be extended. The only questions I have are: Are the facilities adequate? How many people are receiving rehabilitation treatment at present? How many people does the Government estimate will be entitled to the rehabilitation service when the guidelines are changed? I now turn to one of the more controversial sections of this legislation. I refer to the doublespeak of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  when giving the second reading speech he said: 
Removal of a provision which discriminates against married women in relation to sickness benefit and bringing the income test for sickness benefit into line with that applying to unemployment benefit 
That sounds very impressive. The Government is removing some discrimination against married women. Anybody who heard the Minister making his second reading speech would have assumed that there will be a benefit for married women. In fact, what the Government is introducing is the removal of the benefit which husbands, who would be entitled to sickness benefit on all grounds, except when their wives were working, receive at present. This benefit will now be removed in the case of husbands. So it is the removal of a benefit and not the granting of a benefit at all. Let me give an example of the sort of doublespeak to which I am referring. If the Government were to grant equal pay to women to fight discrimination and so on it would do that by reducing the male rate of pay. 
The fourth item in the legislation gives effect to the Government's decision to make it impossible for school leavers to receive unemployment benefit until the end of January or early February. Honourable members will recall that last year the Government made that decision believing, I assume, that it was entitled to make that decision. One case, the Karen Green case, was taken to the High Court and the High Court ruled that that decision could not be made in an arbitrary manner although it was possible to make that decision in individual cases if the cases did not satisfy the guidelines. Now the Government is to make this decision apply generally. 
The Government is also introducing retrospective payments for unemployment benefit and argues that this was recommended by  Dr Myers  in his report on the payment of unemployment benefit. What  Dr Myers  actually recommended in his report was that retrospective payments should be introduced for unemployment benefit provided the waiting period of seven days is abolished. I quote from paragraph 4.1 1.7 where, referring to payment in arrears which I think is the official title, and the abolition of the waiting period, he said: 
Indeed, the two measures fit hand in glove, as fortnightlypayment in arrears without the waiting period would cause  hardship  in the period before the first cheque was received. 
This would be fairly obvious to most people who have had any experience with the majority of persons who become entitled to unemployment benefit. The changes in the procedure for the 
Eayment of unemployment benefit which have een implemented from the beginning of November will create considerable hardship for those people registering after that date. People will register. They will return a form on about day 15. The Government, on day 21 or thereabouts, will pay a cheque for seven days benefit. Then, on day 34 or thereabouts there will be another cheque. So for the first month all persons entitled to receive unemployment benefit will have received only one cheque. They are being asked to cope for a month or more on only one week's benefit. 
The main reason given for this change from the current system of payment in advance is that the system has led to over-payments. These seem to have been largely as a result of staff shortages. The penalisation of the unemployed seems very harsh. The seven-day waiting period has been retained despite the recommendation of the Myers inquiry that it be abolished. If the Government were to accept the recommendation for the abolition of the waiting period the first cheque would then be for two weeks payment in arrears. This is what the Opposition would urge. The assumption behind the waiting period is that people actually apply for benefit as soon as they are unemployed and will therefore have some carry-on money. There seems to be evidence that people often avoid registering as unemployed because they hope to avoid the stigma of being on unemployment benefit, or on what the 
Government calls the dole. These people therefore delay their application until they are running out of money. 
For these people the new changes will be disastrous. The long wait for the receipt of their first fortnightly benefit will leave them completely penniless. They will not receive their first fortnightly benefit until the second month of unemployment. The current system, with the inevitable problems of bureaucracy, has already placed additional strains on many agencies which are having to assist people waiting for their first cheque. The change in the system can only make the load on these agencies even heavier. I am now speaking about voluntary agencies or some agencies funded or helped by State governments. 
Let me state the Opposition's position on the question of unemployment benefit. Our policy is to pay unemployment benefit for the first week of unemployment. It is imperative now that payment of unemployment benefit is made in arrears after production of an income statement. We accept that proposition, but we say that that should be done only provided the other part of the Myers suggestion is also accepted- the payment for the first week of unemployment. Without benefit being paid during the waiting period beneficiaries are forced to live for a month on one week's income. It has been found by people who have looked at this situation that 67 per cent of the unemployed have less than $50 in savings. We cannot condone the hardship, the chaos and the strain on voluntary agencies without a national program of emergency aid. 
The Opposition has put a question on notice in an attempt to find the cost of paying the first week's unemployment benefits but, as far as I know, when I last looked for it, the answer has not been given. 
I would like now to make a few comments on the Government's announced intention, both by statement by the Minister for Social Security and by a foreshadowed amendment by the Minister for Health to amend this Bill in the Committee stage for the purpose of bringing in a lone father's benefit similar to the supporting mothers' benefit. The Opposition advocates this strongly. We announced some time ago that this was part of the Australian Labor Party's policy for the forthcoming election. We all know that we are sitting here at present and will be sitting here for at least one and possibly two days next week, for purely cosmetic reasons as far as the Government is concerned. 
The many promises that it made have not been carried out and it is trying to bring in some amendments and, as far as it can, it will try to introduce legislation covering the sorts of things the Opposition has promised. The Government has suddenly found that money is available after having said when the Opposition proposed the lone father's benefit that it was impossible to do this sort of thing and that it was irresponsible. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  nods his head in agreement. I am glad to see that. He knows that the Government has previously told him that certain things could not be done. As I understand it, the Treasury was asked to cost the lone father's benefit and the percentage range of its costing estimate was one of the widest ever. The Treasury estimated that the cost would be between $9m and $4Sm a year. That leaves a 400 per cent margin of error, which is quite considerable. It is one of the difficult things to cost because we do not know how many lone fathers will take advantage of it. 
Inasmuch as many lone fathers at the present time may be working because they have no alternative, this benefit will make it possible for them to give up work, in some cases at least, and to look after their children. The children will obviously benefit. The family situation, such as it exists m those cases, will obviously benefit. There will be, at least in theory, a clawback because one assumes that the jobs which then will become vacant, because the lone fathers are leaving those jobs, will be taken by other people. The net cost to the Government at a time of very significant or very high unemployment is, of course, less than the actual cost because unemployment is reduced and some people are enabled to receive benefits at the same time. I assume that it was a combination of these factors, the fact that there is an election coming on and the fact that the Government expects unemployment to get much worse next year- I suppose those two go together- which finally convinced the Government overnight to bring in this legislation which had been foreshadowed by the Australian Labor Party. 
I do not want to take up the full time allocated to me, but there is one other point I want to raise. It is related to school leavers. Perhaps it will shorten the debate in the Committee stage if I make what to me is an important point. I heard the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  when this matter was debated before, arguing that parents ought to be able to look after their children; that they ought to take the responsibility for looking after their school leaver children for the six weeks over Christmas and 
January because to look after their children is just one of the obligations that parents accept. This may or may not be so. It is much easier for the honourable member for Petrie to say that or for me to say that than it is for people in much worse economic circumstances. I have received complaints from my electorate, and I am sure that other people received them last year, from persons who were completely unable to look after their school leaver children at that time. They include pensioners and other parents. What I find particularly unpleasant is the fact that the family allowance stops when the child leaves school. In the case of pensioners the dependant benefit stops when school finishes; yet those children do not become eligible for anything else. That is fair enough if the child can find a job, but we all know that it will be very difficult this year, as it was last year- it will be even more difficult this year- for young people to find a job. 
What does the woman who is on a widow's pension do for six weeks to look after her child who is unable to find a job? It is all very well to say that she can apply for special benefit or perhaps that the Director-General of Social Services will accept her as a special case. It will take a long time to obtain that benefit. It takes a long time to get it at ordinary times; but Christmas, with all due respect to the Department of Social Security, is not one of the times when one obtains the fastest response from any government department. There may be the case of a widow, or any other person receiving social security benefits, whose children have been entitled to a benefit of, I think, $7.50. The children have been entitled to a family allowance, depending on their position in the family, of at least $3.50 per week. The allowance can be affected if there are a number of other children. The other children then move into other positions and the family allowance drops. There may be a sudden drop in income of $1 1 to $12 for that family, which is probably a very large proportion of the total income. That child then has the additional costs of trying to find a job- the costs of going to the Commonwealth Employment Service office, going to the office of the Department of Social Security, ringing up, buying newspapers which advertise jobs and that sort of thing. I hope that the Government at least will give instructions to the departmental officers to deal with applicants in a sensitive way and not to treat them in the way that this Government normally treats these people, since it no longer will be facing an election on 10 December. Hopefully, by then, the present Opposition will be in government and hopefully new instructions will be issued by a new Minister for Social Security. 
The other point with which I have some difficulty is the proposition put by the Government that it will not pay unemployment benefit for school leavers until six weeks after the examination is due. I am not quite sure how that will be interpreted. Basically, it means that a school leaver will not be able to leave school before his or her final examination for the year. The same will apply to people with some tertiary training. I think this is a bit rough on a number of people. I know that the Director-General of Social Services is able to give this benefit for good and sufficient reasons, but I am not quite sure what these good and sufficient reasons would be. One of the other changes I would urge, with regard to this general question of unemployment and sickness benefits, is that they be bought into line with other payments as far as permissible income is concerned. The important point there, as those honourable members who try to claim such benefits for their constituents would be aware, is that, for example, in the case of a single pensioner the permissible income is $20 a week. In the case of a single person applying for unemployment or sickness benefit it is $3 a week. If that person earns more than $3 a week, or $6 a week in the case of a couple, there is a loss on a dollar for dollar basis. This means that only a very small income can be earned. People receiving unemployment or sickness benefit can get into strife very quickly. 
Finally, I am not one of those who argue that women who become unemployed should be entitled to unemployment benefit when their husbands are employed. I know that this issue has been raised by a number of women, but I feel that it would be too difficult to police and too expensive. I cite the case of a family where both the husband and wife have been working and it would be a very low income family if only one person was working. With both the husband and wife earning something of the order of $150 a week, the total family income would be approximately $300 a week, and probably around $260 a week after taxation. This would be a quite reasonable income for that family. If the wife suddenly loses her job, that income falls to $ 1 40-odd a week. That is a hell of a blow for that family and I am sure that none of us could survive for any length of time on that sort of income without drawing on our capital resources. This is one of the questions that have to be raised. I realise that in some ways it contradicts some of my other arguments about school leavers, but I invite honourable members to compare the income of that family with the relatively high incomes of people such as ourselves who possibly have working wives. When one of the children reaches the age of 16 or 18 years and leaves school, and after a period of six weeks has not found a job, that family, provided the child is under 18 years, will receive $36 a week, and if the child is over 1 8 years the family will receive, I think, $49.30 a week even though there is a parental income of $500, $600 or $700 a week. Is this a fair way of doing it as far as means testing goes? When the boy or girl is still at home and is looking for a job the question of means testing is a very difficult one. We talk about the family unit in the sense of two spouses with a total income inasmuch as one or the other is entitled to a benefit, but the children are not taken into account. 
I am not going to advocate a means test based on parental income which takes into account unemployment and sickness benefits for children. I want to emphasise that. Otherwise I will be quoted during the election campaign as saying that I was advocating that. I do not advocate it. But surely people here can see that possibily there is something wrong with our approach in the situation which I was talking about before, where a couple whose incomes drops suddenly from $260 or $280 a week to $140 is entitled to nothing, but the other family with no drop in income at all and with a boy or girl still at home, as he or she has been for the previous 18 years, will get from the state $49.30 a week I think it is, in unemployment benefits. I hope that whichever government is in power after 10 December will look at this for the purpose of possibly increasing the level of the means test for the unemployment benefit so that if a husband and wife really earn only a basic minimum income they still receive some subsidy when one or the other becomes unemployed. I commend to the House the amendment that I have moved. I emphasise again that we will be dividing on clause 13 of the Bill in the Committee stage. 

 -Mr Chairman, this has stirred me. This is ridiculous. Government supporters are trying to play up the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and put on an act as though he really had something to do with this particular piece of legislation. Do not let us kid ourselves. This is benefit week for the Tasmanians. 
All right, but the lone fathers are responsible for this legislation, not the honourable member for Franklin. He had nothing to do with it. There have been people trying to get this piece of legislation through for years. After the announcement about the election, we get the tearjerker that the honourable member for Franklin is responsible for getting this benefit for the lone fathers. He may get a few votes from the lone fathers of Franklin, but let me tell him that there are a lot of people unemployed through lack of work because of the things he and his Government have done. Those in his own electorate will vote against him. He will lose his seat. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 12- by leave- taken together. 
-I should like to state formally the Opposition's objection to clause 13. Hopefully the people of this country, particularly those who have children leaving school this year, will remember when they are voting on 10 December that because of the niggardly behaviour of this Government their children will not be able to receive unemployment benefit for six weeks after their examinations are completed. We have the ridiculous provision in this legislation that tertiary students will not be able to obtain unemployment benefit for six weeks after their examinations if they do not complete their courses, unless the DirectorGeneral is satisfied that the cessation of their studies was not due to a voluntary act and that there was good and sufficient reason for it. We will have more people continuously asking questions, people who are already in strife because they cannot get jobs. Hundreds of thousands of people leaving school or tertiary institutions of some kind will now be deprived of six weeks unemployment benefit. In some cases it will be much more than six weeks unemployment benefit, because even if they leave earlier the Government can rule that they left without a good and sufficient reason, that they left by a voluntary act, the voluntary act being trying to find employment Under this Government, of course, trying to get a job is not a good and sufficient reason. 
These people will not be able to receive the unemployment benefit until some time in February, no matter what time they leave after about August. I think this is a very unpleasant way of saving money and of pretending that the number of unemployed in this country is much less than it really is. The Opposition therefore opposes clause 13. 
-The Minister might as well argue that lone fathers should not be entitled  to the  benefit because it will take away their incentive for finding a spouse. This is ridiculous. The whole point of benefits is that if one qualifies for something specific one is entitled to receive it. This is a major discrimination against those families in the country who find it difficult to keep their children when they leave school and cannot find a job. 
-I put to the Minister earlier that this is exactly the sort of contempt that rich graziers have for the people in the community. I would suggest that there are plenty of people in the Minister's electorate- widows with children leaving school for example. They lose the family allowance for the child. They lose the pension benefit for their children once they leave school and they cannot receive unemployment benefit. 
-They will receive the special benefit sometime in January. 
Question put: 
That clause 13 be agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
What institutes and laboratories under the control of the Commonwealth Government are carrying out research in genetic engineering. 
What are the topics of research being carried out 
What safeguards are employed in each of these institutes to prevent contamination by genetically altered material. 
What mechanism does the Government have to ensure that it has complete knowledge of all of these projects. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
How many patient bed-days were classified as (a) hospital patients and (b) private patients, or the corresponding classifications before the Medibank hospital agreements, in each State and Territory during each of the last 5 years. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Health, Valley hospitals. 
How many of the specialists attend both hospitals. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
What was the total value of medical claims paid by (a) the Commonwealth, (b) private health funds and (c) Medibank, during each of the years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1 976-77 or any pan thereof. 

 -Mr Speaker, as my letter to you indicates, the Opposition is concerned about the Government's failure to deal with the rising costs of health care. My speech certainly will not be highly political in the sense of being completely critical of the Government, because I can see difficulties for the Government and I can see great pressures on the Government. But I think it is important that the Government should stop blaming Medibank and should stop looking for easy book-keeping methods such as just transferring costs. It should be introducing real methods of reducing total costs. Health care costs in Australia increased by 36.4 per cent in 1974-75 and by 26.8 per cent in 1975-76. No wonder most of the instant experts writing feature articles for the Press or pontificating on television and radio blamed Medibank, especially as their so called 'in depth' investigations were often based on handouts from the Voluntary Health Insurance Council and the Government. There is only one catch: Medibank Medical started on 1 July 1975 and Hospital Medibank even later. Therefore the huge increase in health care costs preceded Medibank. It is true that there was a transfer of payments from individuals and States to the Commonwealth, but the rise in outlays after Medibank was introduced decelerated. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  accepted that in an article that he wrote for the Australian Medical Association gazette. 
Having assumed that Medibank can be blamed for the increase, the 'experts' have looked for reasons. The commonest have been a rip-off by doctors, unnecessary over-use by patients and the cost of the Medibank bureaucracy. Let me deal with the last one first. Medibank Public administration costs, when 100 per cent of the population were covered in 1 975-76, were lower than a year later in 1 976-77 when only about 35 per cent were completely covered. No wonder, as checking the eligibility of claimants costs more than the now illegal payments for those covered privately and claiming wrongly would cost. To this must now be added the huge administrative costs of Medibank Private and the other 160 private hospital and medical funds. Also added must be the cost of the extra work in the Taxation Office of assessing which taxpayers have to pay the levy and calculating it. Sooner or later investigators will also have to be paid to check whether taxpayers wishing to avoid the levy are giving correct information regarding financial membership of private funds. 
The claim that the increase in medical consultations and medical rip-offs is due to Medibank is also untrue. Medical claims paid by the private health funds during 1974-75, the last year before Medibank, increased by 5 1 per cent over the previous year. The only change to increase costs due to Medibank was making consultations in specialists' rooms or at home available to pensioners and upgrading payments to general practitioners for services to pensioners. All the other refunds and payments were previously available from the funds. 
If one looks at the figures published in today's  Australian- I  think it is a report of a speech by  Dr Deeble-  one will notice that the number of medical services by general practitioners rendered to non-pensioners before Medibank was introduced was 3. 1 1 per year. This has increased, now including pensioners, to 3.50 after Medibank. If one remembers that the pensioner medical service paid for 8.2 services per year per pensioner one notes that the increase was less than would have been expected, remembering that there are over one million pensioners in Australia. 
The reasons for the increased cost of health care are many. In Australia they certainly include a greater expectation on the part of consumers for the use of the latest technology, reinforced by doctors and others with a financial incentive to encourage it. There is also no doubt that most hospital staff- lay, nursing and medical- were until recent years grossly underpaid. This was corrected by strong union pressure and coincided with the introduction of equal pay. It was expensive for hospitals, employing about 75 per cent female staff. The funds and sections of the medical profession are now running campaigns urging the Government to do all kinds of things 'for the sake of the public' and, judging by the illinformed leader writers, they could be successful. Being a pluralist society, with the interests of different groups of doctors and funds not necessarily coinciding, the Government may be able to resist the most flagrant attempts at pressure from these groups to further their own interests. 
At the same time one must not underestimate their political clout in the Liberal and National Country parties. They certainly helped to pay the piper.  Mr John  Mcleay, when he was Acting Minister for Health, said on an  A.M.  broadcast on 4 January in reply to an interviewer's suggestion that contributors would leave the funds for the Medibank levy: 
I personally don't believe that is likely to happen. People go to the funds for special purposes, freedom of choice, etcetera, and they will stay with us, with the private funds. 
So we can see that at least some members of the Government identify with the private funds. This Government lied during the recent election campaign and any remnants of the Prime Minister's credibility have disappeared since then. I claimed during the election campaign that the health funds would increase their charges. The Prime Minister denied this. Let me quote from the transcript of the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  P.M.  of 28 November during the last election campaign. It reads: 
HUW EVANS: The Opposition spokesman  Dr Dick  Klugman has claimed that the Government has been delaying any announcement on increases in health fund contributions until after the election and that the Government will raise the 2.5 per cent levy for standard Medibank.  Dr Klugman  will be with us in our Sydney studio shortly, but first to  Mr Fraser's  Press conference in Hobart and his response to the statement that there would be increases in private health fund contributions. 
-Firstly,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I congratulate you on your recent election to the offices of  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. During the last two or three weeks, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the appointment of a committee to investigate the pecuniary interests of members of Parliament and other persons in similar categories. The point I make tonight is that one of the categories which it is important for us to examine in this investigation into what kind of safeguards should be adopted should include journalists, especially the financial journalists of this country. I am pleased to see the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  in the chamber this evening because at one stage he was a financial journalist. He would be aware of the problems associated with this matter and of the possible advantages that financial journalists could gain from being unscrupulous. I am not suggesting for one minute that the honourable member for Macarthur was an unscrupulous financial journalist. 
I refer to the fact that P &amp; O Australia Limited appeared on the stock exchange lists on 19 January this year. That company was one of the first significant industrial floats for nearly 10 years. The price of the shares was $ 1 .80 each and the lucky investors enjoyed an immediate paper profit of 2 1 per cent, with the first sale of the day at $2.18. Apparently the shares have now stabilised at $2.22. The float has attracted considerable attention amongst the investing public and there was a heavy demand for the issue. The stock was hailed as an attractive investment. For example, the  Bulletin  magazine for which I think the honourable member for Macarthur worked at one stage as a financial journalist, saw considerable merit in the float and has not hesitated to point out to its readers the advantages to be had with P &amp; O. The week before the shares reached the market or were first traded, the  Bulletin  said that net tangible assets worked out at $1.33 for each share. This was well below the issue price of $1.80, but the  Bulletin  suggested that P &amp; O was more likely to be valued on yield than on net tangible assets and it concluded that:  . . . on these figures investors can work out their own arithmetic, but the popular guess down-town is that P &amp; O will come on somewhere around $2.30, which will put them on a yield of just under 7 per cent, or around the same yield as Ansett. 
The  Bulletin  was obviously encouraging people originally to buy the shares but, more importantly at that particular time, to pay a significant amount of money above the issue price of $1.80 for the shares. What actually happened, when one looks at the share lists, was that the editor of the  Bulletin,  Trevor Kennedy, had bought 2,000 of the shares whilst the columnist, David McNicoll had 1,500 of these shares in his portfolio. I think it is wrong- there is a pecuniary interest involved- that people who own shares in a float push that particular float, no matter how justified that pushing might be. It has obviously turned out that the journalist on the  Bulletin  was fairly accurate in his final forecast when he predicted $2.30 a share and they are now $2.22. 
I think it important for everybody concerned that other people, apart from members of Parliament, do not take advantage of special knowledge or special ability to push things when a personal profit is involved. I think it completely wrong for financial journalists to push shares if they own those shares, just as it would be completely wrong for parliamentarians to participate in allotting contracts or whatever to firms in which they have a pecuniary interest. I am sure that  Mr Justice  Bowen will deal with the question of pecuniary interests of members of Parliament. But I also think it is important that the question of journalists in general, and financial journalists specifically, be drawn to his attention. 
I shall quote a little from the letter to emphasise the point that  Mr Fairbairn  makes, namely, the deplorable manner in which the Government was brought down in 1975 and how upset he is about it.  His  letter concluded: 
If the present Prime Minister cannot recognise that something very squalid has taken place- if he remains impervious to the decencies and niceties of constitutional democracy then we are in for a very rough time indeed. 
I emphasise that point. It is important, and hopefully some of the people on the other side, not only of this House but also in politics generally, will realise that there are difficulties associated with the line being taken by the Prime Minister. 
I turn now to the reaction by the Prime Minister to what happened outside the Hilton Hotel approximately three weeks ago. Again I quote from Geoffrey Fairbairn. I ask for leave for his statement which was in the  National Times  on 27 February to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I congratulate the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  on his speech. He certainly did not upset people on this side of the House, although he seems to have upset the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson).  It is a pleasure for me to be sandwiched between the honourable member for McMillan and the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown)  in the sequence of speakers tonight. They are two left wingers, so to speak, of the Liberal Party, and I am usually regarded as one of the right wingers in the Australian Labor Party. 
-Only if we agree. Tonight I should like to take a shotgun type of approach to politics and deal with a number of issues. This is the only time, apart from later in the year when we are speaking on the Budget, that we are able to do this sort of thing. I should like to make a few points. I refer firstly to an interesting phenonemon; that is, the phenomenon of some of the conservative persons in the communitysincere, honest, et cetera, conservative peoplewho have suddenly become disappointed or disgusted with this Government. I refer specifically to  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn who, as many honourable members know, is a reader in history at the Australian National University in Canberra. He conducts a course in the history of revolts and insurgencies and has written books on the subject. He has always been what one would call a right wing intellectual in this country. He has taken an aggressive right wing line, as it is generally considered to be- a conservative line I suppose would be a better term for it. He has demonstrated how upset he has become with this Government, specifically with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the so-called Kerr  issue. I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter by him which was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I thank the House. 
I shall quote from the article. I think the argument that  Mr Fairbairn  puts is very important because it gives the reaction to terrorism in democracies by people who believe in democracy. It also gives the sorts of things that terrorists want people to do. He says that we should not react in the fashion the terrorists want and that it is important not to over-react. Let us look at the aims of terrorists. The picture is most clearly shown at present in West Germany. The terrorists accuse, incorrectly I believe, the West German Government of being a totalitarian government and then say to people in the community: 'What is the difference? You object to us because we take terrorist actions, but what else can we do when we are dealing with a totalitarian government?' There is no totalitarian government in West Germany. There is no totalitarian government in Australia. It is a democracy, and democracies should behave in a certain way when they are dealing with terrorism or attempted terrorism. After dealing with Ireland  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn stated: 
The relevance of this otherwise not very interesting memory I hope 1 can quickly establish: When I began to watch hundreds of uniformed troops being made to regale TVviewers with their absolutely pointless meanderings in and around Bowral I began to ask myself whether the Prime Minister, who appears to have assumed the guiding role, had taken leave of his senses. 
I think that is an important point. I was driving to Canberra that Tuesday evening after the Hilton bombing. I passed about 50 armoured personnel carriers and masses of trucks at night. It was a completely pointless exercise. I point out the relevance of this article. I again quote from  Mr Fairbairn  's article. He continued: 
That not being very probable, I began to ask myself whether the Government had permitted the growth of some vast organisation of terrorists, which as a result of brilliant penetrative and surveillant and intelligence activities they were about to smash- and thereby make the governments of the still comparatively civilised world their eternal debtors. 
It was not that; it was a misuse of the Army. It was what  Mr Fairbairn  called the rogue elephant approach, a completely unnecessary one. I hope that the honourable member for Holt will agree with me when I finish quoting from the article by Geoffrey Fairbairn. I feel that his behaviour in this House shows that probably he is closer to the wavelength of Geoffrey Fairbairn, whom I know, than are many other people here. The article stated: 
The saying of our time- 'one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter'- is altogether pernicious so far as a constitutional democracy is concerned. 
We can accept the proposition that in a totalitarian regime people may have to take up arms or use terrorist activity to get rid of a particular government. In a democracy that is not necessary. If a government can persuade the people that it is right, that is the line to take. The article also stated: 
People who engage in politically motivated violence in a democracy are criminals and they should be regarded as such- and therefore the Army should never, never, never be brought out to deal with them. 
That is the point  Mr Fairbairn  is making. I think it is important. We must continually emphasise to people that these terrorists are criminals who should be dealt with by the police force. The only time the Army should be used is for specific purposes. If some hostages needed to be freed or something of that sort maybe the Army would be needed. Again I quote from Geoffrey Fairbairn 's article. It stated: 
Above all, it is absolutely necessary to realise what the terrorist (a criminal in a democracy, I must repeat) is really after. He is first of all after publicity: In some ways he is a creature as well as an exploiter of satellite TV. As an expert, Brian Jenkins of RAND, once put it, 'terrorism is a psychological warfare. It is theatre '. 
The terrorists can never win in a constitutional democracy, provided that the leaders of democracies stick to their lastthat is, behave according to the democratic mode of behaviour Never break its unspoken rules themselves and treat terrorists as criminals. 
What democratic leaders must never do is to break the rules themselves and give the impression, however inadvertently perhaps, that because a bomb has gone off- a bomb about which nothing at all seems to be known as to its provenance- it is permissible to declare a local state of seige and thereafter cash in politically on that word terrorism . . . 
Referring to the behaviour of terrorists, going on to Yugoslavs or terrorism that happened in Australia allegedly arising out of the Yugoslav position, he concludes by saying: .  . that this kind of revolutionary criminality is far, far too serious a business to be left to . . . our Prime Minister who does not seem to understand that the primary objective of any kind of terrorist is precisely to precipitate the type of over-reaction we saw last week in Sydney. 
I think they are important points that we have to consider and if the Parliament does not consider those sorts of points then I do not know who will. It is up to us to emphasise that we are living in a democracy, that we are living in a constitutional democracy and that people who take violent means to try to change the democracy- and we have no evidence that in fact that was the purpose of the bombing outside the Hilton, but let us assume it was- should be dealt with as common criminals. That is how they should be dealt with. 
May I relieve the seriousness of my address at this stage and refer to what I enjoyed as an interesting advertisement during the week after 10 or 11 December last year. There was an advertisement in the travelling pages of a newspaper. I cannot remember whether it was the  Sydney Morning Herald  or the  Age.  The advertisement was headed 'Sick of elections? Come to China'. It was an advertisement for people to travel to China. I think it is one of the important points that we have to remember that we are different from those sons of countries. 
I would now like to get on to another issue which I consider to be important, and that is the issue that has arisen in South Australia. The point I want to refer to is the importance to have police forces under the control of governments. I will quote from the transcript of an interview on the  Willesee at 7  show on 20 January 1978.  Mr Salisbury,  as honourable members will remember, was the Commissioner of Police who had been dismissed by the South Australian Government. Having denied that he had any responsibility to the State Government, he was asked by the reporter: 
So you're responsible primarily firstly to someone other that the State Government that hires you? 

 Mr Salisbury: In that situation my interpretation is yes I am, I am actually responsible to the Crown. 
Then there was a discussion on just what that means and the reporter asked him: 
So you don 't see that you are responsible to the South Australian Government? 

 Mr Salisbury replied: 
It's very difficult to answer a question like that in brief. This is something that needs analysing and I am not going to say that I am not responsible to the government. I am responsible to the government, with certain qualifications, but I am not subordinate to a politically elected government. 
Hopefully we have only politically elected governments in this country and hopefully we will continue to have only politically elected governments in this country. I think that is the important issue there. Somehow he believes that he is responsible to some type of authority provided it has not been politically elected. I think that is an important issue to raise in this House. 
Again, on a completely different tack, I would like to refer to an issue which allegedly is peculiar to New South Wales. I am glad that the 
Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is sitting at the table because he was prominent in New South Wales governments over a number of years. Whilst in those years New South Wales did not have any starting price betting, SP betting has come in again since the party he supported lost office. I would like to refer to the hypocrisy of a radio station in New South Wales called 2UE which has been running a campaign attacking SP betting- saying that it ought to be wiped out, it is a terrible thing and that the station has evidence that SP betting exists. Station 2UE is one of the stations in Sydney which broadcasts the races. I am a keen racing man and I often listen to them. They go to a lot of trouble to give listeners the Totalisator Agency Board prices, the prices on the tote and the prices with the bookmakers at any particular time. The stations broadcast the prices less than 10 minutes before the start of a race whereas betting on the TAB in New South Wales closes 10 minutes before the start and you have no chance of getting a bet on with the TAB after that time. Obviously the only purpose in broadcasting the prices- and I am thankful for the stations doing this- is for the benefit of those people who want to bet SP, and of course the stations make a profit out of the advertising associated with race broadcasts. I have no objection to the service the stations provide. I am pleased with the service that this station provides but I do object to the hypocrisy on the part of its news department which goes around saying what a terrible thing it is that there is SP betting in New South Wales. 
While I am dealing with hypocrisy I would like to deal with Fred Nile's Senate team for New South Wales. Appropriately enough  Mr Reuben  Scarf was No. 2 on that Senate team. I have a copy of the advertisement which reads: 'You get three votes for one when you vote for Fred Nile's Senate Team'. I suppose it is like people getting three suits for the price of one, I think it was and a shirt, et cetera, tossed in. This is the whole tenor of the advertisement, and I quote from it: 
Your vote for the Fred Nile Senate Team will let the ruling party know the 'silent majority' of decent Australians support good standards and reject legalised brothels, incest, sodomy, et=, and the permissive views of Don Chipp (Little Red School Book),  Mr Billington's  marijuana party and others. 
So apparently the team is very strong on those particular issues. The advertisement then sets out a how-to-vote guide. The advertisement suggests that if a voter is voting for the Fred Nile Senate team and supports the Liberal-Country Party he should vote 1, 2 and 3 for the Fred Nile Senate team, then vote 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 for Chipp's team and then vote 26, 27 and 28 for what the advertisement calls 'Whitlam's Team', in other words, the Australian Labor Party's team. That is to say, even though Fred Nile's Senate team is terribly upset by Don Chipp it still puts him a long way ahead of the ALP. On the other hand if a voter wanted to vote for the Fred Nile team and the Labor Party the advertisement suggests the voter should vote 1, 2, 3 for Nile, Scarf and Judge, then vote 26, 27 and 28 for the marihuana team and 29, 30 and 31 for what the advertisement calls 'Fraser's Team', in other words, the Liberal-Country Party team. So whilst Fred Nile's Senate team seems very strong on the question of marihuana and on the question of permissiveness, et cetera, it does not seem to affect its actual advice as to how people should vote. The advertisement still put the marijuana team and what it calls the  Little Red School Book  team ahead of the established political parties. What utter hypocrisy on the part of a team which calls itself a Christian team. 
I would like to conclude tonight by quoting from a supplement called the  Sunday Argus  which is distributed as a supplement to the  Sunday Telegraph  in the western area of Sydney. It gave a large amount of space last Sunday to a Philip Henry Jeffery who is aged 89. 1 know that the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  is tonight at some function being held in honour of  Mr Philip  Jeffery who, as the supplement points out, has always been closely associated with conservative politics and through the years has been a close friend of every conservative member of parliament representing the Parramatta district and those in other areas in the western region. As a result of an interview with  Mr Jeffery-  and I think this is the important point in the interview- the report states: 
The world was a different, much better place, even in relatively recent times as 1 948, in  Mr Jeffery  's view. 'Dreadful things are happening today,' he says. 'I suppose a lot of it has been occasioned by the immigration- by people coming here. ' 
That was said by  Mr Phillip  Henry Jeffery, the adviser to the Liberal Party in the outer western area of Sydney. No wonder the Liberals do not do very well there in elections. 
I have not dealt with all the points with which I wanted to deal but let me just mention the socalled Constitutional Security Movement which was set up in New South Wales in order to defeat the referendum on the upper House. The members of the Movement felt very strongly about the referendum. It was run by a chap called Valder. He certainly should have been associated with something called a security movement because he was previously the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange and he did not do anything for the people who had invested in securities. So then he formed what he called the Constitutional Security Movement. It is interesting to note that once the Liberal Party and the Labor Party came to a deal on the ques.ton of the upper House the Constitutional Security Movement went underground. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to make a couple of comments on the speech of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  He raises the question of the alleged lack of skilled workers- people who are trained and who then get out of their skilled trade. I should think that the reasons for that are varied. Obviously one of the main reasons is that in our society generally people do not like working for a boss. If they get the opportunity or if they think they can see an opportunity of not working for somebody but of becoming self-employed and, on top of that, possibly making a fortune, they grab it. Many of them are not really qualified to go into business and we see time and again people becoming building contractors - 
Land developers, service station operators or contractors buying trucks. They see advertisements in the newspapers for the sale of trucks for a certain amount of money a week. About three or four times that large amount of money in profit is allegedly guaranteed each week. That is all right, as long as the truck is working, there is no break down, nothing goes wrong, and they get the load. As soon as they miss out on loads or the truck breaks down, they are in real strife. I think the same sort of situation applies to other people who go into business. We have heard figures cited in that regard. I cannot give them tonight off the top of my head. Some make it and they get very carried away by the private enterprise system. They praise it in letters to the newspapers and so on. They say that everybody can make it. But many do not make it; they go bankrupt and some of them, I assume, go back to their original trades. 
Since we are debating the Governor-General's Speech, might I say that it was a terrible speech. It was written, of course, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I shall read to the House something written by a group which normally supports the Prime Minister and his Government. The  Sun-Herald  said: 
The Governor-General's Speech in opening Parliament was inordinately long and dismally standpat in its economic content. 1 think that is a fair summary. There was nothing in it; there was nothing to it. It did not say anything, but it went on and on. I felt sorry for the Governor-General for having to deliver that Speech. 
I think one of the points about the Government which is slowly coining across to the Australian population at large- from our point of view it is obviously coming across too slowly and hopefully from the Government's point of view too quickly- is that a government which is not honest, a government which behaves in a very peculiar fashion. Even people with a conservative outlook who are satisfied with society as it is are beginning to be puzzled about just what is going on. Obviously a significant number of them became aware of the dishonesty of the Government in relation to the issue with which I was concerned, namely, increased health levies and contribution rates following the election. We predicted that those rates would increase. The Government denied that. The Prime Minister specifically denied that they would go up. Of course, they have gone up by approximately 40 per cent. I think that sort of happening does make an impact upon the Australian population. 
-I will come back to that later. Other people who support the Government also have become disillusioned. I shall quote again- I have quoted him before- Geoffrey Fairbairn who is a conservative gentleman from this town with all the right credentials, as far as the conservative parties are concerned. In a letter published in the  Age  on 12 February- that was when Kerr had been appointed to the job at the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation- he said: 
The almost unbelievable squalidness of the Kerr appointment dramatically reveals the bankruptcy of conservatism in Australia. The Prime Minister of this country is quite clearly a mountebank - 
He then quotes the definition from the Shorter Oxford Dictionary- 
An itinerant quack who from a platform appealed to his audience by means of stories, tricks, juggling, and the like, often with the assistance of a clown ' . . . 
I do not know who the clown is, but I suppose he is referring to Kerr. Geoffrey Fairbairn goes on to say: 
One is tempted to quip about what  Mr Fraser  will do now that his terribly sad clown has gone to UNESCO. But the total lack of fastidiousness, nay, ordinary human decencythe utter lack of any sense of propriety-displayed on this occasion by the Prime Minister is altogether unamusing, since by his outrageous conduct  Mr Fraser  has acted far more deeply subversively (using that word in its proper sense) than any politically subversive group could do. 
He has dishonoured the most deep-seated ideas of Australian decency, ideas that still beautifully transcend party political allegiences; in his spoilt-boy arrogance he has struck at what makes a nation of us. 
So far as I am concerned- and I am only an ordinary conservative citizen of no importance whatever-  Mr Fraser  is a walking and talking disaster area for the future of this country. I can only hope that other conservatives realise this. 
Some did. The centre page of the  Sunday Telegraph  of 5 March featured a story about Kerr resigning or 'being resigned' from UNESCO. The centre page is written by somebody calling himself Cassandra. It usually contains just pure Liberal Party propaganda. That writer said: 
The appointment of  Sir John  Kerr as Ambassador to UNESCO has finally been seen for what it really was- political hypocrisy. 
I have defended the right of  Sir John  to make the constitutional decision he did in 1973 but the government-inspired appointment to an ambassadorial post is to be deplored. 
It would be too simple to say that  Sir John  had done the right thing by resigning the post. 
History and time will tell if Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser made a deal for  Sir John  to step down, and if he knew  Sir John  intended to resign as UNESCO ambassador. 
The article goes on: 
It seems clear that Fraser made a mistake- and that's putting it kindly- when he announced the appointment. But more interesting is the resignation. It is a clear recognition by  Sir John  that the appointment was being seen as a pay-off. 
It's rare that Fraser backs down, but I'm prepared to bet he went to water on this issue. 
So we see that some of the conservative people in this society are becoming disappointed with the behaviour of the Government. The Government's behaviour during this IBM-Facom dispute on computers clearly indicates one point that is, that the Prime Minister is obviously taking much more note of one of the competitors for this particular contract than he is of the other. For whatever reason, I think this is depressing. I accept IBM 's statement that it has not kicked in any money to the Liberal Party. But what it has on the Prime Minister, I do not know. We know that the Prime Minister has made deals previously with very shady characters. I am not suggesting that IBM is shady. All honourable members will remember that one of the closest business associates of the Prime Minister was 
Kenneth Gale of Gollin Holdings Ltd. He provided the people who provided the policy for the Prime Minister when he was on the front bench in Opposition. We now know that John Spender Q.C, who was appointed, I think, by the previous Liberal Government in New South Wales to investigate the position, is now, I think- the honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Carlton)  will correct me if I am wrongPresident of the New South Wales Branch of the Liberal Party. 
-I thought he was elected President. Anyway, he has fairly good credentials in the Liberal Party. He has pointed out that Gale rooked not only others but also his own company. 
Surely the sort of behaviour on the part of the Prime Minister about which I am speaking must be covered by paragraph (3) of the amendment which reads:  leaves serious uncertainty about the progress of the Australian economy; 
-The situation is that people have tendered for a contract under the terms of the tender documents which were originally asked for and then those tenders were revoked by the Prime Minister, contrary to the advice that he received from Cabinet, contrary to the advice that he received from the Public Service. He then went on to set new tender specifications, and we all know the specific technical areas required for the new tenders. The need for new tenders arose out of a suggestion by the Managing Director of IBM,  Mr A.  G. Moyes, who wanted those particular matters included in the new tendering documents. All I can say, and the point I am trying to make, is that a large number of people in this community are now becoming very suspicious of the members of the Government, about their behaviour, about the reasons for their behaviour. The credibility gap is widening very significantly. Hopefully that situation will remain for the rest of the term of the Government. 
I wish to raise quickly a point arising out of the report on the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study which is expected in the near future, namely, a new airport for Sydney. I am one of those who is not convinced that a new airport is necessary. If there is to be a new airport, why should it be placed in the south-western or western area of Sydney? It is quite clear that most people using the airport in Sydney reside in the eastern suburbs or on the North Shore. There has been a statement recently to the effect that somebody is starting a helicopter service to whisk North Shore businessmen over Sydney's traffic congestion to Mascot Airport. Surely that indicates that this new airport should be built somewhere on the North Shore or somewhere close to the North Shore. A site at Duffys Forest has been suggested previously. I am not an expert on airports but possibly an airport there could take some of the load from Sydney Airport. 
I should like to deal now with a question of more immediate concern which has been raised by  Mr Jack  Cade, General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia.  Mr Cade  has alleged that a large number of private hospitals are robbing Medibank Private and other private health funds by charging for days that patients had not spent in the private hospitals. This is a specific allegation made by  Mr Cade.  Are the police investigating that allegation? We hear a lot about doctors defrauding the health funds and Medibank. This particular case cannot be a fraud perpetrated on Medibank Public; it can only be a fraud perpetrated on Medibank Private if it involves the private hospitals because under Medibank Public people are not insured for private hospital care. But allegedly it is a fraud perpetrated on Medibank Private and it is a fraud perpetrated on the other health funds. It is also a fraud perpetrated on the revenue paid out by this Government because the Government pays $16 a day subsidy towards the cost of everybody who is in a private hospital. If those hospitals in fact are rendering accounts to the health funds for days which the patients did not spend in those private hospitals, surely the Commonwealth Police or the State police should be asked to interview  Mr Cade,  to find out from him the specific allegations, which private hospitals are involved and whether something is being done. Obviously a significant amount of money is involved. 
In passing, I am pleased to note that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has now become worried about his back bench colleagues. They have been yapping at his heels. They believed the propositions which the Government had been putting forward previously about the increase in health care costs being due to 
Medibank. Government supporters did not know much about the matter and apparently decided to have a go at the Minister for Health in Caucus. The Minister for Health has now said that Medibank has nothing to do with the situation. I should like to quote part of an interview of the Minister for Health by  Mr Jeff  Duncan of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as broadcast on  PM  on 23 February 1 978: 
Jeff Duncan:  Mr Hunt  how do you substantiate your claim that the health costs, spiralling health costs, are due to Medibank alone? 

 Mr Hunt: I am not claiming that at all. I have never blamed Medibank as such for the great escalation in health costs. 
I should like to emphasise that point for the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  who seems to be one of the people who believes that spiralling health costs are due to Medibank alone. The interview goes on: 

 Mr Hunt: ... we have witnessed the greatest explosion in health costs in Australia they having exploded by 73 per cent in two years. 
Jeff Duncan: Why is that because of Medibank? 

 Mr Hunt: Well lam not saying it is because of Medibank. 
That is the important point to emphasise. Let me just repeat what I have said before in this House: In the year before Medibank was introduced, health costs increased by 36.8 per cent. In the year after Medibank was introduced, the rate of increase dropped to 27 per cent. I am not suggesting that 27 per cent is a good figure to aim for but it is certainly a lot better than 36.8 per cent. It is important for us to remember that health care costs to the community have been increasing at a very great rate. But those costs have nothing to do with Medibank. Medibank is involved with the question of how to pay for those costs. It is not involved with the question of what the costs are in total. 
I was given a copy of this paper only a couple of hours ago. It is my intention to commence my remarks and then to ask for leave to continue them at a later stage when this matter again comes up for debate. So I shall commence my remarks at this stage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
How many persons were in receipt of (a) an invalid pension, (b) sickness benefits and (c) unemployment benefits as at (i) 30 June 1975, (ii) 31 December 1975 (iii) 30 June 1976, (iv) 31 December 1976, (v) 30 June 1977 and (vi) 31 December 1977. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen a claim by  Mr Cade,  the General Manager of Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd, that private hospitals are defrauding private health funds, including Medibank Private, by charging for days patients did not spend in the hospitals? Are these allegations being investigated by State or Commonwealth police? If not, why not? 
-This paper was presented to the House on 15 March. Because the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  spoke at some length on that day summarising the paper and providing some options, I took the opportunity to speak immediately after he had spoken. This is a disadvantage now because it means that I have only five minutes to speak on this paper after having read it. When I spoke on 15 March I had not had the opportunity to have a good look at the paper. I wish to reiterate a couple of points. The first is that, from a political point of view, it is terribly important to realise that whilst Medibank is considered to be a big issue, it is not the main issue so far as health costs are concerned. It is silly to blame Medibank. I have given the House the figures before, and they appear again in this paper. The year before Medibank was introduced the increase in health care costs in Australia was 36.8 per cent. The year after Medibank was introduced the rate of increase dropped to 27 per cent. I am not suggesting that 27 per cent is a good rate of increase, but the point I am making is that long before Medibank was introduced there was a significant increase in health care costs. The Minister has, of course, acknowledged this fairly recently. 
The second point is that there were large increases in payments for medical rebates the year before Medibank was introduced. There was an increase of 5 1 per cent in that year in the amount paid out by private funds, and the private funds were the only ones insuring. It is important for us to remember that by altering Medibank or by altering fund payments we do not necessarily affect total health care expenditure. I think many honourable members would like to affect that expenditure, but I am not convinced that health care expenditure is excessive although I agree that it is excessive for what we get in return. I do not necessarily agree that health care expenditure ought to be less than the 7.5 per cent of the gross domestic product that it has now reached in Australia. Excellent arguments can be put that if anything it ought to be higher, but I do not have time to go into that today. 
The important point is that there are three basic methods of payment for health care. These are direct payments by the patient at the time of receiving the service, payment by contribution to insurance schemes which basically spread the risk over a larger number of people in the community or over the whole community and, finally, through taxation by which some patients pay more and some patients pay less, depending on their incomes. Most of the debate in Australia over the last few years basically has been on the mix of those methods of payment. Inasmuch as those methods of payment affect the actual quality and efficiency of health care delivery it is important to argue about them. Otherwise I do not think it is important to argue about them. It is much more important to argue about the methods of improving health care delivery and improving the effectiveness of health care delivery, and I am pleased to say that the Minister at least and, hopefully, members of the Cabinet now realise that blaming Medibank is not the solution to the problem. Obviously what happened was that the back bench believed the propaganda during the election campaign that all our troubles and the high cost of health care were caused by Medibank. Therefore, they came to the obvious, simple solution that they would abolish Medibank completely and that would be the solution to the problem. Of course that is not true, never has been true and the Minister now agrees with me on that point. 
In the two minutes that I have left to me I want to draw the attention of the House to Appendix HI of the paper. Appendix III deals with a national health insurance project and what ought to be done before any changes are made. It is important to remember that we should not make any changes until we have information about the possible effect of those changes. Appendix III states: 
A3.1 There is very little analysis available in Australia or elsewhere, to tell us what possible effects different health insurance proposals would have on costs, on our usage of health care, on the available supply of beds and doctors or on our 'health'. Thus the first gap is a detailed analysis of each proposal to enable policymakers to make informed choices. They should know: how those arrangements increase or decrease the use of different services or the quality of the services provided: and how the use of these services ultimately affects 'health '. 
A3.2 We do not have any comprehensive data to tell us what is the 'best' type of health insurance system, and the best' possible method of paying doctors, and the 'best' method of financing hospitals and other community health services. A health insurance project would seek and analyse the needed data on all three aspects. 
A3.3 In most nations, until about the early 1970s, the general tendency has been for governments to initiate a new program, or change an old program, without any detailed analysis of the likely consequences of the change. 
Let us hope that this Government will not decide to initiate new programs or change the program significantly without knowing what is happening.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I do not have much more time to speak, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the rest of Appendix III, which is only two pages. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

A3.4 A national health insurance experiment (or project) would attempt to find answers to the following critical questions: 
What is the effect on the individual and the families of health insurance arrangements which require them to pay a larger or smaller pan of the bill for health care, either at the point of contact, or in a higher percentage of the total bill? In particular, how does it affect their usage of different types of health care (e.g., hospitals, doctors' office visits, domiciliary care, self-care and so on )? 
How would any changes affect the supply of these services? Would doctors work less, charge patients more or order tests more discriminately? Would the changes lead to more hospital beds, more nursing home beds and less of other services? Would it affect the workloads of doctors in particular communities or in certain specialties? 
How would these changes affect the health of the population? Can we develop a health insurance program which positively affects health by giving people access to new prevention programs or rewards them for "good healthy living habits? In other words, can we develop an effective Health Protection Plan rather than an insurance plan? 
What effect would any alternative scheme have on the costs of administration of private health insurance funds, Medibank, or other government departments (for example, Taxation)? Would it require new forms, new accounting systems, new records systems, larger computers and more claims processors? 
How will any proposed changes affect the quality of medical care received by people? Will it cause doctors to offer less treatment? Will hospitals be able to acquire needed equipment? 
A3.5 The steps involved in a Health Insurance Project might include the following: 
selection of a random sample of Australian families who would be eligible to participate; 
offering of a number of Experimental Plans to these families, with each plan having a different combination of copayments, coinsurance rates and maximum expense limits. Some of the Plans might include enrolling the families in any Prepaid Health Plans that were then in existence, or even creating some; 
families enrolled in each of the Experimental Plans would submit claims (or medical expense reports) to the Project just as they would submit claims to a private health insurance company. The Project would pay these claims. The enrolled families would also be required to submit biweekly health reports to the project, i.e., brief questionnaires that collect information on use of health care, self-perceived health status of the family and other indicators. 
A3.6 There would be a need for a Project Team, to be involved in pre-enrolment interviews, enrolment and postenrolment interviews and surveys. The pre-enrolment phase would include a baseline interview of a large sample of families, with selection into the Health Insurance Project being on the basis of the information they report in the baseline interview. This method ensures that roughly equal numbers are enrolled in each of the Experimental Plans offered. 
A3.7 The cost of the HIP would depend on how many Experimental Plans would be evaluated, how large a sample of individuals and families would be enrolled in the different Experimental Plans and the duration of the experiments. It is anticipated than an evaluation of the effects of the most feasible alternative Experimental Plans (perhaps 5 in number) could be completed within 18-24 months. A sample of up to 1,000 families would be adequate for such a project. Preliminary estimates suggest that the unit cost of each family's enrolment in the project would be the sum of the average premiums paid for health insurance at the moment plus whatever additional benefits are included in each Experimental Plan. In addition there would be costs of administering the project through the Projects Team. 
-I draw the attention of those people who are interested in health care financing to those proposals and to the vast gaps in our present knowledge. We cannot come to a reasonable decision without filling those gaps. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a common practice for Australian diplomats, other Australian Government officials and aid personnel in Indonesia to import cars for personal use duty-free. 
) Is it a fact that because of the administrative problems in expediting these imported vehicles through Indonesian ports, Australian officials often arrange for private Indonesian companies to handle all of the administrative details involved. 
Can he say whether one of the main functions that these private Indonesian companies perform is the paying of bribes to Indonesian Customs officials and other Indonesian officials involved in the process. 
Are payments made by Australian officials posted in Indonesia to private Indonesian companies which handle the importing of cars for personal use, (a) tax deductible, or, (b) reimbursed or subsidised by the Australian Government in anyway. 
What is the attitude of the Australian Government on the matter of illicit payments by Australian Government officials on overseas postings. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 March 1 978: 
Has the Hospitals and Health Services Commission investigated the need for a hospital in the Fairfield area of New South Wales. 
) If not, will it do so urgently. 
If the Commission has investigated the matter, has it recommended fundings under the Hospitals Development Program. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
With reference to his answer to question No. 1 109  (Hansard,  14 September 1977, page 1 154), in obtaining the estimate of $25m for the net cost to the Commonwealth of including patients in acute psychiatric hospitals under the Medibank cost-sharing arrangements, what was (a) his estimate of the number of beds involved and (b) the average bed day cost in each State. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
When was the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Dual Nationality tabled in the House of Representatives. 
What does the Government propose to do about its recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Who are the members of the National Health Services Advisory Committee. 
) Are they appointed as individuals or as representatives of organisations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Has he registered the Australian Medical Association (NSW) Health Fund Ltd as a registered medical and hospital benfits organisation; if so, does that Fund provide that each contributor have full voting rights. 
) Is the AMA very heavily represented on the Council of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. 
Does the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia provide any voting rights for contributors; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) Did he say in reply to my question No. 28  (Hansard,  5 May 1977, page 1673) that the Government and EFIC are currently studying international developments in relation to illicit payments in connection with trade transactions with a view to determining future policy in this area. 
If so, what progress has been made to date in formulating a policy on this matter. 
When does the Government expect to be in a position to announce a policy. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
What is the consumption per person annually of acetylsalicyclic acid and compound analgesics, commonly used for self medication, in Australia and each Australian State for which figures are available. 
Is he able to provide the corresponding figures for (a) the United States of America and (b) European countries. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
Are there any figures available showing the number of deaths caused by lung cancer in uranium miners working (a) underground and (b) in open cut mines in (i) the U.S.A., (ii) Canada, (iii) South Africa, (iv) the U.S.S.R. and (v) Czechoslovakia. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen the statement by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australian Ltd that it will not pay benefits to persons attending clinics in the Cook Islands? Without wishing in any way to encourage persons to go to the Cook Islands for treatment, I ask: Is it not a fact that the Health Insurance Act provides that benefits are payable for Australian residents attending qualified medical practitioners who are recognised in the country where the treatment is received? Is this not part of the basic package which must be covered by the private funds? Will the Minister either amend the legislation to prevent cover by all funds or insist that the Medical Benefits Fund cannot evade obligations placed on it under the Act? 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
1 ) What is the present delay in providing artificial limbs at each of the Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres. 
) What is the delay in the case of 'Canadian hips '. 
3 ) What is the reason for these delays. 
I oppose the motion on this basis: The papers which have been tabled and which it is now proposed should be printed and published by this Parliament as I understand it comprise 120 pages. They were tabled in the Queensland Parliament. The Premier of Queensland brought  Mr Milan  Brych to Brisbane. The only reason the Federal Parliament has been asked to publish the papers is that there was then an argument between the Government parties inside the Queensland Cabinet. The Queensland Minister for Health has tabled the papers in the Queensland Parliament. He cannot obtain permission to publish them in Queensland. Why should the Commonwealth pay for this? It is the Premier of that State who has got us into this trouble. The supporters of the Premier now say that he needs psychiatric treatment. I reached that conclusion some time ago. 
If the Queensland Government wants to publish those papers, by all means let the Queensland Government do so. But why should we give more publicity to this man who is a charlatan and who is accepted to be a charlatan. Why should we have to pay for this action? The cost involved in printing a booklet on this matter must be quite significant. We are getting ourselves involved in an argument between groups of Ministers in the Queensland Government. Surely we should not take sides in that argument or, if we do take sides, surely the Commonwealth Government should not have to pay for this printing. Why should the taxpayers of Australia become involved in this charade? We have already had the spectacle of  Sir Reginald  Ansett supplying aircraft to fly voters back from New 
Zealand at a cost of $20 a head to vote for the present Premier so  Mr Milan  Brych can continue his work on the Cook Islands and no doubt our tax payers are paying for this. The position is becoming quite ridiculous. We are dealing with people who generally are affected with a terminal carcinoma of some kind. These people are being hoodwinked- at least some of them areinto going to the Cook Islands. But surely we should not give publicity to this man so that more people will become involved in the argument. 
The whole point is that only one prominent person, the Premier of Queensland, is keen to start this man off in Australia. The Premier wants to open a clinic for him. He has plenty of money. We have seen in the Press today and yesterday that he is able to raise significant amounts of money personally, quite apart from money which might be provided by the Government. If he has that sort of money let him start a clinic in Queensland, and if he can get registered medical practitioners to work - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health and follows his answer earlier in Question Time to the question of the honourable member for Wide Bay. He pointed out that from now pensioners in nursing homes no longer will be able to keep $7 a week from their pensions but will have the great benefit of being able to keep  W/i  per cent of their pension. Is it not a fact that pensioners with a pension rate of $49.30 will now keep $6. 1 5 a week instead of $7- so the Government in fact is decreasing the retention allowance- and that when the pension increases the amount retained will increase by only 20c a week? 
-The Opposition has raised this matter of public importance because it believes that the Australian community as a whole has been lulled into a false sense of security by the discussion paper on paying for health care which was presented in this House on, I think, 15 March. We debated the paper a couple of weeks later. According to information we have received in fact another paper has been prepared and presented to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who is, of course, very keen to impose quite significant changes on the present method of health care finance, and secret decisions have already been made by the Prime Minister, by  Mr John  Stone from Treasury and by  Dr Sax,  formerly of the Department of Health. The proposition which has been accepted by the Prime Minister- and knowing the Prime Minister the proposition will undoubtedly be imposed on the Government- is the introduction of what are called front-end deductibles, the abolition of bulk billing and a forced rise in hospital charges. I am most concerned with the question of front-end deductibles. 
My source of information is the committee of which the honourable member is  chairman.  I know that that committee is unhappy about some of the decisions which have obviously been made by the Prime Minister. I hope that with the help of members of that committee, and with the help of such organisations as the Australian Medical Association and the health funds, there will still be time to persuade the Prime Minister, even if he wants to go ahead with the things he wants to do, that he ought to v/ait and see just what kind of information is available to support the changes he intends to introduce. We know and I think the Minister for 
Health  (Mr Hunt)  knows that insufficient statistical information is available to indicate just what will happen. 
I shall outline the proposals for the benefit of those honourable members who have not followed the discussion on health care costs to the same extent as others. On the subject of front end deductibles the Government will say to the funds- this would certainly include Medibank Private and possibly Medibank- that contributors will have to pay the first $50 or $100 of their medical expenses. The contributors will not get a refund of the first $50 or $100. The reason why I am giving those alternative figures is that I do not think the Government has made up its mind whether the amount will be applied on a contributor basis or to the individual member of a family. 
I think this is a completely wrong approach to the whole subject of health care and health care financing. The approach is wrong from an economic point of view. It will mean that there would be a financial disincentive to would be patients to seek early advice to prevent expensive and debilitating fully established physical or psychiatric illnesses from occurring. I think of the checks for diabetes, hypertension, glaucoma, breast cancer, Papanicolou smears for cervical cancer, immunisation and all the other kinds of preventive medicine that we encourage from an economic and medical point of view. The introduction of anything that will discourage people from taking advantage of those aspects of preventive medicine is wrong. The proposal would discourage families from seeking advice about early symptoms. It would especially discourage the poor families and the large families which are being maintained on a comparatively low income. If these people were told that instead of being able to receive medical treatment for a couple of dollars per consultation, as they can at present, or for nothing in those cases where the doctor is bulk billing they would have to pay $8, $9, $ 12 or $ 14, depending on whether the treatment was charged as a consultation or a visit and depending on the State in which they reside they may decide that a visit is not necessary. These amounts of money are relatively large for those people. 
I remember what happened when I was in medical practice and I was dealing with children suffering from measles or some other common complaint. Measles is the most obvious example. The vast majority of children with measles will recover from that condition and no specific treatment is necessary. A proportion of children will have complications, such a chest infections, ear infections and possibly encephalitis. But it is wrong to put the onus on the mother or father of the child to decide whether to have that child completely checked at the appropriate time and pay $10 or $14 for that to be done. As I suggested earlier, that is a significant proportion of the total amount of money going into certain families. A large number of people will wrongly decide- I emphasise the words 'wrongly decide'- that they will not obtain treatment for a child. The child may then contract a significant chest infection, such as pneumonia. I know this happens only in occasional cases. It may reach the stage of bronchiectasis We know that a large number of children with that disease suffered firstly from one of the relatively minor virus diseases of childhood, of which measles is one of the most common. The Government ought to think very carefully and ought to obtain advice from those who have some medical knowledge before it permits this type of change to the system. 
I am speaking not only on behalf of the Opposition but also, I think, on behalf of other organisations. I was pleased to receive from the Australian Medical Association, which does not often agree with me, a statement which arose from its Federal Council meeting which concluded on 1 April. The summary of the statement reads: 
There is no 'crisis ' in health care spending in the sense that the situation is out of control. 
I will not quote the whole of the statement. I will quote it selectively. It continues: 
There is not yet sufficient detailed information about how Medibank Mark II is working to justify a further major overhaul of health insurance arrangements at the present time. 
That is the point I made when discussing the original paper presented on health care financing. The AMA went to say: 
Changes introduced without adequate information could be disastrous. 
In particular, no change should be made in health insurance arrangements which would discourage access to general practitioners, who provide the least costly, most widely used health services to the community. 'Front end deductibles' and other limitations on the payment of benefits would largely destroy the purpose of health insurance and should be resisted. 
The statement finishes with a threat which hopefully will have an effect on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his attempt to ride roughshod over the advice he is receiving from the Department of Health. Referring to cooperation between the AMA and the Government the statement concluded: 
But co-operation will become increasingly difficult if the present basic type of health insurance scheme, which has  received the support of the AMA since before 1953, should suddenly be virtually dismantled. 
I hope the AMA will continue in this vein and will let this Government and especially the Prime Minister know that the front end deductible proposition which has been accepted by the Prime Minister is not a suitable way of dealing with any problem that may exist. The Government has the problem of balancing its Budget. The Prime Minister believes that this is the most important thing to this country. The burden should not fall on the sick of this country. 
Let us look briefly at the important issue of health care costs. Basically, health care costs are shared in three ways by the community. Payment can be made by the individual patients attending doctors or receiving treatment in hospitals and so on. Payment can be covered by insurance where a patient insures himself privately and thereby distributes the risk amongst other insured people. In that case the insurance company pays for the treatment. Thirdly, treatment can be paid for by governments. Basically, such payments are made by the Commonwealth Government but in some cases they are made by the Commonwealth and State  governments.  But, after all, the State governments receive most of their money from the Commonwealth Government. The Government is attempting to move the cost of health care across to private sources. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have prepared dealing with the proportion of health care costs paid by Commonwealth, State and local government and private sources in the pre-Medibank years, during the one year- 1975- 76- that Medibank was in operation and the first year of post-Medibank, that is, 1 976-77. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197804114_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

I also seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows payments for health care from private sources in the current year and the previous two years. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Payments for Health Care from private sources- $m 
1975- 76......... 1,218 
1976- 77......... 1,976 
1977- 78......... 2,200 (estimate) 
-The table shows that the amount of money coming from private sources has increased from $l,218m in 1975-76 to an estimated $2,200m in this financial year. More than $ 1,000m of the cost has been transferred to private sources during the last two years. I put it to the House that there is no way of setting a level of deductibles which would act as a deterrent without resulting in substantial hardship for many who seek medical care and advice. That is the important point. This may not be a deterrent to people on the salaries received by members of parliament. It may not stop us from seeking medical advice and so on and then going on to more expensive things. It is important to remind the Government that the original health care which the patient seeks from the general practitioner is by far the cheapest aspect of the whole process. The point to make is that what is not a deterrent to someone on my salary can be a quite substantial hardship to people who most need medical care and advice. 
I put it to the Minister for Health, who is at the table and who I think is aware of the difficulties associated with proposing any worthwhile changes to the present system, that because of a lack of statistical information we do not know what would happen, what effect certain changes would have, who would be affected, what the effect would be on different groups in the community and by how much the cost would be reduced if in fact we asked people to pay the first $50 or the first $100.I draw the Minister's attention to paragraphs 142, 148, 149 and 150 of the paper presented by his Department. I think I have raised important points. I appeal to those outside the Parliament, and that includes especially the Australian Medical Association and to some extent even the funds, to exert pressure on the Government to prevent the Prime Minister from introducing changes which will adversely affect the health care of the nation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Are any smoke detectors using Americium-241 manufactured in or imported into Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
1 ) How many vehicles owned by the Department of Defence were involved in accidents during (a) 1975, (b) 1976 and(c) 1977. 
How many (a) civilians and (b) defence personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
How many vehicles driven by defence personnel but not owned by theDepartment were involved in accidents in (a) 1975, (b) 1976 and (c) 1977. 
How many (a) civilians and (b) defence personnel were (i) injured and (ii) killed in these accidents. 
How many defence personnel were charged with offences arising out of these accidents. 
Is it true that the Minister for Health is now looking at what he euphemistically calls long term hospital benefits for elderly patients? Does that not mean that for the first time pensioners in Australia will have to contribute almost all of their pensions when in public hospitals? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What was the estimated daily alcohol consumption in (a) each State or Territory for which figures are available and (b) Australia, expressed in grams per person over the age of 18 years in (i) 1969, (ii) 1972, (iii) 1974 and (iv) 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What was the estimated cigarette consumption per person over 16 years of age in Australia in (i) 1960, (ii) 1965, (iii) 1970, (iv) 1975 and (v) 1977. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Question ( by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice.on 9 March 1978: 
What was or will be the level of subsidy for each registered hospital fund under the Subsidised Hospital Table as at (a) 30 June 1977 and (b) 31 May 1978, based on contribution rates approved at the time of answering this question. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government agree with the statement in the Green Paper on Immigration Policies and Australia's Population that approximately 9 per cent of all immigrants between 1 945 and 1 976 were refugees or people from refugeetype situations. 
What was the proportion of the latter in (a) 1975-76 and(b) 1976-77. 

 Mr MacKellar: The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 1947 and 1976, about 3.3 million settlers arrived in Australia, of whom some 300,000, or approximately 9 per cent were classified as refugees. 
Persons classified as refugees in visas and arriving in Australia in 1 975-76 amounted to 8.3 per cent of the intake. In 1976-77 they amounted to 1 1.5 per cent to the intake. 
These figures do not include large numbers of displaced persons from the Lebanon. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice on 10 April 1978: 
What is the estimated cost to State and Commonwealth governments of the proposed changes in the method of paying for the orthodontic post-operative treatment of hare Ups and cleft palates. 
-Clause 3 deals with the object of the Act. I agree with the honourable member for Marybyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  I have not seen all the alternative codes and I have not seen the final Code proposed by the Government- when he said that the likelihood is that we will get better environment protection nuclear codes from a Federal government than we will from individual State governments. There may be differences of opinion on that point, but basically my belief is that local governments, whether in Queensland or in the Northern Territory- I refer especially to the Northern Territory which has a very small legislative assembly- are likely to be influenced much more easily by powerful mining groups in allowing certain things to happen than would people from down here. Hopefully, that is the situation. Clause 3 states: 
The object of this Act is to make provision, within the limits of the powers of the Parliament, for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia . . . 
The important point to remember is how to protect the health and safety of the people of Australia. I have some doubts about this matter. 
Obviously the Government has also. I wish to refer to an article written by  Sir Mark  Oliphant who was Professor of Nuclear Physics at the Australian National University for a long time. The article appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald of  Tuesday, 25 April. He wrote: 
It now appears certain that uranium mining will soon begin in the Northern Territory. Many people fear that this may increase exposure of Australians and other people to ionizing radiations which are deleterious to individuals and to succeeding generations. 
It is therefore worth reporting once again how expert opinion continues to be full of uncertainties. The plain fact of the matter is that neither those who claim that exposure to low levels of radiation is harmless, nor those who are equally convinced that it can cause cancer, malformations of the foetus, leukaemia, or other unpleasant effects, have convincing evidence to support their view. 
Congressional hearings in Washington in February raised serious doubts about this question and about the efficacy of the safety precautions imposed to protect those whose work exposes them to low levels of radiation, as in uranium mining and handling. 
That is obviously what we are dealing with; there were great uncertainties. He concludes his column by referring to this congressional inquiry: 
The Congressional inquiry reveals that there is as yet no certainty about the effects of low levels of radiation, or of the inhalation of very small amounts of radioactive materials, upon human beings. There is, however, growing concern over the long-term safety of all involved with nuclear energy, from the mining of uranium to its use as a source of energy. 
I think that is an important point. We do not know. On 7 March of this year I put a question on notice to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in these terms: 
Are there any figures available showing the number of deaths caused by lung cancer in uranium miners working (a) underground and (b) in open cut mines in (i) the USA, (ii) Canada, (iii) South Africa, (iv) the USSR and (v) Czechoslovakia. 
The Minister for Health provided an answer but I will not go into the details of it. I will mention the important points. In answer to that part of the question dealing with underground mining the Minister indicated that in the United States, Canada and Czechoslovakia the figures show quite clearly a very high rate of risk. I am not suggesting that that sort of risk rate would be transferred to open cut mines, because basically it depends on the concentration of the gases in the atmosphere where the mining is taking place. As an aside I mention that it seems that in South Africa there is much less chance of getting lung cancer from working as an underground miner than from not doing so. So apparently underground mining there is good for you. In all other countries miners suffer 2.5 to three times more from lung cancer than other people. We have no figures available for the Soviet Union. That is very depressing because the Soviet Union is one of the largest producers of uranium and one of the largest manufacturers of atomic energy plants. In fact, that country exports both those commodities. It is depressing that we do not have any figures available from the Soviet Union. More important than that is the fact that the Minister said in reply to my question: 
There are no data available relating specifically to open cut mines. 
That is the important point. We are dealing with the open cut method of mining uranium in Australia. We have no figures available. 
I have read to the Committee the arguments put by Professor  Sir Mark  Oliphant on the inability to have answers to all of these questions. We know that there are vast differences between different people who might be exposed to small quantities of radiation. We know that in all countries the incidence of lung cancer at least, is very much greater in the case of miners who smoke though we do not know why. We know that the incidence is much greater in miners who work in open-cut mines or in any kind of mine. Smoking seems to be much more significant in these cases. Is it due to the fact that there seems to be some attachment of radioactive particles to the substances in the cigarettes that are inhaled or is there anything in my own theory, which has not been confirmed anywhere, that it is just due to the fact that people who smoke draw the gases in much more deeply than other people and they get a - 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a very short statement on the same topic. 
Leave granted. 
-The report of the Health Insurance Commission for 1976-77 which has just been tabled shows a number of interesting points. The first is that Medibank Standard underspent its original appropriation by $27m. The second is that the administrative expenses of Medibank Standard are 4.2 per cent of benefits paid whilst the administrative expenses of Medibank Private are 15.7 per cent of benefits paid. The latter corresponds to other private fund figures. This again shows that Medibank Standard, as originally conceived, is much simpler and cheaper to administer. Even so, Medibank Private showed a profit of $ 1.7m over the first nine months of its existence. I would be interested to know how the cost apportionment principles worked and I hope that at some stage the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will be able to supply the House with some details. 
Finally, even though we have heard a lot about bulk billing leading to cheating and doctors claiming for extra visits and consultations for which services were not rendered, the figures in the report show that, even though 55.6 per cent of all medical claims were bulk billed, they amounted to only 34.9 per cent of the value of all claims; that the number of services per bulk billed claim was 1.28 compared with 2.2 services on other claims; and that the average cost of each service claimed by a bulk billing was $8.80 compared with about $1 1.50 per service on separate accounts. All of this suggests to me that bulk billing is not a cause of excessive costs and that bulk billing is of great benefit, firstly, in keeping down the costs of the claims and, secondly, in keeping down the administrative costs. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) Has approval been given for  Mr Vladimir  Kouzin to enter Australia. 
Can he say if  Mr Kouzin  is a well known secret police agent employed by the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as alleged by members of the then Opposition in 1975. 
-Did the Minister for Health see the  Four Corners  program on possible long term adverse health effects of pesticides shown last Saturday evening and Sunday? Was he satisfied with the views expressed by the spokesman for the Commonwealth Government,  Dr E.  J. Fitzsimons of the National Health and Medical Research Council? Would he not agree that even the least alarmist of us have good reason for alarm when we become aware of the apparent lack of concern and knowledge shown by this spokesman for the Commonwealth Government? 
-I would like the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to explain why this clause is to be made retrospective to 7 April whereas the provision dealing with the Curran scheme is to be made retrospective to 16 August. I understand from what the Treasurer said in reply to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  earlier in the debate that the overriding principle is a quantitative one. In other words, if a large amount of money is involved one goes back a bit further to try to plug the hole. I have no objection to that. 
The Treasurer stated that he does not know the amount of money involved. He said he is not sure about the amount involved in the Curran scheme although he feels it is a large sum. He certainly does not appear to be sure about the scheme we are now talking about or others with which we will deal later. For all we know they may also involve huge amounts of money. I do not know and obviously the Treasurer does not know. If the principle involved is only one of quantity, why go back to 7 April in one case and to 16 August in the other? Can the Treasurer give me some sort of explanation? 
-Tonight we are still debating Appropriation Bills No. 3 and No. 4 and, as honourable members know, they present an opportunity to speak on most issues. I want to devote my remarks mainly to the question of health costs, but before doing so I would like to make some more general remarks. We need confidence in this country in the economy and I would ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, to draw the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to a report which appeared last week in the  Australian Financial Review  that persons associated with both VAM Ltd and the so-called militant wing of the New South Wales Liberal Party are trying to take over the New South Wales Permanent Building Society, which has assets of $700m. At present, the so-called moderates in the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party, led by  Sir John  Pagan, control this particular building society. 
Is the Treasurer aware that VAM Ltd is in receivership, that its shares were suspended in 1971 by the Sydney Stock Exchange and have not since been relisted? Can he assure the House that such a takeover of the building societywhich I think is the largest- would not endanger the deposits of thousands of persons? I feel particularly strongly about this because I am one of those depositors and I certainly would not like to see the brawl between different wings of the New South Wales branch of the Liberal Party endanger my hard-earned savings. Speaking quite seriously, I do not know what kind of legislation is available to the Government to intervene in that sort of situation, or whether it would all be under Commonwealth or State control but, with assets of $700m, the building society is obviously a very large organisation. It seems to me to be ridiculous that people who are associated with a failed company will apparently be able to get control of that particular building society. 
All of the changes made to the health insurance scheme by the Fraser Government have really been moves to shift the cost of health care from the Government to individuals. Let us remember that health care can basically be paid for in three possible ways. First, it can be paid for by the individual or his family incurring the expense; in other words, the sick user pays. Secondly, it can be paid for by people insuring themselves and thus spreading the risk; the insurance companies pay. Thirdly, it can be paid for out of taxation revenue. In most countries, including Australia, payment is by a mixture of the three methods. Payment by the sick individual, or via private insurance, really amount to the same thing- the payment is by private sources. I ask leave to incorporate Table I in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

This table shows that before Medibank was introduced by the Whitlam Government the Commonwealth paid 28.5 per cent of health care costs; State and local government paid 27 per cent; and private sources, including private insurance, paid 44.5 per cent. During 1975-76 the Commonwealth proportion of Medibank was increased to 51.9 per cent; State and local government contribution dropped slightly, to 24.8 per cent; and that from private sources was almost halved, to 23.3 per cent. Payment via taxation is, of course, generally considered to be more likely to be progressive; that is, based on the ability to pay. 
Since the Fraser Government took office it has tried to reverse the proportion paid by the Commonwealth and by private individuals. The Commonwealth's share has been reduced to 44 per cent; that of State and local government is still about 24 per cent; and that of private sources has increased from 23.3 per cent to 32 per cent. All of the attempts of the Fraser Government have been directed to increasing the proportion of health care costs paid by private sources. In fact, payments for health care from private sources are shown in table 2, which I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Payments for Health Care from private sources- 

<graphic href="109131197805092_44_1.jpg"></graphic>

Table 2 shows that the payments from private sources for health care increased from $1,2 18m in 1975-76- the only year when Medibank was in operation- to an estimated $2,200m in this financial year. Therefore, during the last two years more than $ 1,000m of the cost has been transferred to private sources. This has really been an increase in taxation, because taxation is an agreement between the Government and individuals to provide certain services in exchange for an amount of money. A real increase in taxation is either a reduction in services or an increase in money collected. Usually people think about increases in taxation occurring only when more money is collected, but if services are reduced it has exactly the same effect. In this particular case, as the services provided by the Government have been reduced they have to be paid for outside of the taxation system, and that really represents an increase in taxation. 
Many examples of this are provided in the field of health care, but the most obvious occurs when there is a withdrawal of drugs from the pharmaceutical benefits list. The patient then has to pay for those drugs more than he previously had to pay, but his taxation is not reduced. This really amounts to an increase in taxation. The Government is now trying to soften people up in anticipation of certain possible changes to the health care insurance system by leaking those changes to the Press so that they will become more acceptable to individuals. We all know that there is at present- or there was until this morning- an argument taking place in Cabinet between the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  with different Ministers taking up different positions. 
Possibilities canvassed during the last week in the newspapers include that the gap between what the doctor charges and what patients receive from either Medibank or private funds will rise from 1 5 to either 20 or 25 per cent; the hospital charges will increase by up to 50 per cent and that, to cover this, hospital insurance for private ward treatment will rise by about $2.80 a week per family; that many long-term elderly patients in public hospitals will be covered only for nursing home benefits, rather than for hospital benefits, which means that they will be contributing a substantial sum from their own pockets; that the subsidy of $ 16 a day per bed for private hospital patients will be abolished; that bulk billing will be abolished; and that health insurance funds will be able to offer cheaper medical benefits insurance for people prepared to pay up to the first $150 a year of doctors' charges from their own pockets. 
We also know that pressure will be placed on some hospitals to withdraw beds which are not being fully utilised, and we have heard of the proposition of a $4 per day 'reminder' charge -to remind people that hospitalisation is expensive. It has been leaked that the Medibank levy will be increased to 2.7 or even 3 per cent of taxable income, and that the present ceiling will be abolished, forcing many people to take out private health insurance. Now we have heard of the final proposition, which seems to have been supported at question time today by the Minister for Health, that the Government is proposing a 1 per cent across the board health tax for everybody, whether belonging to Medibank or to private funds. 
Obviously I do not know what the Government will announce during the next few years, but since before the elections Government supporters have talked about the simplicity of running a national economy. The Prime Minister has stated clearly that it is just like running a house or a farm. If you do not have the money you do not spend it; you balance the Budget. The Prime Minister has poured heaps of rhetoric on to the sin of deficits. He promised to get the deficit down to around $2,000m in the coming year and now it looks like being more than $3,000m. The projected deficit for the 1978-79 Budget, now in preparation, is something like $6,000m. Health costs are a pretty big slice of Budget spending. The Treasurer, urged by  Mr Fraser,  has already promised that Government spending will be cut to the bone in this Budget, as it certainly has to be if the Government's promises are to look a little more substantive than hollow nonsense. The Government looks at health care as a drain on the public purse and it looks at it in the short term context of the 1978-79 Budget. It is one of the Budget areas where costs can be cut to the bone, or at least where a little extra revenue can be generated and where outgoing can be kept to a minimum- or that is the way the Government sees it. It is in that light that the Government will look at health costs. There will be no philosophical commitment to preventive medicine, no change to make the health system a more equitable, balanced and a sensible government program. What will happen is that the Government will utilise the ideology of free enterprise and massive public confusion over the whole system to attack, not the problem of rising health costs, but the problem of the burden on the Budget they represent. What we are then dealing with is a successful attempt by the Government to increase taxation whilst claiming to be reducing taxation. 
I would like to take this opportunity to remind honourable members of the fraud associated with replacing our system of tax rebates and child endowment with the family allowance scheme. Honourable members may recall that this scheme was applauded by many people two years ago. It was hailed as a revolutionary new program. For the first year in fact a significant number of people were better off. But now every taxpaying family with children is much worse off than it was under Labor. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which compares the rates paid to tax paying families under the family allowance scheme with those paid under the tax rebate and child endowment arrangements. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805092_46_2.jpg"></graphic>

In this table the $200 child rebate introduced in the 1975-76 Hayden Budget has been indexed in line with other tax rebates. Under indexation the child rebate in 1977-78 would have been at least $250 per child- that is $4.82 per child per week for a taxpaying family calculated on the basis of indexing $200 by 13 per cent in 1976-77 and by 10.9 per cent in 1977-78. These are official Government figures which apply to the Government's tax indexation measures. We see from the table that every tax paying family is worse off. The tax rebate which has now been lost in respect of a family with just one child is $4.80 a week. The child endowment for the first child would have been 50c a week. Therefore a family with one child would have received $5.30 a week under our system even if the level of child endowment had not at any stage been increased. The family allowance this year for the first child is $3.50. Therefore every family with only one child loses $1.80 a week. A family with two children would have received a tax rebate, which is no longer available, of over $9.60 a week. The child endowment would have been 50c for the first child and $ 1 for the second child making a total of $1 1.10 a week. The family allowances introduced by this Government are $3.50 for the first child and $5 for the second child, making a total of $8.50 a week. Therefore there is an income loss to that family of $2.60 a week. Similarly, for a family with three children the loss is $3.40 a week, for a family of four children it is $4.45, for a family of five children it is $4.75 and for a family of six children $5.30 a week. 
I was pleased to see the other day that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  raised this issue. He claimed he had the support of at least one other Government supporter to index family allowances. Obviously this is necessary otherwise the loss will increase from year to year. If the family allowance is not increased and the tax rebates are allowed to apply to areas other than those available to children every tax paying family with children in Australia will suffer a net loss. 
The Government is not prepared to take on the medical profession. This is one of the most difficult problems facing a government. The median income of the medical profession in Australia now exceeds $70,000 a year. Doctors are getting richer faster than any other occupation or group and that probably includes lawyers. Doctors' incomes must be held down if the nation is to afford a national insurance system, but this is very difficult to achieve. The reason it is difficult is that those who minister to the body, allegedly unlike those who minister to the soul, spring from a tradition that puts them at peace with personal affluence. They have no trouble harmonising with the time honoured interest of getting rich, as is evidenced by the investment advice carried by medical journals. 
I often think I should. Furthermore, with our method of the doctor prescribing, the patient receiving and a patchwork of insurance systems paying, there is lots of money in the system and no incentive to be frugal in using it. 1 would like to make one further point. The Government, the newspapers and the media generally have been trying to blame Medibank for the great increase in health care costs. The Minister for Health no longer does so. Let me explain why the Government has got away with it in many instances. The total cost of health care in Australia increased by 36.4 per cent in 1974-75 and by 26.8 per cent in 1975-76. No wonder most of the instant experts writing feature articles for the Press or pontificating on television and radio blamed Medibank, especially as their 'in depth' investigations were often based on handouts from the Voluntary Health Insurance Council. There is only one catch to that proposition, and that is that Medibank medical started on 1 July 1975 and hospital Medibank later still in most States. Therefore the huge increase in health care costs preceded Medibank. The year before Medibank came into operation in Australia health care costs increased by 36.4 per cent. The year after Medibank came into operation the figure had dropped to 26.8 per cent. I am not suggesting that 26.8 per cent is a figure to be aimed for. What I am saying is that the increase in health care costs had nothing to do with the introduction of Medibank. It was depressing, but it was there. The amount of money paid out by the private funds by way of medical benefits during the year before Medibank was introduced increased by 5 1 per cent. 
Last week the Minister for Health tabled the report of the Health Insurance Commission. There were a number of notable features about that report and I would like to draw the attention of the House to some of them. The report shows that Medibank Standard underspent its original appropriation in 1976-77 by $27 lm. It also shows that the administrative expenses of Medibank Standard were only 4.2 per cent of benefits paid but those of Medibank Private, which are similar to those of the other private funds, were 15.7 per cent. This disparity clearly shows the Medibank Standard as originally conceived is much simpler and less expensive to administer. Yet Medibank Private, despite its much higher administrative expenses, was still able to show a profit of $ 1.7m in the first nine months of operations. 
On the question of bulk billing, there have been many claims and allegations that this procedure was expensive. Apart from the administrative savings in bulk billing- I know that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  who is the  Deputy  Government Whip, is one of those who often attacks bulk billing- the Health Insurance Commission report showed that even though 55.6 per cent of all medical claims were bulk billed, they still amounted to only 34.9 per cent of the value of all claims and that the number of medical services for each bulk billed claim averaged 1.28 compared with 2.2 services for all other claims. The report also showed that the average cost of each medical claim under the bulk billing system was $8.80 compared with $ 1 1 .50 for each claim on individual accounts. All this suggested that not only does bulk billing not cause excessive costs but also that the system of bulk billing markedly depresses health costs. 
I would like to move the following amendment to the second reading of Appropriation Bill No. 3 (1977-78). I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the appropriations contained therein reflect a policy in respect of government spending (a) which is depressing the lack of demand, increasing unemployment and inhibiting economic recovery and (b) which exemplifies the wasteful and inequitable priorities aimed at supporting the well off and economically secure rather than the under-privileged '. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What have been the contributions by each registered hospital benefits organisation to the Hospital Benefits Reinsurance Trust Fund. 
What have been the contributions by the Commonwealth Government. 
3 ) What is the method of calculating contributions. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
Which Australian medical faculties teach students about the basic economics of medical care, for example the cost of alternative methods of treatment and the relative costs of in and out-patient treatment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) Have staff limitations reduced the technical staff at the Plant Quarantine Research Station. 
If so, is there now insufficient technical staff to provide adequate back-up services for professional staff. 
We on the Opposition side are pleased that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has now announced his decisions on the reorganisation of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. We also note the statement that is to be made in the Senate by  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science. 
The social and economic context in which the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation now operates differs considerably from that which prevailed in 1949, at the time of the previous major review of the Organisation's activities and structure. Thirty years ago, it was widely believed- indeed almost universally believed- that there was an almost inevitable link between scientific research and economic progress. Technological developments and inventions, it was thought, flowed directly from research, especially research at the frontiers of knowledge. Technological innovation was not regarded as a serious problem by science policy makers. 
As a result of these attitudes, the pursuit of excellence in scientific research and the control by 
CSIRO itself of the implementation of its research results were understandable. CSIRO scientists have undoubtedly earned for the Organisation a well-deserved reputation for highquality research in a very wide range of fields. They have also been responsible for technological products of major importance.  InterScan,  as has been mentioned by the Prime Minister, has, of course, recently achieved international recognition. But there have been, in recent years, several well-informed and constructive criticisms of the failure of the licencing and patenting procedures to return to Australia the benefits of research by our scientists. There have also been responsible comments that inadequate economic evaluation of CSIRO research is undertaken. Naturally the scientific decisions must be left in the hands of scientists, as the Birch Report and the Prime Minister's statement point out. But the Opposition is not completely satisfied that the Prime Minister's statement embodies a policy which would ensure that CSIRO research and development produces maximum benefit to the Australian people. We do support a changed emphasis on the thrust of CSIRO research. In 1949, rural research was that most demanded by the nature of the economy. Now, manufacturing and the tertiary sector require a greater emphasis of research effort. 
Although this fact is acknowledged by the report and the Prime Minister's statement, the committee of inquiry decided against making any substantial review of CSIRO programs, advising only that 'programs should be reviewed and, where judged to be inappropriate, terminated'. This is a disappointing generalisation. As well as the economic changes and improved economic understanding of the role of science which have taken place since CSIRO was last reviewed, social attitudes to science have matured. No longer is there a persuasive, naive trust that technological change is necessarily advantageous. A much healthier, critical attitude has developed, including an acknowledgement that community and environmental needs must be considered directly. They cannot simply be tacked on to the needs of industry. The Opposition would expect the Government to give serious attention to this matter in any review of CSIRO research priorities. Unfortunately, in this respect, too, the Birch Report is rather vague. 
In summary, the main thrust of the report and of the Prime Minister's statement is that, on the whole, no major changes should be made to either the structure or the functions of CSIRO. These structural changes which are proposed are improvements. They will allow improved coordination of CSIRO activities - 
I will not reply to the Laurel and Hardy team from Tasmania. The matter I raise concerns much more money than the amount they have spoken about in relation to Tasmania. I refer to the $700m invested in the New South Wales Permanent Building Society Ltd. To preface my story I refer to a company called Vam Ltd which was delisted by the Sydney Stock Exchange in 1 97 1 and is now in receivership. Each year about a month before the meeting of creditors stories are floated suggesting that the company is about to strike oil, gold, uranium or some other bonanza. This never eventuates but as a result of these stories the company has been getting yearly extensions from the creditors. To indicate what is happening in relation to the NSW Permanent Building Society I wish to quote extensively from an article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  The article reads in part: 
All the signs are evident that the differing factions within the NSW Liberal Party are going to be fighting ruthlessly over the control of the NSW Permanent Building Society. 
The establishment within the party will be attempting to keep the society out of the hands of the right wing, while the rightists will be throwing their weight behind certain selected candidates who have nominated to fill board vacancies. 
The venue for this ruction will be the forthcoming annual general meeting of the NSW Permanent, when three of the five board vacancies are up for grabs. 
There the bitter struggle going on within the Liberal Party will be opened up for public display while the NSW Permanent with its $700m in assets regrettably becomes the rope in the tug-of-war. 
The meeting has to be held some time before the end of August. 
These are some of the latest developments to bear in mind:  Mr Stanley  Eskell, the chief executive officer of Vam Ltd, and a member of the NSW Upper House, has taken legal advice on certain aspects of the rules of the society. 
Sydney solicitor William Lander and Partners have provided the advice, and it is understood that it concerns the meaning of the society's rules 99 and 104. 
These rules provide that if numerous joint accounts are opened, all having at least one common name, then the depositor who is classified the 'primary joint holder' can register a vote on behalf of all his partners. 
The article goes on to show that one person could control 4,000 votes at that meeting by being one of the names in numerous joint accounts. The article then continues: 
One of the leaders of the right-wing within the NSW Liberal Party,  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, is actually employed within the Vam Group. 
Both  Mr Eskell  and  Mr Urbanchich  were present at the adjourned annual general meeting last year and the right wing was in evidence conspicuously opposing  Sir John  Pagan 's re-election and supporting Or Gwen Fitzpatrick. 

 Mr Urbanchich says he has been concerned about the management of the NSW Permanent Building Society and had given some thought to the problem. 
I do not blame him for having had some concern about the NSW Permanent Building Society because we know that the Society granted significant loans to  Sir John  Pagan, a director of the Society. The article continues: 
But it is understood that discussions and preparations for an assault on a few retiring directors have been under way for some time and that signatures have been arranged for the opening of numerous joint accounts. 
Funds are also being organised. 
The article then goes on to show who are the retiring people, who the new people will be, which candidates are sponsored by the so-called moderates in the New South Wales Liberal Party and which are sponsored by the so-called right wing of the New South Wales Liberal Party. We can all remember that last year a man named Puplick, who I think will be replacing  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton when he retires, successfully organised the so-called moderates at the last annual meeting of the New South Wales Permanent Building Society. With the help of numerous Queen's Counsel he was able to persuade the courts that  Sir John  Pagan should stay in control. 
If I had to choose between  Sir John  Pagan and people such as Eskell and Urbanchich, not necessarily for their political beliefs but for their association with a very shonky company, Vam Ltd- which, as I said earlier, is in receivership- I would certainly support  Sir John  Pagan. I have some money deposited with the New South Wales Permanent Building Society. I sincerely hope that Vam Ltd will not get control of the Society which has assets of $700m. I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will take steps to protect the assets of the depositors. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What financial help has the Government given or offered to other countries accepting refugees and evacuees from Indo-China and East Timor? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General 's attention been drawn to the article entitled 'The law and artificial insemination with donor semen (AID)' by Dominica Whelan, barrister-at-law, Family Court of Australia, in the Medical Journal of Australia of 14 January 1978. 
If so, will the Attorney-General raise the legal problems involved with the State Attorneys-General with a view to amending legislation relating to the status of children as recommended by the author. 
-I feel sorry for the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in having to come into the House today to make this statement. He knows that it is not the sort of statement in which he believes. He was careful of course to emphasise that repeatedly in his speech. 
He said that he did not believe the propositions and that he did not have any statistical information to support any of his proposals. The Government worked on the changes for more than 2 years but the total saving to the Commonwealth will be less than one per cent of the expenditure on health costs. Commonwealth expenditure on health costs this year will be of the order of $3,000m. Honourable members know that government departments always underestimate the cost of changes. The expected saving will be $24m out of $3,000m. The Minister read a 22-page statement in order to save $24m. The other day the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  made a much shorter statement in order to pay $40m for two VIP aircraft so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will have a nice trip overseas. The Government is to save $24m, which is less than one per cent of total Commonwealth expenditure on health costs. The change will significantly increase the cost to individuals. Obviously the Minister has been forced into this by the standover tactics of the Prime Minister. Previously the Prime Minister has not shown any great interest in health funding. Suddenly he has become interested in it. I do not know whether his Principal Private Secretary, who is the son of one of the directors of the Medical Benefits Fund, was one of the people influential in bringing about some of the changes in the attitude of the Prime Minister and forcing Cabinet to sit on at least four separate occasions to consider this matter. Finally it was decided not to do much. 
Let me look at the changes proposed by the Government. As the Minister said in his Press statement, by the change the medical benefit will be reduced to 75 per cent of the schedule fee. Inflation is used as the argument for this. The point is that patients have been paying 15 per cent of the schedule fee and the schedule fees have been increasing. The expenditure on the part of the patient has always been indexed at 1 5 per cent of an increasing amount. Now it is to be suddenly increased to 25 per cent. The Government will be paying 75 per cent instead of 85 per cent. That is an approximate decrease of 12 per cent in expenditure on medical benefits in the case of benefits not reaching the maximum. The total expenditure on medical benefits will be of the order of $600m or $700m this year, so one would expect a saving of somewhere between $60m,and $70m just on that item. But the total' saving will be only $24m. Honourable members can see that obviously some of the other changes will cost the Government money. 
The main cost will be due to the changes in bulk billing of medical claims. We were told over two years ago that the Health Insurance Commission estimated that if bulk billing were abolished there would be an increase of $ 10m in administrative costs. Instead of sending out a relatively small number of cheques to a relatively small number of doctors, it would be necessary to check many accounts and send out many individual cheques to individual patients. The Government now proposes to abolish bulk billing for all except pensioners covered by the pensioner health benefit scheme. I have made a quick calculation in respect of this matter. I find that as at 30 June 1977- the date of the last available report of the Department of Social Security- there were 767,000 social service beneficiaries who now will be excluded from bulk billing. I repeat that over three-quarters of a million social service beneficiaries will be excluded from bulk billing. In fact, the number is greater now because many more people are in receipt of unemployment benefits. 
At any one time in this country some 150,000 persons are in receipt of sickness benefits. Really, the number of people involved is much larger than 150,000 because these people also have dependants. They are sick and they must attend doctors to receive medical treatment. They will no longer be entitled to receive bulk billing. At that stage-30 June 1977-250,000 people were in receipt of unemployment benefits. There were 51,000 people in receipt of supporting parents benefits and some 9,000 people were receiving special benefits. In addition, 20,000 people in receipt of invalid pensions, 50,000 widowed pensioners, and 272,000 aged pensioners will no longer be entitled to be treated by their doctors and be bulk billed. 
The Minister implies in his statement that bulk billing is an expensive item. The Health Insurance Commission tabled its report on 5 May 1978. That report shows that even though 55.6 per cent of all medical claims were bulk billed, they amounted to only 34.9 per cent of the value of all claims. Therefore, the claims are greater in amount in the case of the non-bulk billed claims. The number of medical services for each bulk billed claim averaged 1.28 compared with 2.2 services for all other claims. Again, that shows that if anything there is a greater likelihood of fraud in the case of non-bulk billed claims. The average cost of each medical claim under the bulk billing system was $8.80 compared with $11.50 for each claim on individual accounts. That is nearly 50 per cent more in the case of claims on individual accounts compared with bulk billed claims. Yet, the Minister claims that he is making these changes to save money. Obviously, he is not doing this to save money. He has already saved $50m or $60m by the one change of reducing the amount of refund claimable from 85 per cent to 75 per cent. The total saving involved here is only $24m. Therefore, bulk billing must be costing the Government money. 
Why is it abolishing bulk billing? It will cost the Government money to do this. The reason the Government is doing this is pressure from the private medical funds and from the more conservative sections- I emphasise the words 'more conservative sections'- of the Australian Medical Association. The medical funds do not like bulk billing because it gives a commercial advantage to Medibank. It is obviously advantageous from the contributors point of view to be bulk billed. The medical funds have made no provision for bulk billing with the exception of the 
Hospital Benefits Association Ltd in Victoria. I have repeatedly asked the Minister to provide figures to show that in the case of Medibank bulk billing, Medibank private bulk billing or Hospital Benefits Association bulk billing, there is any evidence whatever that bulk billing is costing excessive amounts of money. There is no evidence that this is the case. The Minister has never been able to produce any evidence and it is quite clear from the changes he has introduced today that this has been done purely because of the pressure from the private medical funds which, of course, identify with the Government as the Government identifies with them. 
When the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  was acting Minister for Health he referred, in a broadcast on the  AM  program, to the private funds as 'us'. He said, 'They will not leave us', in reply to a question which asked, Will not people leave the private funds?'. 
I think that since the honourable member for Gwydir became Minister for Health, he has learnt a little about the medical profession and about medical funds. He is not so completely convinced now that medical practitioners and the representatives of private funds are doing things in the interests of the community only. That is why I feel sorry for the Minister for having to introduce these changes today. I emphasise again that I do not believe for one minute that these changes have been supported by the Minister, his Department or by the Health Insurance Commission. They are changes which have been brought about by pressure from the Prime Minister. The private health funds are to be permitted to introduce as an option a deductibles scheme within their medical and hospital tables. The Minister says vaguely that this could be for an amount of $50, $100 or $200. One assumes that the amount of $200 is not the limit. He says that people would still need to have universal health cover. If there is to be a $200 deductibility, why should there not be a $500 deductibility or a $ 1 ,000 deductibility? 
If I were running a private health fund and a person came to me wanting to be a contributor to my fund and was prepared to pay the first $ 1 ,000 of medical and hospital costs, I would charge that person a very low contribution rate. For practical purposes, such people could escape the compulsory insurance cover and opt for the highest possible tax deductibility. That is fair enough for the young person and for the person who earns enough income to claim his medical expenses as a tax deduction. If I were 20 years younger and were in receipt of the income I received when I was a medical practitioner I would be happy to take up that sort of offer. If I had the bad luck to have any member of my family enter a hospital or need to undertake expensive medical treatment, in fact the Government would subsidise any medical expenses I had by an amount between 48 cents or 60 cents in the dollar, depending on what tax rate I was paying. 
Yet the people who must remain covered by medical insurance and must keep on paying their contribution rates because they are worried about having high medical expenses must pay a higher contribution rate for this. Such contributions are not a tax deduction. This is completely unfair. The young, healthy and rich person will benefit. The funds will still have to pay almost all the money that they are paying out now because the sort of people who opt for the deductibles will be people who have low medical expenses. The other people will remain in the funds. If the total amount of payout is to be divided amongst a lesser number of contributors, the net result will be that the insurance rates will have to be increased. The Minister talks about a 46 cent deduction in medical insurance rates because of the gap increase. Obviously, if there is a 46 cent saving by increasing the gap from 15 per cent to 25 per cent, the funds will charge at least 46 cents extra for the gap insurance. If I know the funds, they will charge at least 60 cents for providing that gap insurance. There will be no saving for individuals. Those people who are sick and those people who are not well off in the community will be quite significantly worse off 
I do not accept the whole argument on the question of gap insurance. It applies mainly to people who are attending general practitioners and that is not the expensive part of medical insurance. The main argument advanced by those people who want to introduce the gap has been its use as a disincentive to individuals to go to the doctor unnecessarily. I do not accept that point but I can see an argument in favour of it. But the Minister emphasised that people will be able to continue to take out additional insurance cover for the extra out of pocket payments. The Minister is destroying that incentive. He is reducing the insurance rate by 46 cents because he is increasing the gap, but the funds will probably charge the individual contributors 60 cents for the extra insurance to cover that gap. There is no incentive for the individual person and the funds will have higher administrative costs. It is a completely pointless exercise. The whole of these changes seem completely pointless. It has taken a statement of 22 pages in length to present these changes to the Parliament but the total value of these changes to the Commonwealth Government is $24m, which is less than one per cent of the total expenditure. 
-I know that $24m is a lot of money. I emphasised that point the other day when the Prime Minister was spending that amount on VIP aircraft. It is exactly the same sort of money. But the people are not saving $24m; the Government is saving $24m by transferring that payment to individuals. The cost to individuals will be greater than $24m. That $24m represents less than one per cent of the total cost; $30m would be one per cent of the total cost. The Government is bringing about all these changes to gain an improvement of less than one per cent. It is transferring expenditure from a worthwhile area to administrative expenditure in the Department and the Health Insurance Commission. If the Government thinks that that is a step in the right direction, then I am surprised. I am certainly surprised if the  Deputy  Whip on the Government side, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  who usually takes a different sort of line on these issues, takes that particular line. I would have thought that the  Deputy  Whip, who has some understanding of the problems involved, would realise that the transfer of payments from health expenditure to administration of health expenditure is not a great advancement. 
Let me deal with one other point. It concerns the Minister's proposals in relation to likely changes as far as hospitalisation is concerned. He makes seven points in relation to hospitals. Most of them are fairly meaningless.  (Extension of time granted.  ) I will not take as long as it took the Minister to produce this statement. The Minister says in his statement than negotiations will be undertaken to make certain changes in the hospital schemes. Most of them are fairly meaningless statements but two of them are not. One is that the Government will require long stay patients in recognised hospitals to contribute towards their accommodation and care as they do in nursing homes. What that means is that pensioners who are long stay patients in hospitals will have to pay $45 a week towards their hospitalisation. Never has it been the case in Australia, as far as I can find out, that pensioners with no other income have had to contribute towards the cost of their hospitalisation. The Minister's argument is that this puts them on the same level as those in nursing homes. The point is that long term patients in hospitals- people who have had strokes, people who have had fractured thighs or fractured hips- expect to be released from hospital. Suddenly, out of their $52 pension they will have to pay $45 weekly for their hospitalisation. There are two net effects. 
The honourable member for St George thinks that that is a good idea. I wonder whether the people in his electorate will think it is a good idea that a lady pensioner, admitted to hospital with a broken hip and who expects to get out of that hospital, will lose her accommodation outside the hospital because she has to pay $45 out of her $52 pension for the hospitalisation. She cannot keep her room going, or keep her flat going, and becomes extremely depressed about the situation. She loses her accommodation and becomes a charge upon the State or the Commonwealth for the rest of her life. It is all very well for the honourable member for St George to smile about this. He does not think he gets any votes from those particular people and he does not care what happens to them. But these are the sorts of people he is trying to hurt and he does not mind hurting them. He is a relatively young bloke and he will probably go for all the deductibles that are possible because he will be able to claim them as tax deductions; but the elderly pensioners in his electorate, who will now have to pay $45 a week for every week they stay in hospital, may well disagree with him. 
At the present time pensioners do not have to contribute towards their upkeep in any hospital in Australia. The Government argues that if patients have to pay for hospitalisation, the cost of that hospitalisation will become lower. Yet the Minister cites figures from the State which until recently was- for practical purposes it still remains- the only State providing free hospitalisation. I refer to the State of Queensland. The cost of a hospital bed in Queensland is $100 a day compared with about $140 or $150 a day in all other States. What was the incentive in Queensland to keep the costs down? It had nothing to do with people having to contribute towards those costs because hospitalisation in Queensland has been free for a long time. So obviously other factors are involved. The Minister talks about incorporating some outofpocket payments- reminder payments- for patients who will be in hospital. The suggestion has been made that a charge of $4 a day be imposed on persons who are in hospital as a reminder of the high costs of hospitalisation. 
-An unauthorised stay? What is an unauthorised stay? Is it intended to employ officials to check on every hospital to ascertain who is in hospital for an unauthorised stay? As I understand it, an unauthorised stay in hospital would be the case of somebody who had a liedown strike in a hospital; someone who stayed in a hospital bed without authorisation from the medical superintendent or the doctors at the hospital. What are we to do in relation to people who are admitted into public hospitals? The Government claims to have regard for State rights. That same Government now intends to say that the people who are staying at the Prince Alfred Hospital or at some other hospital for a particular period of time cannot stay there any longer because their stay is no longer authorised by the Commonwealth Government; they will now have to pay $4 or more a day. Who will decide whether they are to stay in there longer? Is the patient to make that decision? Who is to decide whether it is an unauthorised stay by the patient? I will be interested to hear what the Minister has to say about that. 
The Minister admits that the Government requires more comprehensive information on the health care system to enable it to monitor costs in more detail than is possible at present. I think it is depressing that the Government, knowing that it does not have the figures and facts at its disposal, nonetheless has brought in these changes. The changes are superficial in a financial sense because the saving to the Government is less than one per cent of the total cost; but they are not superficial inasmuch as they will cost individual persons a significant amount of money. The people who will be hurt most will be those in the poorest sections of the community. The Minister emphasises in his statement the fact that the Government is interested in the poor sections of the community. I have shown that 272,000 age pensioners, 20,000 invalid pensioners, 15,000 persons on the widows pension, 51,000 persons on the supporting parents pension, more than 250,000 persons-I think it is now 280,000 personsand their dependants on the unemployment benefit, 1 50,000 persons and their dependants receiving the sickness benefit, and 9,000 persons and their dependants on the special benefit will no longer be able to claim on bulk billing when they go to their doctor. 
The Minister says he will have talks with the Australian Medical Association to ensure that the AMA does not charge more than the 75 per cent rate for bulk billing. We know now what the reply from the AMA will be. It will not take 75 per cent instead of 85 per cent from those pensioners who are still eligible. I can predict at this point, and I am prepared to take any sort of bet with the Minister on it, that the AMA will reject the Minister's proposition to reduce the charges of its members from 85 per cent of the normal fee to 75 per cent. I am surprised that the Minister was prepared to come into the House and put up this proposition. I feel sorry for him for having had to do so. That is one of the difficult aspects about being a Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I hope he can give me just as detailed an answer as the last one from the Prime Minister. I remind the Minister for Health that he has estimated that the extensive new changes to our health insurance scheme will save the Government $24m over a full 12-month period. Can he provide details as to the expected savings due to the reduction of refunds from 85 per cent to 75 per cent, and the expected extra expenditure due to the abolition of bulk billing? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What is the estimated saving to revenue during 1977-78 due to the abolition of tax deductibility of health insurance contributions. 

 -Mr Speaker, I draw your attention to the report of the speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in yesterday's  Hansard  at page 2398, 2400 and 2401. The first item on page 2398 is a table headed 'Rate of Growth of Health Costs'. No leave was granted for the inclusion of that table. On page 2400 the sub-headings 'Medical Benefits' and 'Deductibles' appear. On page 2401 the sub-heading Hospital Sector' appears. We know that the Government is spending $750,000 to sell the new scheme to the public, but surely  Hansard  does not have to co-operate by providing subheadings and so on for government propaganda. 
-Thirteen years ago the 26th Commonwealth Conference of the Australian Labor Party incorporated in its platform a proposal to establish an Australian science council. That was the first commitment made by a political party in Australia to constitute such a council. The introduction of the Australian Science and Technology Council Bill into the House marks a significant stage in the fulfilment of our initiative. During the intervening period, we in the Labor Party have contributed substantially towards this stage and we have witnessed the pleasing change of attitude on the part of members of the present Government. We welcome, for example, the change of heart of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this matter. In March 1 969 when he was Minister for Education and Science he addressed the Science and Industry Forum of the Australian Academy of Science. He criticised the idea of a science council and concluded: 
We may then be wisest to continue our pragmatic, evolutionary approach seeking advice from different people as different problems arise. In this way we can establish a network of informal and ad hoc relationships. 
To many, this would appear to be an inappropriate arrangement for seeking advice on matters of public policy involving science and technology. What is more, it is an inadequate way of providing opportunities for both expert and public comment on the social aspects of science. So we note that the Prime Minister has radically changed his mind on the value of a science council. We support this Bill in principle. Our support is based not only on a long history of interest but also on our active history in this matter. In March 1974  Mr Morrison  the then Minister for Science, tabled a Green Paper entitled 'Towards an Australian Science Council'. The same year, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development made a thorough study of science and technology at the request of the Labor Government. Following consideration of the report of the OECD examiners and following public discussion of the Green Paper,  Mr Morrison  in January 1975 issued the White Paper 'Science and Technology in the Service of Society'. This document was, therefore, the result of a wider ranging discussion, and it outlined a framework for an Australian Science and Technology Council. The membership of the Interim ASTEC was announced in May 1975 and only the events of November 1975 prevented the establishment by statute of an independent body responsible for providing the Government with advice on science and technology. 
The Bill before the House will accomplish this objective. It represents the culmination of a process begun 1 3 years ago by Labor and stimulated 4 years ago under Labor. We therefore support the BDI. Liberal-Country Party governments have always sought science policy advice from two sources- the established elite of the Australian academic scientific community and big business. This was the case when the Australian Academy of Science provided information and advice on an informal and ad hoc basis, as described by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in 1969. It was the case with the hastily devised Advisory Committee on Science and Technology; it is the case now with the existing interim ASTEC. 
The Government's understanding of the kind of advice needed on science and technology is very narrow. The limits to its understanding emerge clearly from the composition of the Council, and the terms of reference detailed in the Bill. We shall therefore move a number of amendments. ASTEC 's role, apparently, is to ensure the promotion of basic science and the industrial innovation of technologies. That is a view which is certainly outdated and is quite undesirable. The Opposition comprehends science not only as an economic activity and as an intellectual activity, but also as an activity with broader social demands and consequences. New scientific developments can assist in promoting better information on the natural environment and its conservation, and informed health care. Equally, technological changes can damage the environment, can threaten health or can result in reduced employment opportunities. 
On these broader aspects of science and technologyaspects central to the advice needed by government- distinguished senior academic researchers and directors of large private companies cannot be regarded as experts. If one of ASTEC's tasks is to keep the Government, Parliament and community informed on latest scientific and technological developments it should include active scientists. If, however, ASTEC has as its major task the providing of advice on public policy matters involving science and technology, as well as priorities for support, it needs intelligent, critical citizens, as well as experts with varied backgrounds, including active scientists, technologists and social scientists. They should be selected from academia, industry and the public sector, as both the White Paper and the report of the interim ASTEC proposed. 
The Government is not likely to receive constructive criticism, a touch of responsible scepticism, on the social value of science and even the economic value of technological innovation from the scientific elite. What is likely to be provided is advice which is superficially very profound but deep down very superficial. Scientific specialists, it must be remembered, are not experts outside their own fields. They are, by virtue of their background, narrowly trained. Equally, senior industrialists are necessarily narrowly interested. The public should be able to be confident that members of ASTEC do not represent a vested disciplinary or commercial interest. This confidence cannot be maintained with the Government's decision to select a council dominated by big business and senior academic scientists. 
The Interim Council appointed by the Labor Government was significantly more broadly based, both in terms of the disciplinary backgrounds of its members and in their institutional affiliations. In particular, we ensured that the social sciences were represented to a greater extent. We did so because we take seriously the socio-economic aspects of science, and because we recognise that this is a major area of science policy advice. In fact, science policy which fails to take such matters into account is little more than a research and industrial development policy. Our decision to include the broader implications of developments of science and technology within the terms of reference of ASTEC was supported by the OECD examiners, and the Australian and New Zealand Association for the 
Advancement of Science Policy Commission. It was also subsequently supported by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, commonly known as the Coombs commission. The terms of reference proposed for ASTEC in this Bill are deficient in this respect. 
Science and technology are major components of social change, natural resource use, education and the changing nature of work- to give just some examples. These matters should be recognised in the Council's terms of reference and as I said earlier the Opposition will propose amendments to the Bill to provide specifically for their inclusion. We shall also propose an amendment which would ensure the participation of social scientists, active researchers and laymen in the Council's deliberations. Bodies already exist whose function is to promote science; ASTEC's function should be to assess science, to criticise, to evaluate, to promote public discussion of the issues raised by science and /or technology. The Opposition will also seek to amend the Bill to enable ASTEC to exercise its own initiative to a greater extent in undertaking investigations, and to ensure that when ASTEC reports are withheld, either wholly or partially from the Parliament, the Minister shall inform the Parliament that this has been done. ASTEC must not be a tool of the Minister. 
The Bill establishes ASTEC as an independent statutory body. We support that decision. If the Minister rejects or ignores its advice, it should not be possible for the Minister to hide that fact. This Government and succeeding governments should welcome public interest and public involvement in science policy. ASTEC can function to provide for these, by being free to stimulate knowledge of matters associated with science, even if these could be potentially embarrassing for the government of the day. Consequently, we shall seek to ensure only the necessary minimum of control by the Minister over confidential commercial or security matters. We shall also seek to amend the Bill to require a greater turnover of the Council's membership. ASTEC will need a regular infusion of new ideas, new approaches. The Bill as it stands would make it too easy for ASTEC to become entrenched, for its relationship with the Government to become too comfortable. This situation has tended to develop with science advisory bodies in Australia under conservative governments. This tendency should be broken. 
Finally, the Opposition has some reservations about the secrecy provisions of the Bill. The provisions are not only restrictive but, in fact, impose almost impossible conditions on scientists who give information to the Council. Certainly, commercially sensitive or defence-related information should remain confidential. But because clause 26 is so comprehensively written, it will pose problems for scientists acting as consultants or committee members. The Opposition supports the Bill, and hopes that the Government will review the narrow focus it has proposed for ASTEC and will have another look at clause 26 to see whether it really prevents consultants to the Committee from publishing their work later on. We hope that when the Australian Science and Technology Council is finally established with the permanence, independence and status the passage of this Bill will provide, the Council will see itself free to give rather more substantial, helpful and daring information and advice than its report on energy research and development contains. The Opposition supports the Bill but will move a number of proposed amendments. 
-I seek leave of the Committee to move together the amendments circulated in my name. 
Leave granted. 
I shall be moving amendments to clauses 5, 6, 8, 10 and 1 1, which read in part: 
Clause 5. 
The functions of the Council are to investigate, and to furnish information and advice to the Commonwealth Government in respect of, matters relating to science and technology, including the following matters: 
the advancement of scientific knowledge; 
the development and application of science and technology in relation to the furtherance of the national well-being; 
the adequacy, effectiveness and overall balance of scientific and technological activities in Australia; 
the identification and support of new ideas in science and technology likely to be of national importance; 
the practical development and application of scientific discoveries; 
the fostering of scientific and technological innovation in industry; and 
the means of improving efficiency in the use of resources by the application of science and technology. 
Clause 6. 
Where the laying of a report before the Parliament in accordance with sub-section (2) would result in- 
the disclosure of information that would, in the opinion of the Minister, be contrary to the public interest by reason that it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of the Commonwealth or relations between the Commonwealth and any State; or 
b) the disclosure of information received by the Council in confidence, the Minister shall, in his discretion- 
cause the report to be laid before the Parliament with such deletions as he thinks necessary to avoid that result; or 
cause the report not to be paid before the Parliament until he is satisfied that laying the report before the Parliament would not have that result. 
Clause 8. 
1 ) The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers in accordance with such directions as are given to it by the Minister in writing. 
Clause 10. 
The Council shall consist of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and not less than 3, nor more than 13, other members. 
Clause 1 1. 
Subject to this Part, a member holds office for such period not exceeding- 
in the case of the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  5 years; or 
in the case of any other member- 3 years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. 
A person shall not hold office as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  for a continuous period exceeding 10 years. 
A person who has held office as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman  for a continuous period of 10 years is not eligible for re-appointment as the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman,  as the case may be, for a term of office commencing within 12 months after the expiration of that period. 
Subject to sub-section (6), a person shall not hold office as a part-time member for a continuous period exceeding 6 years. 
Subject to sub-section (6) a person who has held office as a part-time member for a continuous period of 6 years is not eligible for re-appointment as a part-time member for a period of office commencing within 12 months after the expiration of that period. 
Where- 
a person has held office as a part-time member for a continuous period of 6 years or, by virtue of a previous application or previous applications of this sub-section, a continuous period exceeding 6 years; and 
the Minister certifies in writing that, in his opinion, by reason of exceptional circumstances specified in the certificate, it is desirable for the person to continue in office, the person may be re-appointed as a pan-time member for a period of office commencing on the expiration of the period referred to in paragraph (a). 
A person who has attained the age of 65 years shall not be appointed or re-appointed as a full-time Chairman or Deputy Chairman and a person shall not be appointed or reappointed as a full-time Chairman or Deputy Chairman for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of 65 years. 
In this section, 'pan-time member' does not include the  Chairman  or the  Deputy Chairman. 
-I move: 
Omit clause 5, substitute the following clause: 5, The functions of the Council are to investigate, and to furnish information and advice to the Commonwealth Government in respect of, matters relating to science and technology, including the following matters: 
a ) the advancement of scientific knowledge; 
the implications for the community, for the environment, for industry and for Government policy of developments in science and technology; 
utilising science and technology in the development of national objectives; 
priorities for scientific and technological research and development, and on policies to give best effect to these priorities; 
the organisation of and institutional arrangements for the conduct of scientific and technological activities; 
f) manpower policies for science and technology; 
the fostering of scientific and technological innovation in industry; and 
utilising science and technology in the achievement of national objectives. 
In clause 6, after sub-clause (3) add the following subclauses: 
Where the Minister exercises his discretion in favour of causing the report to be laid before the Parliament with deletions he shall disclose to Parliament the grounds upon which such deletions were made. 
Where the Minister exercises his discretion in favour of causing the report not to be laid before the Parliament he shall within 15 sitting days after receiving the report disclose to Parliament that he has received the report and the grounds upon which he has exercised such discretion. '. 
In clause 8, omit sub-clause ( 1 ), substitute the following sub-clause: 
1 ) The Council shall perform its functions and exercise its powers as it sees fit and shall act upon any directions given to it by the Minister in writing. '. 
In clause 10, omit sub-clause (1), substitute the following sub-clause: 
1 ) The Council shall consist of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and not less than 7, nor more than 15, ordinary members of whom at least 2 shall be persons professionally qualified as social scientists, 3 shall be scientists currently involved in research and 2 shall be members of the Australian Parliament appointed respectively by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. '. 
In clause 1 1, sub-clause ( 1 ) (b), omit ', but is eligible for re-appointment". 
In clause 1 1, omit sub-clause (2). 
In clause 1 1, omit sub-clause (3). 
In clause 1 1, omit sub-clause (4). 
In clause 1 1, omit sub-clause (5). 
In clause 1 1, omit sub-clause (6). 
In clause 11, omit sub-clause (8). 
In moving those amendments, I have made a number of points in support of them. Other members of the Opposition would like to touch on some aspects of the amendments. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
How many individual taxpayers for the year 1 976-77 were exempted from the health levy for (a) the whole 39 weeks and (b) a pan thereof because they were privately covered for medical and hospital insurance. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What Australian benefits are available for Papua New Guinea ex-servicemen who served with Australian forces in World War II. 
What requests has the Government received from the Government of Papua New Guinea on this issue. 
-Before launching into the matter of public importance, I should like to refer to a statement yesterday by  Mr Speaker  that we are entitled to put subheadings into our speeches. Could I suggest to  Hansard  four sub-headings: 'Government Attacksthe Poor', 'Government Attacks the Sick', 'Prime Minister Stands Over Minister', and 'Government Lies Exposed'. I do not mind where they are put in. I am sure that the  Hansard  staff is good at editing and will be able to put in the appropriate sub-headings. 
This is not intended to be purely an attack on the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  because I know that the Minister does not believe in the policy that he had to announce on Wednesday. We know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) stood over him and insisted on this policy. It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister does not even allow the Minister to have his own Press Secretary attending his Press conferences and doing the work for him. He is accompanied by  Mr Baurdino  and  Mr Gaul, Mr Baurdino  being the representative of the Liberal Party, and the Minister does not even belong to the Liberal Party. That is an example of the Minister being completely under the thumb of the Prime Minister and the Liberal Party. 
The statement by the Minister for Health was true to form. It was long on words and good intentions but short on substance. Our own claim that the Government is shifting the cost burden on to the sick and the poor is shared by many people in the community who normally do not support us. May I quote from a representative of the Australian Medical Association, in this case one of its most conservative representatives.  Dr Hart,  the State  President  of the AMA in Queensland said: 
The Federal Government's decision to increase the cost of visiting a doctor would inflict hardship on low-income groups, the chronically ill and those with large families. 

 Dr Hart also said that the changes would cause health care costs to rise in the long term. An editorial yesterday in the  Age  stated: 
Their main effect- 
That is the Government's proposed changes-  will be to shift some of the burden of health-care costs from the public to the private sector, from higher to lower income earners, and from those in good health to those who are sick. This is a notable retreat from the concept of a universal health insurance scheme that most Australians have approved. 
This is also a fraudulent policy. For example, it pretends that there is no increase in the levy, but there is a real increase. The levy will continue after 1 July at the same rate as it is now. Yet for that levy a patient will get a return of only 75 per cent of his medical fees instead of 85 per cent. Obviously if he is paying the same amount for a lesser return there is a real increase in the levy. The Minister himself has argued that the funds should reduce their contribution rates by 46c a week. If the funds have to reduce their rates by 46c a week surely the levy should be reduced. After all, people are getting less for their contribution. The figures produced by the Minister are wrong, of course, and I will be interested to see whether he will finally produce some detailed figures. The reduction of 46c suggests a 10 per cent saving to private funds arising from a reduction of refunds. But Medibank paid out about $600m for medical fees last year, and a 10 per cent saving would be $60m. Why are we talking about only a $24m or possibly a $17m saving to the Government? 
The documents which accompanied the Minister's speech on Wednesday- I particularly refer to page 2 of a background paper called 'Costs of Private Health Insurance'- contain fictitious figures, prepared by  Mr John  Gaul or  Mr Bob  Baurdino hopefully not by the Department because I hope that it is not involved in such fraud -suggesting a 46c reduction in medical insurance rates in every State, making it easy for the newspapers which would report it without checking it. After all, the reporters here are not the brightest. It was suggested that there would be a 46c reduction, from $5.75 to $5.29 in New South Wales, and the same reduction, from $3.60 to $3.14 in Western Australia. This obviously cannot be right. The gap is to be increased from 15 per cent to 25 per cent in every State. If the real cost of medical insurance is only $3.60 in Western Australia and $5.75 in New South Wales, obviously the reduction in medical insurance must be proportionate. It must be greater in New South Wales than it is in Western Australia. The figures supplied by the Liberal Party's fraud squad- I do not mean 'fraud squad' in the sense of a State police force fraud squad which looks for fraud, but people who actually go in for fraud, such as Messrs Baurdino and Gaul- are obviously fraudulent. The Government is providing $750,000 to sell this scheme to the Australian public. Soon we will see advertisements with the Minister smiling happily telling the population at large what the changes mean. Some $750,000 will be spent to enable us to see the Minister smiling on television and in the newspapers. Maybe his photograph will not be used; maybe the photograph of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be used. Obviously the changes shift the cost burden to the individual, especially the poor and the sick. 
Let us look at the three proposed changes. I shall look at the abolition of bulk billing first. This is the most cynical change. It will mean that bulk billing- or direct billing, as it is often called-by Medibank will be available only to pensioners holding pensioner health benefit cards- in other words, those pensioners who are entitled to full fringe benefits- and their dependants. According to the Minister, this is designed to reduce the over-provision of services, and fraud. He has produced no evidence to show that direct billing encourages over-provision. On the contrary, Medibank has found that direct billing patients on average account for fewer medical services each year than do those people who are billed individually. As for fraud, bulk billing fed through the Medibank computer has been the principal means of detecting fraud, and its abolition will make it harder to track down abusers. 
This change will also mean that many low income earners, other than the pensioners covered, will pay much more for medical care. Patients for whom doctors directly billed Medibank paid nothing for medical services. In future they will have to meet the 25 per cent gap between the medical benefit and the schedule fee, plus whatever margin the doctor charges above the schedule fee. Thus in a single sweeping change the Government will increase the burden on the poor, boost doctors ' earnings and weaken an important means of monitoring medical services and incomes. At the same time it will increase the cost of running Medibank by millions of dollars a year- yesterday it was claimed that the increase would be $7.5m and last year or the year before it was claimed that it would be $ 10m- because the expense of processing individual claims is many times that of meeting monthly accounts from every doctor. That is the result of the abolition of bulk billing. 
As I pointed out the other day, more than 750,000 social security beneficiaries plus their dependants will no longer be entitled to bulk billing. The other poor people will also not be entitled to bulk billing. What the Minister argued in reply to a question yesterday from the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  about Aborigines and in reply to another question today is that the doctors will render accounts. He suggested that these poor people will then take those accounts, fill in Medibank refund forms, send them in, get refunds from Medibank, complain if the refunds are not appropriate and send the refund cheques back to the doctors. He does not believe that, and I do not believe it. I do not believe it will be possible for many of these people to deal with it in that way, even if the doctors were prepared to take that sort of a risk. After a short time, even those doctors who might want to take that risk- I am not suggesting that all doctors are hard-hearted people who are just after the money- will find that they will receive only a small proportion of those cheques because the people are incapable of getting the money from Medibank. The doctors will then insist on being paid cash. The same applies for Aborigines and many migrants. It is impossible for many people in our society to complete the appropriate application forms. 
Let us deal with the second proposal of this Government: A reduction from 85 per cent down to 75 per cent in refunds. As I said earlier, this is of course a real increase in taxation via the levy because patients will still pay the same amount but will receive a smaller refund. It will be extremely costly for the poor and the sick- they often overlap- and for those people with large families. All kinds of questions arise: Will the Australian Medical Association advise the doctors, and will the doctors take notice of that advice, that they should accept 75 per cent of the schedule fee from now on? 
-I am not arguing that they should not do so. 
-I do not know about doing it for nothing but they used to do it for approximately 62 per cent before Medibank was introduced. They ought to do it for 75 per cent now, but whether they will is extremely debatable. 
-I share the Minister's hope but I do not believe that they will do it. They certainly will not do it generally. What will happen to those pensioners, even those pensioners entitled to fringe benefits? What will happen in other cases? In New South Wales and in some other States there is a system of modified fee for service in country hospitals without resident medical officers. The system has worked on the basis that private doctors attending hospitals receive at present 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. That amount is called the modified fee for service. Will those doctors agree to accept 75 per cent? I doubt it. It will be interesting to see what happens in the Minister's electorate. Many of those sorts of hospitals are in his electorate, so we will see whether the doctors there agree to that reduction. 
Let us look at the third proposition which has been floated, and that is the question of frontend deductibles. It is interesting to note that the voluntary funds- certainly through their spokesman,  Mr Moon-  have implied that they will not accept the proposition. I noted that  Senator Baume  in an interjection to  Senator Grimes  in the Senate also implied that the funds will not in fact accept it. What would be the consequences of introducing front-end deductibles? I think they would be disastrous. It will remove the healthy people from the health insurance pool and put them in a special pool so that they will pay a slightly lower premium. The spokesman for the Australian Natives Association in Victoria,  Mr Munro,  claimed that a $ 100 deductible will save a person $35 a year. But then all the sick people, the high risk people, will be together in another pool and they will have to pay significantly increased premiums because they will not receive the benefit of the contributions of the young, fit people, as at present. It means that the poor and the sick people will be paying a lot more money than they are paying at present. I think that is wrong. It is a question of equity. I hope that all of us in this society see a need for those people who are better off and who are well to contribute towards meeting the costs of other people. 
It is also a question of equity with regard to tax deductions. The person who takes out the deductible, the person who is well off and is healthy can deduct medical expenses from his taxation if something goes wrong and he incurs those expenses. In effect it is a government subsidy of, say, 32c, 46c or 60 per cent, depending on the person's income. The person who is paying his contribution cannot claim a tax deduction for those contributions. Again, there is a question of equity. People who are already better off, people who are well, will be helped further by the Government. Others will be further disadvantaged. As we know, the Government is now proposing a 50 per cent increase in hospital fees. This will cost a lot of money. I conclude by quoting from two editorials in newspapers that do not normally support us. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of yesterday, in an article about the Government's proposal stated: 
In fact, instability has been a curse of the Australian health system. It was chronic before the introduction of Medibank Mark 1, and has reappeared since the present Government's confusing and badly explained changes of 1976; for at least the rest of this year, uncertainty will continue to reign supreme. Once upon a time non-Labor politicians used to complain loudly and bitterly of the onset of 'creeping socialism. ' What the Federal Government is now doing might well be called creeping anti-socialism- the gradual undoing of a taxfunded system of  univeral  health insurance, very widely approved when Labor introduced it. 
I ask for leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a significant proportion of the editorial in today's  Australian Financial Review,  starting with the words, 'That is really the essence of what is so objectionable', to the end of the editorial. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

That is really the essence of what is so objectionable in the Government's approach to health insurance. It is entirely concerned with minimising the political damage of what is admittedly an awfully difficult policy problem. 
At no stage is any serious attention paid to the actual policy. Prime Minister Fraser is anxious to do a cosmetic job on the Consumer Price Index.  Mr Hunt  wants to be loved, or at least not vilified. The conservative politicians are paralysed with fear of the political clout of the medical fraternity, especially in rural areas, where they have created mini health industries dominated by people whose incomes are underwritten with public funds. 
Consequently we have, as we had again this week, a charade of public policy formulation. 

 Mr Hunt's statement characterised all the worst aspects of contemporary politics in Australia. It was an insult to the intelligence of the electorate. It did not address itself to the problems of health costs, even as they have been identified by  Mr Hunt  himself in his more honest moments. 
It reeked of cowardice in taking the huckster's advice of being structured to mislead and in being unprepared to come to grips with the two major areas of cost increase, medical practitioner exploitation of the system and woefully inefficient hospital administration. 
The specifics of  Mr Hunt's  statement are being unravelled, interpreted and mostly criticised by the various interest groups in the health industry. 
Without in any way commenting on the merits or otherwise of their remarks it can be said that  Mr Hunt  has further devalued the fragile reputation of our politicians with his approach to what is a truly difficult area of public policy. 
He has treated the question of health policy solely as a public relations exercise in minimising political damage, using some transparently dishonest means of doing so. Government is too important a business to fall into the hands of the hired flaks. 
I shall not take up the full time that is available to me but, as Opposition spokesman on health matters, I feel that this is a relevant Bill. Honourable members may recall that in the debate, on 4 May, I supported the legislation, broadly speaking. I shall quote from my own speech:  1 agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  when he said that the likelihood is that we will get better environment protection nuclear codes from a Federal government than we will from individual State governments. There may be differences of opinion on that point, but basically my belief is that local governments, whether in Queensland or in the Northern Territory- I refer especially to the Northern Territory which has a very small legislative assembly- are likely to be influenced much more easily by powerful mining groups in allowing certain things to happen than would people from down here. Hopefully, that is the situation. 
I am one of those who believe that nuclear mining is inevitable, though I oppose it at the present time. I believe that the people of Australia must be protected. Those who work in mines and those who will work in mines, together with those who will be involved in carrying, transport, and so on, must be protected. It is terribly important to have that sort of legislation. I draw the attention of the House to clause 3 of the original Bill which reads: 
The object of this Act is to make provision, within the limits of the powers of the Parliament for protecting the health and safety of the people of Australia, and the environment, from possible harmful effects associated with nuclear activities in Australia, and this Act and the regulations shall be construed and administered accordingly. 
I emphasise that it says that the object is to make provisions within the limits of the powers of the Parliament. Clause 12 of the original Bill gives every possible conceivable constitutional reason for argument as to why the regulations and the legislation should be within the powers of the Parliament. It refers to nuclear activities being carried on by or on behalf of the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth for the purpose of trade or commerce with other countries or among the States, to nuclear activities carried on for purposes related to defence, to activities carried on by foreign corporations, by trading corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth and to activities carried on in, or in connection with, a Territory or carried on in the territorial sea of Australia. The clause then goes on to mention foreign treaties. 
So clause 12 seeks to give the Commonwealth Parliament the maximum amount of power and we agree that that power should be used to protect the people of Australia to the maximum extent in relation to uranium mining if uranium mining commences in August during the next couple of years. I believe that it is unnecessary for uranium mining to commence in Australia. It should not commence within the next couple of years. However, if it does, and after all the Government has the numbers and can insist on it happening, it is essential that the persons working in this industry be completely protected. I shall quote again from my speech on 4 May - 
-I am addressing myself to amendment No. 5. 1 have pointed out that I support amendments Nos 1,2, and 3. Amendment No. 5 seeks to insert the following sub-clause: 
10) Regulations shall not be made in pursuance of subsection ( 1 ) of (2 ) for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance or a code of practice in a State unless the Governor of the State has requested the GovernorGeneral to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, that code of practice in the State. 
If this amendment is agreed to it will mean that this Parliament will not be taking advantage of its powers, as was intended when this matter was debated on 4 May, to insist that the workers in Australia be protected as much as they can be protected. I have some doubts about that level of protection, as I pointed out on 4 May. What we say in the Bill is that we will go to the full limits of the powers given to this Parliament but the amendment enables us to crawl out of our responsibility to exercise that power. We say that although we have the power we will not exercise it unless the State Governor asks us to exercise it. What is the necessity then for all the references in clause 12 to the powers of the Commonwealth over the States? 
Obviously the point of the exercise was to impose certain minimum codes on the States. None of us would argue that amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 are not reasonable amendments which provide for full and appropriate consultations with the appropriate Minister from each State and from the Northern Territory, but we do not leave it at that. We then say that if those Ministers, after full and complete consultations, reject the proposed code we will not insist on that code. That is a deplorable position for us to take because it lowers the degree of protection to which I have referred. I emphasise again that I am one of those who originally supported the legislation. 

 Mr Chairman, I again wish to quote from my speech of 4 May. I hope that you will not object to me doing so because I think my remarks then were relevant. On that occasion I said: 
What lam suggesting is that it is admirable to produce this type of legislation if there is to be uranium mining. 
I then went on to debate whether there ought to be uranium mining and later said: 
If there is to be uranium mining this sort of legislation is necessary . . . 
I hope that the Government will investigate deeply the risks involved and will be extremely tough with the States in enforcing legislation to protect workers in this industry. If there is any doubt upon any matter relating to the industry I hope the Government will always resolve that doubt in favour of the people working in the mines and will insist that companies take what will often be quite expensive precautions to prevent any risk and harmful effects to people working in the industry. 
That is the aim of this legislation, to bring in codes under which people will be working. I went on to say: 
The legislation provides that heavy fines may be imposed upon companies should they not carry out the codes- $50,000 a day is one of the fines referred to in clause 14. It is important that the stage at which fines of that nature might be imposed should never be reached. We should ensure that the companies cannot tempt workers by offering them high wages to perform in an occupation which in the long run might be extremely risky to them. 
I meant by that that it would be risky for them if we did not impose those nuclear codes. It is important to realise that amendment No. 5, which we are debating with the first four amendments, stops us putting those codes into practice. The codes can be put into practice in the Northern Territory, Queensland, Western Australia or any State where uranium mining takes place only if the Governor of that State- I presume that means the State Government- requests those regulations to be put into practice in that State. I think it is doubtful that a State Governor would do that, and I hope that the Minister realises it. If this Government really wants to reassure the potential miners of uranium and the people who will be transporting the material mined, it will amend this legislation to put it back to its original form because that is the only form which offers protection to them. If the people working on the wharves, the railways, the trucks or wherever discover that the method of packaging used for this material is not up to the standard which the Federal Government wanted to impose but is only up to the standard of packaging which the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly agreed to, or that the Queensland Government agreed to because it received a big donation from one of the mining companies, I hope that they will take appropriate action and interfere with the carriage of those goods. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Are visitors to Australia charged for treatment as hospital patients in recognised public hospitals; if so, what is the daily 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Did the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recommend the establishment of an advisory body to be known as the Australian Refugee Policy Council under the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
Has a decision been made on this recommendation; if so, what is it. 
-Two of the Bills before the House- the National Health Amendment Bill and the Health Insurance Amendment Bill- generally speaking deal with matters which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  forecast in his statement about two weeks ago to introduce changes which allegedly will reduce the cost of health insurance, the cost of health care to the Australian population. We have discussed those changes previously and the Opposition has repeatedly pointed out that we disagree with the points which have been made by the Minister and by this Government, the particular points which were to reduce costs, and that it was an unfair method, the net result of which would be an increasing cost burden on the sick and the poor due to the Government's dismantling of Labor's Medibank scheme. 
In dealing with the Bills today I point out that the Opposition strongly supports the introduction of the travelling allowance and overnight stay allowance scheme which is proposed as part of the amendments to the National Health Act; that we do realise that persons living a long way away- defined in this legislation as 200 kilometres away- from the nearest specialist needed some subsidy and we agree that this is a much better method of dealing with it than the proposals which have often been suggested by persons writing to us. I am sure all of us have received letters asking for the inclusion of availability of tax deductions for those travelling. Tax deductions of course help people who pay fairly high taxation. They do not help people at all if they do not pay tax and yet the people who do not pay tax are obviously the poorest people in the community in many cases, apart from those who have taken advantage of the Curran scheme and similar schemes and they need these sorts of allowances. 
The Opposition, however, completely rejects the major changes and those we are dealing with in this legislation are the abolition of bulk billing, the reduction of the refund- which means of course an increase in the patient contributionand the introduction of deductibles. The Australian Council of Social Services produced a statement when these Bills were introduced in the House and I think in some ways it summarises the views of many other people who have contacted me, and my own views as to what is the effect of this legislation. We must remember that the Australian Council of Social Services is an organisation of welfare people who are involved with the poorer sections of the community. In that statement the Council said: 
ACOSS views with extreme concern the changes in the health insurance system announced yesterday by the Minister for Health. The Council said that the abolition of bulk billing, for all but pensioners - 
It should really be eligible pensioners-  and the increased gap between fee and benefit will cause considerable hardship to low income earners in the community. Those who are not so readily identified as the pensioner but who will find it very difficult to pay for their medical care at the time they receive the service. They include the unemployed and others receiving government benefits, such as the lone parents; low wage earners supporting large families, and people with chronic recurrent illness which results in  short  periods of absence from work and consequent loss of wages. 'These people will be worse off under the new system than they were even under the old Supplementary Benefits Scheme - 
That is back in the early 1 970s-  although that proved notoriously unsatisfactory', the Council said. The abolition of bulk billing will also increase the overall cost of health care, as it will add considerably to the cost of administration, especially for Medibank Standard, for which the Government itself is directly responsible. 
ACOSS continues that it is totally opposed to the principle of front end deductibles which serve only to assist the younger and healthier section of the community and will inevitably result in additional costs to those in most need of service, unless all the health funds are to become insolvent. They conclude by saying: 
Instead of a balanced approach, the new measures will cause undue hardship to the poor and chronically ill. The new measures will not control health costs and are not the solution to the problems of Australia's health system. 
The Opposition will move an amendment to the National Health Amendment Bill and I formally move it now. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) the concept of optional deductibles, (b) the banning of bulk billing arrangements for medical services, other than those provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) an increase from $2 to $2.50 in the patient contribution for a pharmaceutical item, and that the Bill be reintroduced immediately to include the other measures'. 
On the Health Insurance Amendment Bill I foreshadow that when that particular Bill is at the second reading stage I shall move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) reduction of the level of benefits from 85% to 70% of the scheduled fee, (b) the abolition of bulk billing for all except eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) the introduction of optional deductible schemes, and be re-introduced immediately to include the other measures'. 
The first Bill on the Notice Paper is the National Health Amendment Bill. It provides for health insurance organisations, private health funds, to operate approved medical and hospital deductibles and it foreshadows that guidelines will be issued at a later stage by regulation. The Opposition opposes this on a number of grounds. I think some of the grounds were outlined in the discussion paper which was supposed to be the basis of this legislation. 
The discussion paper was tabled about two months ago and the Minister assured us that it was to be the basis for changes. Paragraph 149 on page 69 of the paper, dealing with deductibles, states: 
Unfortunately, no information is available to determine exactly what size of deductible within tolerable limits would begin to have an important effect on the demand for medical care. 
It is quite obvious that the Government will be working in the dark. It talks about bringing out guidelines after discussion with the funds, but obviously it does not know what to put in those guidelines. The same discussion paper, referring to deductibles, points out that in a community where there is health insurance, especially universal health insurance, premiums must be calculated on the basis of community rating. Not only do the healthy subsidise the sick but the single person subsidises the married person, the young subsidise the old, the middle-aged person subsidises both young families and old contributors, small families subsidise large families, and males subsidise females in most age groups. The paper goes on: 
While risk rating would be cheaper for the single, young and healthy than community rating, it has usually been held to be unfair to discriminate on grounds beyond the individual 's control. 
That is one of the Opposition's main objections to the introduction of deductibles. When the Minister originally forecast the legislation I hoped that he would ensure at least that the funds would be reasonable in the introduction of deductibles by insisting that each fund, if it did bring in deductibles, still had to continue a scheme for persons who wanted to have insurance cover for everything. However, I see that in his second reading speech, when referring to the optional deductibles that he foreshadowed in his statement to the House on 24 May, the Minister stated: 
The proposed new provisions allow health insurance organisations to plan and with the approval of the Minister for Health, operate benefit tables in addition to, or in place of, the basic medical and hospital benefits tables now operated by registered organisations. These new arrangements can apply to both medical and hospital benefits. 
I think this is wrong. I think that deductibles are wrong in any case, but it is particularly wrong in this case because it will encourage some funds to concentrate only on healthy people. At the present time if a large fund such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia or Medibank Private offered deductibles it could assume that the healthier persons subscribing to the fund would take out the deductibles- younger people, single people, persons with small families, people who have reason to believe that it is a fair bet that they will not be spending $ 100 or $200 on health care during the year. They will go for the deductibles and the rest will stay in the general fund, covered for anything. Obviously, the net result of that, if the persons to whom I have referred are accurate in their forecasts that they will have fewer claims, will be to leave a much larger than expected proportion of claims with the others. Whilst some people would get a discount, others would have to pay more. But at least that would be balanced by the fund itself because if it increased the charges to the general population the fund would lose a large proportion of those people who are left after those who want to opt for deductibles are taken out. The funds would now be careful about the deductibles. We know that a fund can be started that offers only deductibles and not a general cover, and surely some smart operator will start a fund for healthy people and his organisation will show a profit and do very well. I think that is completely unfair, and I believe that the Minister ought to have a look at it when he is considering the guidelines for the introduction of deductibles. 
Although the Opposition does not want any funds with deductibles, if we are to keep any semblance of universal health insurance we do not want funds to be able to offer huge deductibles. For $20 a year I could offer a deductible of say $5,000, where a contributor would pay the first $5,000 of his health expenditure, and I would be taking no great risk. The result of that would be that a large number of persons, who think they are fit and well and who believe that they contribute an unnecessarily high proportion of their income towards the upkeep of health care for Australians generally, would join that fund and would really be opting out of the universal health system. 
I am glad to hear that. I hope that the money limit will be quite low. If the money limit is very low then we do not interfere at all with expenditure on hospitals. As we know, hospitalisation is quite expensive. The average bed day cost of hospitals has now reached $ 1 50, and if there is a low limit for deductibles then people will not be constrained at all by it. 
The other point that I have raised before and which I consider to be quite unjust and unfair is that persons who opt out are generally the healthier people in the community and the healthier people are often the wealthier people. They will be able to get a tax deduction for any health expenditure they incur. So if they back themselves as not having a great chance of becoming ill but nonetheless incur expenses during the year, they will be able to deduct those expenses from their taxable income in most cases. In effect, they will get a government subsidy through a tax deduction of 32c in the dollar if they earn less than $16,000, 46c if they earn more than $16,000 and 60c if they earn over $32,000. However, the person who pays his contribution to a fund does not get any tax deduction for it. Again, that is unfair. 
To summarise, I feel that discriminating in favour of those who rarely need medical treatment and against those who need it often should not be the purpose of any national health scheme worthy of the name. Whether the Government admits it or not, it is toying with the idea of moving further and further away from the concept of universal health insurance towards a system of partial insurance which will place an unfair financial burden on those most in need of medical care. It is back to the bad old pre-Medibank days when uncertainty reigned supreme, and I think that is an important point. 
I understand that tomorrow we will be debating the proposition about Bills going into the Committee stages where a few of us will sit around the table where we might be able to have some rational discussion. In the Bill the Minister makes it a condition for registration that a private fund should not bulk bill. How can he possibly justify that? We do not know whether bulk billing has any effect on costs. Figures were provided earlier this year, that we do not know the effect of bulk billing. Even if the effect is adverse, surely there is no reason why we could not look at the claims experience of the Hospitals Benefits Association, for example, which as far as I know is the only fund in Victoria which has gone in for bulk billing. It could continue bulk billing, which would help to give us a rational answer without any cost to the taxpayer. There would be no cost to the taxpayer because we do not subsidise medical insurances in that sense as far as the HBA is concerned. It could continue bulk billing. The HBA would soon know whether it was being defrauded or whether unnecessary services were being used by the people whose visits were bulk billed or unnecessary services were being performed by the doctors who bulk bill. Surely it would be a reasonable proposition to allow bulk billing to continue with respect to that private fund at least. 
I think the abolition of bulk billing which is proposed in this Bill and in the second Bill more generally is a very retrograde step. Surprisingly enough, I have had a fair amount of support on this matter from a significant number of medical practitioners who have rung me or visited me. I know that the Minister has met with and been contacted by a number of medical practitioners who work in with persons who do not have much money or do not have the ability to fill in claim forms. As I understand, what will happen in those cases is that, because of the ideological attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his insistence on the abolition of bulk billing, we will rely on 'pay doctor' cheques. Those cheques will be sent to the patient, care of the doctor's address. The net result is ridiculous. 
A large extra administrative cost is involved. Cheques must be made out to each patient. A large number of individual cheques must be sent out. Obviously that involves much more expense than the present system. The Minister admits this fact when he refers to the figure of $7m, which I think is an under estimate, for the extra cost to Medibank of the abolition of bulk billing. 
What will happen? Instead of doctors passing to the patient assignment forms available for bulk billing at present, in the case of those patients who will no longer be eligible for bulk billing the doctor will have Medibank patients sign Medibank claim forms. The doctor's secretary will make out an account, fill in the Medibank claim form for the patient, put the doctor's address on that claim form and a letter will be sent from Medibank to the patient, care of the doctor's address, containing a cheque made out in the name of the doctor. The proposal is ridiculous. I can only believe that it has been agreed to by either the Prime Minister who knows little about this issue or the  Deputy  Whip,  the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  who, as a chemist, knows that chemists will collect, when the doctor so wishes 60c for each claim on top of everything else. In respect of each claim form and each 'pay doctor' cheque, in addition to the extra cost already involved, Medibank will have to pay the chemist 60c. Four or six claims will not be made on one account. Claim forms will be submitted individually because the chemist wants to collect his 60c on each. I do not blame him for that. But I think it is ridiculous to penalise patients- and, in some cases, doctors who are prepared to work for lesser fees in poorer areas or with poorer patients -and to incur additional expenditure in the form of the extra bureaucracy required in Medibank or in the payments to chemists who will benefit from the change. I oppose next the increase from $2 to $2.50 in the patient contribution for each pharmaceutical benefit. Again it is an unnecessary increase, especially at this stage. There will be an increase from $2 to $2.50, a 25 per cent increase. There is also an increase in the gap, which the patient has to meet, from 15 per cent to 25 per cent, an increase of 66 per cent. These are huge increases. It is not right to talk about a 10 per cent increase in the gap. The difference of course is 66 per cent. The patient has been paying 1 5 per cent but he now has to pay 25 per cent. That is 10 per cent extra contribution on the original 1 5 per cent, a 66 per cent increase in his payment. These are large increases. They will no doubt be passed on in the consumer price index. They will no doubt annoy the Government when they are passed on. 
Yes, and it will try to persuade the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission not to pass on the increase. We are dealing with - 
Yes, I agree with the honourable member for Newcastle. It is a corrupt Government. In the Health Insurance Amendment Bill, we are dealing with a number of amendments. As I pointed out earlier, we accept some of them but the amendments to which we object are the gap increase, the abolition of bulk billing and the question of deductibles. The other point that I make on the question of the increase in the gap or the decrease in the refund is that the Government has very proudly stated that there has been no increase in taxation. Of course there has been an increase in taxation and, more specifically, there has been an indirect increase in the levy. The levy of 2.5 per cent remains the same but what the patient receives for that 2.5 per cent levy is specifically less. Therefore there is obviously a real increase in the levy. 
I know it is 2.5c. If the Government gave people nothing for that 2.5 per cent, would the Minister still say that it was justified because after all it is still only 2.5 per cent? Surely patients are paying 2.5 per cent for a purpose. They pay taxation for a purpose. If the Government reduces what it gives people in exchange for taxation, that has exactly the same effect as increasing taxation. 
-No. What I am saying is that the levy goes up with incomes. It increases automatically with income up to the ceiling because it is imposed as 2.5 per cent of a rising income. What I am saying is that the 2.5 per cent levy has remained a 2.5 per cent levy, but for that amount the patient now does not receive the same refund as he used to. Instead of receiving 85 per cent of the scheduled fee he receives only 75 per cent of that fee. Obviously there has been a real increase in the levy. 
I would like to reply to some interjections but I also wish to raise a couple more points. I raise objection to a policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The ABC is under a fair amount of pressure from the Government. I am not suggesting that it is under pressure from the Minister for Health. I was invited to appear on a  Monday Conference  program which was to be recorded on 30 March this year to be televised on 3 April. The Minister was unavailable on that night and I suggested that possibly the  chairman  of the Government members health committee or  Senator Peter  Baume might be the appropriate person to discuss the question of health insurance and health costs with me on that program. I was informed by representatives of the ABC that, as I was the shadow Minister, it was not possible for the ABC to use anybody other than the Minister to oppose me on that issue and, therefore, the - 
I am not disputing that. They are not my words. I would have been happy to appear with the honourable member, the Minister,  Senator Baume  or anybody else. 
But representatives of the ABC refused. They said that that was their rule. Shadow ministers could not appear with any person other than the Minister concerned. It now seems that the Minister will appear on the program. A representative of the ABC rang me and told me that I could have a ticket to go along and ask one question. I did not accept that proposition. I think that it is wrong for the ABC to take that sort of attitude, and I hope that people can see that it is wrong. 
I wish to make one point regarding the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia, one of the funds affected by this legislation. It is sending out letters justifying its attitude of not wanting to pay for persons in nursing homes. I would like to read from a letter which the HCF last year sent to contributors in nursing homes. It wrote to many nursing home patients in August 1977, after the changes had been announced, inviting nursing home patients to join HCF specially for nursing home benefits. The letter was headed 'Important Message to Nursing Home Patients ' and stated: 
The HCF, as one of Australia's oldest and most experienced health funds, offers patients full nursing home benefits under its basic hospital table. This table also provides benefits of up to $40 a day to cover accommodation costs in a public or private hospital. . . . To join HCF 's basic hospital table, simply complete the application form in the attached brochure and hand it to the nursing home proprietor. If you are already in another private fund, you may transfer to the HCF . . . 
That extract is from the letter sent out by the HCF and now it is complaining because people in nursing homes belong to the HCF and are making claims. What a ridiculous and hypocritical attitude that is on the part of the HCF.  (Extension of time granted).  I thank the House. There is a lot of material in these four Bills and I have much to say on the general issues. I think the Minister will agree that I have an interest in this issue of containing health costs and yet providing the maximum and best possible care for the Australian population. 
The Opposition very strongly rejects the parts of this legislation which do certain things against the interests of the Australian public. Those points are specified in the amendments moved by the Opposition at the second reading stage. It is quite clear from the legislation that the legislation does not have to be proclaimed at any one time; in fact, there is provision for delaying the proclamation. There are different times for proclamation of different parts of this legislation. I hope the Minister will again reconsider some of these points because they are significant. There are people in this community who are not well off and do not have anybody to speak for them, even though we on this side of the House do try to speak for them. Generally speaking they are not vocal and often they are very deserving people. I know that the Minister met last Thursday with a group of doctors and others led by Professor Webster. I have before me a submission from Professor Webster and others associated with the meeting. The point they made in their criticism of this legislation is that certain groups will be specifically adversely affected. I would like the House to think about these groups. They are not necessarily in any particular order. The submission refers to them as follows: 
Migrants: problems of forms, confusion and communication. 
I think that is an important point because forms become necessary. It becomes more difficult for them to make claims and to know what to do about payment of medical fees. Many more of them will now have to attend outpatient departments where often they will have even greater problems in making themselves understood. The submission continues: 
Large families: higher health costs, problems with red tape. 
Aborigines: hard hit by loss of medical services. 
They  will  be hard  hit by  the  loss of  medical services. The submission continues: 
Unemployed: health costs, sense of futility and hopelessness. 
They are already inflicted with this. We have people on the unemployment benefit who are worse off than some aged pensioners who are still entitled to fringe benefits. The total income of a couple entitled to fringe benefits can be in the order of $ 1 3 1 a week including their pension. We have unemployed parents with young families sometimes consisting of a number of children who would not have anything like that income and yet they are not entitled to take advantage of some of the benefits of our health legislation. The same applies to the chronically ill and handicapped who already have continually mounting health costs. They are not classified as invalid pensioners but they are in receipt of the sickness benefit. The sickness benefit is a relatively low benefit. They are not entitled to the pensioner health benefit card and therefore they are not entitled to either free pharmaceutical benefits or help in the form of bulk billing. This applies also to people with special disabilities. I think there is a large number of people in that group. The same applies to single parents. 
I pointed out the other day that there are nearly 800,000 recipients of social security benefits who will no longer be able to benefit from bulk billing. In addition to persons who are actually receiving social security benefits, other people who are poor and who are sick, intermittently ill, sometimes with chronically ill children, are in receipt of very low incomes. They will have great difficulty in coping with the extra costs imposed by the decision taken by this Government. The total saving about which the Government speaks is $ 17m although it tends to change that figure from time to time. Certainly, the original figures we were given were $24m in savings and an extra cost of $7m because of the abolition of bulk billing. I think honourable members will agree that it is a very small saving. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  represents the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this House and he must be aware of the potential extra cost involved in moving people from the health field into the social security field. I feel that this is likely to happen. 
This brings me to the other piece of legislation that we are debating tonight, the Hospitals and Health Services Commission (Repeal) Bill. I support the repeal of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission but not because I was dissatisfied with the sort of thing that it did. I think it did excellent work whilst it was in existence and whilst it was going flat out. The Commission appeared to me to consist of rational people who looked at problems and tried to find rational solutions for them.  Dr Sax,  who was the head of that Commission, did an excellent job and has now been appointed as the head of a new social welfare policy secretariat. That emphasises the relationship between health and social welfare. We are talking about the relationship between health and social welfare because we know that ill health is one of the main contributing factors to persons finishing up on invalid pensions and on other kinds of pensions and benefits, including unemployment benefits and special benefits. It seems to me quite remarkable that having appointed such a person and such a secretariat this Government then introduces legislation which, from the point of view of the Government and the Department of Health, at best will shift costs from the Department of Health to the Department of Social Security. It ignores the sorts of problems and hardships that it will be imposing on those people in the community who are least able to deal with them. I understand that this legislation does not have to be proclaimed immediately; in fact there is provision for certain sections of it not to be proclaimed for some time. 
I hope that, before the Minister gets himself involved in transferring money from expenditure on straight health care to pay for extra people to work- to look at claims, to handle claims and to put things in envelopes- and to pay chemists who have a pharmacy close to a medical practice the extra 60c for filling in claim forms, he will have another look at the matter, talk to people who generally speaking do not support us politically, people such as medical practitioners, and those who work with some of the disadvantaged people in the community, and think about it again. Perhaps he will then come to the same conclusion as the Opposition has come to. We therefore ask him to withdraw the legislation and reintroduce it, omitting the unfair things which it brings about. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. As the spokesman for the Labor Party, the implication seems to be that by opposing front-end deductibles we take some stance on abortion. We no more do so than the Government does by preventing people who belong to Medibank from opting out of abortion - 
-And I am sure that the Government does not take any - 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Interpretation). 
Yesterday when speaking to the legislation I foreshadowed an amendment which I now move. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) reduction of the level of benefits from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee, (b) the abolition of bulk billing for all except eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) the introduction of optional deductible schemes, and be re-introduced immediately to include the other measures. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to indicate clearly that whilst the Opposition has moved the amendment, it will not force the House to a division on it. 
-In addition to some reference, as I understand it, to the question of optional deductibles in clause 7, paragraph (c) of sub-clause (i) prohibits bulk billing for any except eligible pensioners in the case of private medical funds. Whatever argument can be put up for the elimination of bulk billing, I do not agree with its elimination for private funds and I will raise that point in a broader context on the next piece of legislation where it applies to Medibank patients. As far as private patients are concerned, if this Government believes that bulk billing costs extra money, it is fair enough to knock it out of Medibank where the taxpayer pays for it, but in this case the Government is imposing a condition on a private fund to eliminate bulk billing. We all agree that we do not have enough information on it, whether it is beneficial or the opposite, as far as health insurance and health care costs are concerned. If a fund is prepared to continue bulk billing, obviously it must believe that it has benefits from that fund 's point of view and the fund is mainly concerned with financial benefits. We would get some sort of figures from them. 
I emphasise that there would be no cost involved to the taxpayer because it is a proposal by a private fund. That particular private fund is not subsidised as far as medical benefits are concerned. So why should we say that we will no longer register a fund if that private fund of its own volition decides to continue with bulk billing? I would like to get a reply from the Minister on this because it seems to me to go in some ways to some of the so-called fundamental beliefs of the Liberal Party, certainly the fundamentally stated beliefs of the Liberal Party that we ought to have competition, free enterprise and alternatives. Why eliminate that alternative? When it does not cost the taxpayer anything, why not allow the funds to do exactly that? 
-This clause is the first of a number of clauses which deal with the introduction of deductibles. 1 will not speak again to the other clauses. I indicate that the Opposition opposes clauses 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 15, some of which deal with deductibles. I would quickly like to summarise the Opposition's argument on the question of deductibles. Before doing so- because during the division there was all this confrontation dealing with one particular aspect of deductibles- 1 would like just quickly to state the Opposition's point of view. 
-This clause deals with bulk billing for optometrists. The Opposition indicates its opposition to the abolition of bulk billing in this case as it did for medical practitioners. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Again, this clause deals with optional deductibles. The Opposition indicates its opposition. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 (Interpretation). 
-Again, exactly the same argument applies. It introduces the question of optional deductibles. The Opposition opposes the clause but will not divide the House on it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Conditions of Registration). 
-Again I indicate that this clause deals with deductibles. The Opposition opposes the clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Guidelines for medical and hospital benefits plans). 
I very quickly indicate that this clause deals with deductibles. The Opposition opposes the principle of deductibles and therefore opposes this clause and the Schedule to the Bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I think that this is an important change that has been introduced. I wish to refer to an important point in clause 5 which deals with procedures in legislation committees. I feel strongly about this matter. I think that there can be some benefit coming out of these committees to persuade us to rational argument and to have some intelligent compromise reached or possibly even realisation on the part of the Government occasionally that some intelligent propositions can be put forward by the Opposition. What I object to is that the procedures observed in the committee of the whole shall be followed with very few exceptions. It worries me that, in effect, the committees will be limited to two set speeches. I think it is an excellent idea to have a time limit. Is that right? 
Can you speak any number of times? 
-I withdraw my opposition. 
No. 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Health and refers to the Government's decision to increase from $2 to $2.50 the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits items. Is the Minister aware that one of the by-products of this will be that those items for which the Goverment now pays chemists an amount of between $2 and $2.50 will now become much more expensive to the patient as the dispensing fee charged by the chemists will increase? Is the Minister aware that such common items as Penicillin capsules and tablets for children, Butazolidin, Mogadon, Fergon and many others will now cost well over $3? Does he know how many items will be affected? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt),  in answer to a question from an honourable member opposite at Question Time today, referred to a newspaper article in yesterday's Melbourne  Herald  where I was alleged to have said that I found him depressing. Whilst I do not necessarily disagree with that, what I said to the newspaper was that I had asked a question on 8 May arising out of a  Four Corners  program shown during the previous weekend where an officer of his Department representing the National Health and Medical Research Council had performed rather badly in regard to questions dealing with pesticides. I said that in reply to my question on 8 May the Minister had said that he would provide me with a fuller answer. When asked about the matter yesterday by the Melbourne  Herald  reporter, I said that I found it depressing that the Minister had not yet given me a fuller answer on the question of the use of these pesticides. 
-I would like very briefly to indicate our opposition to the clause. It again deals with organisations which are proposing to operate the optional deductibles plan. I have already gone through the position regarding the termination of pregnancies but it has just been pointed out to me by one of the Opposition members that maybe it is not clearly understood. I cite as an example the position concerning the Hibernian Society because it is one of the hospital and medical benefit funds that have applied to operate an optional deductibles plan. A woman who belongs to the Hibernian Society does so on the understanding that she will no longer be paid for the termination of a pregnancy. That is fair enough. But the Government is being hypocritical about this matter. It knows very well that if a woman who is a subscriber to the Hibernian Society wants to have a pregnancy terminated all she has to do is allow her financial standing with the Hibernian Society to lapse some weeks before she decides to have that termination. Payment for that termination will then be picked up by Medibank because as soon as one becomes unfinancial in a private fund one is automatically covered by the Medibank levy. So nobody takes any risks. I indicate to the feminists, the women who are getting all excited about the fact that their members will not be paid for the termination of a pregnancy if they belong to a fund which bans payments for such terminations, that if they want to terminate a pregnancy all they have to do is indicate quite clearly that they are no longer financial members of a particular fund which excludes payments for the operation. As soon as their financial membership of that organisation lapses they are covered by Medibank. 
-No, I am not saying all of them, but some of them who have raised it. 
-The ones who raised it. There are only two or three who have raised it. I think most of them realise as well as we do that this is not the big issue on the question of deductibles. The women who are excited about not being able to get paid will be able to get paid by just dropping their membership of a private fund. It will then be picked up by Medibank and, of course, the opposite argument applies to those who want to feel that they are not contributing in a voluntary sense to the payment for termination of pregnancies for conscientious reasons and therefore they want to join a particular fund which does not cover that contingency. 
-I am not urging the Government to do that. I do not think that is indicated. I want to conclude by indicating clearly that we oppose clause 5 but we will not divide the House on it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Registation) 
-Clause 11 deals with the increase in patient contribution from $2 to $2.50 for pharmaceutical benefits. I asked the Minister a question this morning about the problem in addition to the straight-out problem as the ordinary member of the public sees it- that he will now be paying 25 per cent extra for his pharmaceutical benefits. I asked the Minister this morning how many items are affected, and he has been kind enough to give me an answer this afternoon indicating that about 220 items will no longer be available as general pharmaceutical benefits as from 1 July 1978 with the increase in patient contributions. The point that I want to raise, which has not received any publicity outside, is that on an item which at present attracts a refund to the chemist of between $2 and $2.50, when this Government increases the charge to $2.50, the item is removed from the list of items for the general public! The net result of that is not a charge of $2.50 or, for example, $2.14. 
Let us take a specific example- Mogadon tablets. For 25 tablets the present refund to the chemist on filling a prescription is $2.14. That will become a charge to the patient of somewhere between $3.07 and $3.37 instead of the present $2 after 1 July 1978. The reason for that is that the Government, because it is a large contractor with pharmacists, gets a special discount in dispensing fees and mark ups on prescriptions which are issued under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The dispensing fee is increased to $2 when it leaves the pharmaceutical benefits list and the mark up increases. As I understand it there are some chemists who charge a 33 per cent mark up, some 50 per cent and some 66 per cent. To a large extent it varies with the amount of competition in the area and according to the type of area. That is why I say that, as I understand it from a friend who is a pharmacist, the increase will be to $3.07 or $3.37. That is a significant increase, from $2 for a prescription to over $3. 
It will apply to a large number of items. The Minister says 220 items. I have not gone through the list completely but I have picked out some of them. One of the important ones is, for example, penicillin for children, in tablet and capsule form. At present the refund to the chemist is $2.27. The payment by the patient, or the mother of the child who receives the medication, is $2. That will now go up to about $3.50 or more. That is a huge increase in the case of a child who is suffering from a fairly chronic condition. I agreed with the Minister yesterday- I am not sure whether it was during the debate on the Bill or in reply to a question- when he emphasised that doctors can give prescriptions for a month in the case of chronic conditions. Many doctors do not take advantage of that. I repeatedly receive letters from people about this matter. I have even gone to the trouble of photo-copying the appropriate page of the pharmaceutical benefits booklet so that when I reply to people who write to me on the matter I can show them just what they can ask their doctor to do. It is important to realise that amongst the 220 items affected are mogadon, lomotil fergon, rectinol, and amitryptiline type of tablets such as tryptanol, clinistix, some antihistamines, eye ointments, many cortisone ointments, butazolidin and, as I said earlier, penicillin tablets and capsules for children. I state again that this will represent a great imposition of extra cost on people who are already bearing extra cost because of the other changes which the Government is introducing as from 1 July 1978. 1 think it is important that members of the Australian community be aware of this and do not blame the chemists for what will happen. There is a tendency on the part of the Government to try to blame chemists for the result of this move. I assume that it is too late to ask the Minister to postpone the proclamation of this clause in the legislation. I strongly indicate the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to this clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 14- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 15 (Consequential amendments). 
I want to formalise the opposition of the Labor Party to this clause which reduces the benefit from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and increases the maximum gap for those doctors charging the scheduled fee from $5 to $ 10 per item. I think it is important to emphasise the fact that this gap is applicable to each item. If a person has an operation a number of items could be involved. There is the item for the surgeon, the item for the assistant and the item for the anaesthetist. The surgeon may in fact perform a number of operations and, as I understand it, there is a $ 10 charge for each item. I am not a supporter of fee for service surgery in public hospitals, certainly not in private hospitals, and therefore I cannot get terribly excited about it. If people are silly enough to opt for fee for service surgery, perhaps they deserve to pay $50, $60 or $100 from now on as their contribution. I think they ought to be warned about it and perhaps it will encourage them to enter hospitals as standard patients. 
The other point I want to emphasise is a point I made earlier. For some reason the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  either did not hear it or pretended that he did not understand it. It is the point that this really means an increase in the levy. The Government has been emphasising that it has not incresed the levy. But the real cost of the levy has increased. Until now for the 2.5 per cent levy which we paid we recieved a refund of 85 per cent. From now on it will be a refund of 75 per cent. We will receive about 12 per cent less. Therefore, obviously, the levy should have been reduced had the Government wanted to keep the refund at the same rate. In passing I would refer also to the Government's hypocrisy- although I do not necessarily oppose this matter. It trumpeted very loudly at the introduction of this legislation that doctors would cooperate with the Government and treat eligible pensioners, as defined under the Act, for 75 per cent of the fee. I note that in the legislation which was finally introduced yesterday, the medical benefit will still be calculated on the basis of 85 per cent in the case of eligible pensioners. 
It is up to 85 per cent. The Minister says that he will now start to negotiate with the Australian Medical Association, the Australian Optometrical Association and the Austraiian Dental Association- I think they were the three bodies he mentioned- to get them to reduce the rate. I would be interested to see what kind of organisation would agree to a reduction when the legislation provides for a higher figure. Obviously neigher the AMA nor, for that matter, any of the other organisations would agree to a lesser figure once the Government has legislated for a figure of 85 per cent. They would be fairly silly if they did. They are supposed to represent the interests of their members and I have no doubt whatever that they will continue to collect their 85 per cent. The Opposition does not object to that; it objects to the fact that the rest of the population will not be able to receive the same refund. 
-Clause 7 abolishes bulk billing for Medibank patients. In the piece of legislation that was passed earlier by this House the Government abolished bulk billing as a condition for registration in regard to the private funds, but here we are dealing with Medibank patients. I would like to read an editorial in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  The  Sydney Morning Herald  is a newspaper which does not normally support the Opposition, but on this occasion we have convinced it of the merit of our case. I feel certain that the Minister is also convinced of that. It is a pity that the author of this legislation is overseas and is probably not reading the editorials of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  The editorial is headed 'Bulk billing queries'. It reads: 
When the Federal Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  announced his latest package of changes to the health insurance system a fortnight ago, he had little to say in justification of his announcement that direct (or bulk) billing arrangements were to be abolished, except for people entitled to pensioner health benefits. He merely said that the move was designed to reduce fraud and the over-provision of health services. It was part of his broad plan to control the rapidly rising costs of health care. 
Since then, criticism of the decision to abolish bulk billing has mounted- and with good reason. To begin with,  Mr Hunt  was forced into the damaging admission that the move would cost an extra $7m- a strange way to cut costs. Then it was pointed out that, although some fraud had been found in the bulk billing process, it was relatively easy to detect. In addition, it was seriously questioned whether the process had been responsible for over-use of medical services. There is some evidence that the exact opposite is the case. 
On what, then, does the Government base its decision? If  Mr Hunt  has facts to back it, he should produce them. He has at his disposal a commissioned report on bulk billing, but so far has refused to release it on the ground that it is an internal working document. That is simply not good enough. There are now serious doubts whether the decision can be justified, and four Sydney doctors have gone so far as to see  Mr Hunt  and put their arguments to him. They report that they have had a good hearing. 
Their case is impressive. It points to those who will be badly hit- migrants, large families, Aborigines and the unemployed. It claims that many will be deterred from seeking early treatment and thus will need hospital treatment later on at much greater expense. And it maintains that the geographical pattern of general practitioners will be distorted. The Government says it is concerned to help those who cannot help themselves. It is? Why, then, make life much harder for the unemployed, Aborigines, migrants and large families? 
That is the full editorial of the  Sydney Morning Herald  today. I think it expresses the point of view which we have expressed and which I expressed last night. I did not think the  Sydney Morning Herald  had read my speech last night. It certainly did not give it any run in its news pages. 
But I am quite happy if it uses it as the basis for an editorial. I appeal to the Minister for Health that clauses 7 and 9 of this Bill, which deal with bulk billing by medical practitioners and optometrists, not be proclaimed. 
That is the only reference I will really make to them, if it presents difficulty. We oppose clauses 7 and 9, which seek to remove the bulk billing arrangement. 
-May I raise one point on this clause? The Opposition does not oppose clause 8, which deals with the Minister declaring in the Government  Gazette  that a person is not acceptable because he has not got the training or because proper medical or surgical facilities are not available to him. When such a person is practising as a medical practitioner in an overseas country Australians temporarily resident in that country shall not get refunds. The clause is aimed obviously at Milan Brych in the Cook Islands. The only point I wish to emphasise on behalf of the Opposition is that, although we do not disagree with the aim of the legislation, it is terribly important that people receive adequate warning before they leave for the Cook Islands that they will not get a refund. 
As I understand the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  once the Gazette publishes the name of a person who is no longer acceptable as a prescribed person, in other words as a medical practitioner for whose service a patient is entitled to a refund, 30 days warning will be given. There ought to be a method of notifying people and ensuring that if the person is carrying out some son of practice which takes more than 30 days, as Brych may be doing in the Cook Islands, the time is extended. This would ensure that people who are already there would not be harmed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Common form of undertaking). 
-I do not want the House to have to go into Committee on this Bill but I wish to make two points. The Opposition supports the propositions in this legislation which looks at the matter from the Treasury point of view and corrects some anomalies, although some still exist. I am sure that other honourable members have received letters from persons who have been recently married or for some reason, having been married already, still take out separate health cover. One takes out a health cover with a private fund and the other is covered by levy. They get a shock at the end of the year when, even though the wife, say, has been covered by a private fund, the husband receives an assessment at the family rate when they have no children. I think that sort of anomaly ought to be avoided. It ought to be possible for married people to take different sorts of cover. The husband may want to take one form of cover and the wife another. The difficulty would arise in the case of children because it would be possible for people to pay only a single levy under those conditions. I know that it is difficult. It was an anomaly that was brought in by the Government's introduction of the new system back in October 1976. 
The other point I wish to make relates to the question of declaring that persons do not have to pay the levy if they are overseas visitors to Australia and belong to an overseas health fund which gives them adequate health care cover in Australia. One of the interesting points that raises is what is adequate health care cover, because it varies from State to State. In answer to my question on notice No. 843, the Minister's reply on 1 June showed that the different States charged different amounts of money. My question asked: 
Are visitors to Australia charged for treatment as hospital patients in recognised public hospitals? If so, what is the daily charge? 
Obviously whether one has foreign health cover that is adequate depends on the charges, and the charges vary from State to State. Basically, the States subsidise overseas visitors, charging them only $40 or $60 a day. Remarkably enough, a State which I do not usually support in this House, the State of Queensland, is the only one that actually charges what it ought to charge; that is, the daily average cost per in-patient for the previous financial year in the hospital concerned. That seems to me to be a reasonable proposition. I think that the Northern Territory does something approaching that but no other State does it, including the Australian Capital Territory. The same situation applies as far as compensation cases are concerned. 
The Minister may well have difficulty in coming to a conclusion about what is adequate health care cover. I know that Australians overseas have that difficulty when they have a cover from the Medical Benefits Fund, let us say, with an entitlement to $40 a day. If they are admitted to a hospital in Europe that country charges them the actual cost of a hospital bed. In Holland and West Germany, which are the only two examples I can give with certainty, the cost of a hospital bed is the same as it is here, about $140 a day. Australian visitors to those countries who are admitted to hospital are charged $ 1 40 and get a refund of only $40. The West German and Dutch governments and hospital authorities are well aware of this and insist that, for example, if a patient goes in for a appendicectomy, he must pay $1,000 before he enters hospital to ensure that he will not disappear back to Australia without having paid his fee. 
That is very difficult for many Australian visitors overseas, and I therefore urge the Minister to look at the problem of Australians having what is really inadequate cover for hospitalisation because we subsidise hospitals to such a large extent. Secondly, I ask the Minister to look at the charges imposed by the States on people covered by foreign health schemes to ascertain whether the States should collect the full cost of hospitalisation. After all, the deficit is being picked up by the Australian taxpayer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
How many persons in the Northern Territory are covered by (a) Medibank levy and (b) Medibank Private. 
Are claims on Medibank in the Northern Territory dealt with locally or referred to Adelaide. 
What is the delay on payment for doctors bulk-billing in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Pro  ductivity, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Did the Whitlam Government adopt a Code of General Principles in Occupational Safety and Health in Commonwealth Employment in 1 974. 
If so, what progress has been made with this Code. 
When will the Government implement the Code. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 June 1 978: 
Has the Government considered the Report of the independent inquiry into Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
Which of the 36 recommendations (a) have been accepted; (b) have been rejected or (c) are still under consideration. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of general practitioner consultations covered by (a) Medibank and (b) Medibank Private during any 3 month periods for which figures are available, were (i) brief; (ii) standard; (iii) long and; (iv) prolonged consultations. 
) Are similar figures available from any of the larger private health funds. 
-by leave-I would like to deal with a number of points raised in the ministerial statement by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It is not easy to make an absolute judgment on these new proposals within about an hour of receiving notice of them, but I will try to do so. Undoubtedly, new aspects will be drawn to my attention and the attention of other honourable members during the next few days as we look at the ramifications of what is proposed, and I might well change my mind about the proposition. 
In some ways it is deplorable that this and other aspects of the Budget were leaked completely to the Press. I think this is wrong in principle. I do not think that the leaking of the Budget health proposals matters much; nobody could have gained a significant financial benefit from knowing of them before they were announced. But the leak applied not only to health aspects but also to other proposals from which there was a possibility of people making money. I therefore deplore the leaking of the Budget content. When the story of the new health care arrangements appeared yesterday in the  Sydney Morning Herald  and in the  Australian Financial Review  I did not believe it. I will explain why I did not believe it. I assumed that any new arrangements announced in the Budget or any alterations arising from it would come within the parameter of the Government's efforts to save money. I did not realise that the Government was trying to pump more money into the health care system. I will not criticise the Government for this. 
As the Minister for Health and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  have pointed out, in a full year the extra cost involved in the alterations to the system is estimated to be $62 lm- $305m in added Budget outlays and a reduction of $3 1 6m in receipts because of the abolition of the health insurance levy. That is a huge amount of money for a government which I notice is going in for taxing a number of benefits, such as the tuberculosis allowance, which will yield only $3m or $5m in a full year. That is why I did not accept that move as a likely change. The explanation for the change appears in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. Dealing with health, in the second paragraph, he said: 
We have therefore decided upon several major changes to existing arrangements which, while producing an immediately adverse Budgetary effect, are more consistent with our longer-term objectives in this area and remove much of the confusion and complexity from present arrangements. 
I knew that some members of the Government, especially the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  were very keen on ideology but I did not think that they would be prepared to pay $62 lm in any one year for an ideological proposition concerning universal health insurance. What in fact has been done? In some ways this situation is a return to what we of the Australian Labor Party had. I know that in some ways it is different. Under our scheme that was in operation until 1 October 1976 people did not have to pay a levy. They were entitled to free standard hospital care and 85 per cent of their medical costs, with the maximum expenditure being $5 per item. This Government then introduced a levy of 2.5 per cent, which encouraged over 50 per cent of the population to leave Medibank. What the Government has done now is to remove that levy which, by the time the change was introduced, had operated for only two years. But the patient will still get free standard hospital treatment. Instead of receiving 85 per cent of medical costs the patient will receive only 40 per cent, and the maximum patient contribution per service will be $20. 
It is difficult to criticise this proposition absolutely and to see no benefits in a proposal which, in effect, saves the taxpayer in the first instance in one way or another- or the people who take advantage of it- $62 1 m. It is not easy to just say that $62 lm will be paid and that it is all bad. I draw the attention of the House in a reasonable and rational approach to some of the difficulties that will arise. To my mind the first difficulty is that there will be no point in joining a medical or hospital fund unless the contributor is terribly keen on having a doctor of his own choice because it will now be much more expensive for him to do so. The subsidised hospital only insurance is being discontinued. Therefore whilst people were being encouraged to pay the levy and then to pay $ 1 35 a year extra for a family so as to get treatment by a doctor of their choice in a public hospital, they will now not be given that insurance in a subsidised form. It has been suggested that the extra cost will be 75c a week but as a calculation is not shown I cannot comment on it. However, it will certainly be more expensive. The contributor will get only that alleged doctor of choice benefit for which at present he pays $135 a year. My suggestion to most people would be not to insure themselves. It is difficult to tell that to people but if they think about it reasonably and rationally I think they will agree with me. It is certainly the sort of thing which I have done until now and which I have advised other people to do. Until now it has cost me the ceiling of the levy. Without contributing anything from now on the patient will get free hospitalisation in a standard ward and 40 per cent of medical fees. On top of that, if one is well off in the community one gets a 33 per cent tax rebate on one's medical and hospital expenses. 
I think it is an unfair aspect that the 10 per cent or so of the community who are able to exceed the automatic tax deduction of about $1,600 a year will be able to get from now on a  33Vi  per cent discount on whatever medical fees they are paying above the 40 per cent and that others will not be able to do so. This is not fair in equity, but in any case it is another encouragement for people not to join a private fund. It was not clear from the Minister's speech, because he kept on referring to people who at present pay the levy, whether people will be able to take advantage of that provision only if they pay the levy at present. I asked him earlier whether anybody can make that choice, and it appears from his speech that anybody will be able to make the choice, even people who at present belong to private funds. My own view would be that people ought to leave those private funds before or on 1 November and take advantage of what the Government is offering. 
I have some specific criticism to make which some people may consider to be nit picking, but I do not think that it really is. I refer to the question of the Health Insurance Commission and the abolition of the Health Insurance Commission as far as Medibank Standard is concerned. On 24 May the Minister announced the intention to abolish bulk billing, and early in June the Parliament passed legislation to that effect.  Mr Williams  in a letter to the Minister's staff said that the staff increase required by the Health Insurance Commission, which it would start recruiting, to handle the increased work load that this change would bring about, was approximately 390. That was due to the elimination of direct billing for all Medibank Standard nonpensioner patients. The Commission started to recruit that staff. Then the Minister about three weeks ago announced that in fact bulk billing will still continue for certain groups in the community, depending on doctors being prepared to accept 75 per cent of the schedule fee. So the Commission obviously did not need an extra 390 staff members; it may have needed an extra 100 or 200. Now the Health Insurance Commission is being abolished altogether so far as Medibank 
Standard is concerned. I notice that the Minister slipped in a few extra words to those contained in the copy of the speech which I have. At page 12 of the speech which was circulated this passage appears: 
It does seem, however, that some of the present employees of the Health Insurance Commission will be surplus to requirements. 
In other words, they will lose their jobs. In his actual speech he said:  lt does seem, however, that some- indeed a considerable number- of the present employees of the Health Insurance Commission will be surplus to requirements. 
So I suppose it is a muck-up. It is bungling, quite signifiant bungling, caused by political interference with the Health Insurance Commission. A couple of months ago the Government decided that the Commission needed more staff. Now the Government has decided that the Commission does not need any extra staff. I think that is rather poor. 
Complications will arise from people leaving the funds. Certainly young and healthy persons, especially males, would be quite silly to take out private health insurance because the likelihood of their having to pay a significant amount of money in any one year on hospital and medical fees is very low. So obviously they would be quite silly not to settle for standard ward treatment in hospitals for nothing and the greater of 40 per cent of schedule medical fees or the amount of schedule medical fees less $20. It would be quite silly to insure oneself in any one year to cover a $20 maximum payment on any one thing. Of course, the net result of that is what we have discussed previously. The Minister has realised and the papers submitted to the Minister reveal that the Government is destroying the average pool that exists as far as health insurance is concerned. If we pull out from the pool the people who collect relatively little in health insurance, the net result will be that the people who are left in the pool are the people who are more likely to collect money, the higher risk group in the community, and obviously the contribution rates will have to be increased by the funds. This is one of the difficulties. I think in the end one has the philosophical attitude- I certainly have it- that the whole community should contribute towards the health costs of those who have larger families and sicker families- some members of the family are chronically ill- and who therefore have to take out extra insurance. The Government is going against that philosophy, and I think it is even going against the advice of organisations such as the Australian Medical Association and the funds themselves. It distorts the pool and it removes the concept that the better off and the healthier in the community ought to be contributing towards the health and hospital costs of those who are sicker. 
As I see it another difficulty is the definition of a low income and socially disadvantaged person for whom the doctor can bulk bill. I assume such a person cannot be defined and that it will depend purely on whether doctors are prepared to accept 75 per cent bulk billing from persons instead of collecting 40 per cent from the Commonwealth and hoping that they will get the extra 60 per cent from the patient. My own advice would be that people should exert a lot of pressure on doctors to accept the 75 per cent bulk billing. It is possible to spread that bulk billing, provided there are some doctors prepared to bulk bill for the 75 per cent. More and more doctors are coming onto the market. I know it has been argued that the more doctors there are the more it actually costs in the long run. That argument may be partly true. In fact new doctors coming into areas, in order to establish themselves, will accept 75 per cent of the fee on a bulk billing basis, and hopefully other doctors will be forced to accept that. If that in fact happens the Government, of course, will be up for much more than the $62 lm that it has calculated. I do not know on what basis the Government has calculated or estimated the cost of bulk billing for low income and socially disadvantaged people. I would think that the Government has just grabbed a figure out of the air. Maybe the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who in the last couple of weeks has been occupied with other matters, has not noticed that departmental officers may have queried that figure. 
I predict that the Government will get itself into more and more financial strife by introducing these changes. The Government's proposals are unfair to some of the lower income groups in the community such as those families who will need to insure themselves because they require a lot of medical attention. It is the total of the services in their cases which makes it necessary for them to take out insurance. I am talking of large families, of which one or more members have some sort of chronic condition, who do not have access to doctors who bulk bill. These families will have to take out extra insurance. The cost to them will be greater than it has been when they have paid the levy. However, at the same time, the cost to the Government will increase. I predict that within a very short time the Government will try to introduce means tests in respect of hospitals. Hopefully it will get into trouble with the States, especially the State Treasurers, if it tries to do that. The Government will try to introduce means tests because the cost of hospitalisation will be so great without money coming back by way of the levy. I believe that there will be a steady reduction in respect of the 40 per cent Commonwealth refund on medical services so as to reduce the Commonwealth contribution. This in summary is my criticism, and hopefully a reasoned criticism, of the amendments that have been proposed. 
I conclude by saying that the Prime Minister said: 'We are not going to interfere with Medibank, we are not going to abolish Medibank'. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Health as recently as May this year said: Whatever we do we will keep a universal health scheme under which everybody has to take out some sort of insurance '. 
They have changed their minds on both those issues during the last few weeks when this decision was taken. It is just another episode which illustrates quite clearly that one cannot trust the members of the Fraser Ministry when they make what appear to be absolute statements as to long-term attitudes on services which are provided by government. I hope that the discussion on this issue will continue. I hope that we will get more details from the Minister for Health and more figures, as promised in his speech, so that we will be able to make an intelligent judgment as to whether the figures are true or are predictions that have just been pulled out of the air. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on5 April 1978: 
What were the countries of origin of the 300,000 persons admitted into Australia as refugees or from refugee-type situations since 1945. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General in the House of Representatives, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) Is Alexander Emil Vrisakis registered as a solicitor in the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales. 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr Justice  Holland in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 17 March 1978 that there was a prima facie case of a breach of fiduciary duty by  Mr Vrisakis  both as a partner and as a legal adviser and further by a failure to disclose or draw attention to the fact that he was receiving preferential treatment in a deed of guarantee. 
Can the Attorney-General say whether over 400 members of the public lost $3,500 each as the result of  Mr Vrisakis  'action. 
Can the Attorney-General also say whether  Mr Vrisakis  was a prominent opponent of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975 introduced by the Whitlam Government, but not passed by the Senate. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
With regard to the contributions by registered hospital benefit organisations to the Hospital Benefits Reinsurance Trust Fund referred to in his answer to question No. 844  (Hansard,  9 May 1978, p. 2106) (a) what was the membership of each of these organisations at the relevant time and (b) what was the contribution per member in each case, over the period covered. 
-In dealing with the Appropriation Bill tonight I should like firstly to point up the Government's failure to live up to its own self-image. The Government has a self-image, even if it does not have such an image in the community, of being a government which reduces personal income tax. It is interesting to note that personal income tax this year will increase by $686m. It is a government which has claimed continuously since it came to power that it will reduce taxation, yet in the three Fraser Budgets taxation receipts have increased by 17 per cent, 9.8 per cent and 1 1 per cent respectively and there has been a total increase of 42.6 per cent. The Government also has a self-image of being opposed to deficits. The deficits of the three Labor Budgets presented in 1973, 1974 and 1975 added up to $6,445m compared with the deficits of the three Fraser Budgets, which total $8,886m. That figure is $2,441m higher. It is admitted now and we all know that the deficit in the current Budget is under-estimated by at least $600m. The Government certainly does not live up to its own self-image. 
I shall deal next with the failure of the Government to show equity and justice in the changes it brings about. It is easier in some ways to deal with those changes, before I come to how they affect the family, by referring to the editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 22 August. It attacks the Government for its lack of equity. It states: 
Treasurer Howard sought to put the increase in income tax charges in its best possible light by his description of the changes. 
The editorial then quotes the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  as saying: 
The standard rate of personal income tax will be increased by1½ per cent . . . there will be corresponding increases, to 47½ per cent and 61½ per cent, at higher levels of income. 
The editorial continues: 
Only by having a non-mathematical mind and a truly finely attuned political calculator can it be said that that statement is a true reflection of the situation. 
The increase is of the order of 1½ cents in the dollar- not 1½ percent. 
At the lower end of the scale this represents an increase of 5 per cent- it will be actually 8 per cent when collected out of the pay-packet because the Government will collect 12 months pay over a period of eight months . . . 
At the highest range of income-tax payments the Howard increase is half in percentage terms of that levied on the lowest rung. It is 2.5 per cent and5 per cent for the period after November. 
This shift in the burden of equity was neither acknowledged, explained nor justified in the Budget. 
Another probably more inflammatory area of equity juggling without explanation occurs in the Howard proposals to tax accumulated leave and long-service leave but not lumpsum payments. 
The Asprey inquiry into taxation looked at this very difficult area of tax policy in its report on the taxation system. It pointed to the way in which retiring executives were able to exploit the tax laws by having lump-sum golden handshakes taxed on only 5 per cent of their value. 
We have introduced that fact into this House. The editorial continues: 
Such executives, the committee pointed out, usually received 'very large amounts' from the companies' superannuation funds and also were often under service contracts. 
The committee - 
That is the Asprey Committee-  recommended the phasing in of a system which led to the taxation of all lump-sum payments. 
In the Howard Budget this practice is left untouched. Instead, the Government announced it would tax accumulated holiday leave and accumulated long-service leave. 
These two items represent to many in the lower-income groups their only superannuation arrangements. They are all that they can accumulate in the way of a lump-sum payment  on severance or retirement. 
Their rather tiny lump sums are now to be taxed. Golden handshakes remain protected from the depredations of the Tax Commissioner. 
Surely this is completely contrary to any equitable proposition. Then there was the proposition to tax family allowances concerning many children who are worse off than many others. It is interesting to note the newspaper response to the Budget. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that everybody supports the Budget. If everybody supports the Budget one would certainly expect the editors of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  to support it. That newspaper carried an article headed 'Prophet of Gloom'. It stated: 
In his first Budget, Treasurer John Howard has proved a prophet of gloom. 
He has done nothing to inspire the recovery and reconstruction of the Australian economy. 
He has done nothing to encourage the Australian people to work harder. 
We will not only be paying higher taxes. We will be paying more for almost everything we buy. 
It is a mean Budget. 
And it is a Budget of broken promises. 
An editorial in the same newspaper stated: 
It is a mean and heartless Budget. 
It reduces in real terms the amount of money to be spent on public schools but gives an increase to private schools. 
That is not usually the line of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  The editorial continues: 
It is a Budget of broken promises. 
The Government has broken its promises to reduce taxation; it has broken its promise to maintain Medibank; it has broken its promise not to phase out the means test. 
It will be a long time before the people of Australia forget this. 
Let us hope that it will also be a long dme before the editor of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  forgets this. The Sydney  Daily Mirror,  from the same stable, had an editorial which was headed 'A bloody disgrace '. It read: 
Last night's Mother Hubbard Budget gives us poor dogs of taxpayers not so much as a bone. 
Let alone a chance of pulling the nation out of the economic bog, a job the Government doesn't appear to be handling with any brilliance. 
Look past, if you can, the savagery of Canberra's assault on your spending power- the higher taxes, the slugs on petrol,, cigarettes and liquor, the dubious conjuring tricks with Medibank- and what sort of a Budget do you find? 
The editorial summarises the Budget by saying: It's a bloody disgrace'. Last Friday the  Australian Financial Review  had an interesting commentary on the health scheme. If I have time I will deal with it later. The Sydney  Sun,  from a different stable, yesterday had a large headline: Don't tax blind- pension plea*. The article bitterly attacked the Federal Government's decision to tax invalid pensions for blind people. The Sydney  Sun,  again of yesterday, had an article by Roger Bush. I think it is the exReverend Roger Bush, who must be the greatest hypocrite ever to write for any newspaper. Under the heading: 'Please,  Mr Fraser,  lay off the kids' - 
-Roger Bush probably would be in good company with the honourable member for St George. I have no doubt that they work together. Even a person such as Roger Bush is not prepared to support this Budget. Brian White, of radio station 2SM, has strongly opposed the Budget. Let us deal now with a group of people who have generally supported this Budget. Today's  Australian Financial Review  contains a letter from  Mrs Joan  Adamson, the National  President  of the Women's Action Alliance of Nunawading in Victoria- a very conservative organisation. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard.  It has been shown previously to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner). 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

BUDGET AN INTOLERABLE BURDEN ON THE FAMILY 

 Sir, The Liberal Party has always professed to be a party that recognised the value of the family unit. 
On Tuesday, August 15, the Fraser Liberal Government showed in its actions, if not its words, that it no longer recognised the family unit as an important social or economic unit. 
In its attempts to balance the nation's budget, the Government robbed the family budget. 
The Government's action will have the effect of placing extra, and intolerable, financial burdens on many families. 
The abolition of the maternity allowance, the decision to tax family allowances for students receiving scholarships, the increases in taxes and in petrol, the cuts in the national school dental scheme, the failure to increase and index family allowances will hit family budgets very hard. 
An inevitable by-product of these decisions will be that many more families will need to become dual income families. It is the only way that many families will make ends meet. 
In the next few months the Government can expect an influx of married women into the paid work market. 
This will mean that there will be even fewer jobs available for school leavers at the end of the year than there would otherwise have been. 

 Mr Howard's prediction that unemployment will rise during the next year will almost certainly be proved true. 
Figures released earlier this year by the Bureau of Statistics showed that 16.5 per cent of those young people aged 15-19 years were unemployed. 
In the next 12 months we can expect that figure to increase until approximately one in every five young people is unemployed. 
Yet, while it has robbed the family budget and increased financial pressures on families, the savings the Government will make from its changes in this area are meagre. 
The abolition of the maternity allowance saves only $7.2 m (on 1977-78 figures), the cuts in the school dental scheme save S4.9m and the administrative costs of taxing family allowances will be high in relation to the amount to be saved. 
And while it has made these changes which adversely affect the family, the Government will still continue to pay a maternity allowance to the Canberra bureaucrats which is worth $2,400 to a woman on $200 a week. 
The Government will also provide $32. 3m for institutionalised child care and $1 1.5m for the Family (Divorce) Law Court. 
It seems that not only is the Government financially pressuring the family, but that it is also going out of its way to encourage mothers to leave their children and enter the paid workforce. 
The Government's sense of priorities is certainly warped. 
This Budget is clearly a direct attack on families and on family life. 
It will have an adverse effect on family budgets, on young people seeking jobs and on family life by forcing both parents into the paid workforce and thus splitting families even more than they are now. 
History may well record this Budget as being the most anti-family Budget ever brought down by any Australian Government. 
Had the Government had a different set of priorities and wanted to help the family unit, then it would have at least maintained the maternity allowance at its 1977-78 level, decided that under no circumstances would it have taxed family allowances and certainly it would have increased and indexed family allowances.  (Mrs) Joan Adamson, 
National President, Women's Action Alliance, Nunawading, Vic. 
Let me quote a couple of sentences from that letter. The letter commences: 
The Liberal Party has always professed to be a party that recognised the value of the family unit. 
On Tuesday, August 15, the Fraser Liberal Government showed in its actions, if not its words, that it no longer recognised the family unit as an important social or economic unit. 
The letter continues: 
The abolition of the maternity allowance, the decision to tax family allowances for students receiving scholarships, the increases in taxes and in petrol, the cuts in the national school dental scheme, the failure to increase and index family allowances will hit family budgets very hard. 
Later on the letter states: 
This Budget is clearly a direct attack on families and on family life. 

 Mrs Adamson concludes by stating: 
Had the Government had a different set of priorities and wanted to help the family unit, then it would have at least maintained the maternity allowance at its 1 977-78 level, decided that under no circumstances would it have taxed family allowances and certainly it would have increased and indexed family allowances. 
I completely agree with  Mrs Adamson  at least on this occasion. I have updated a table which I have previously had incorporated in  Hansard.  It shows the loss to the family taxpayer because of the failure of this Government to index the family allowance. I ask for leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808236_57_0.jpg"></graphic>

In the table I have compared the cumulative tax rebate which has been lost since the Government abolished the tax rebate which was introduced in the 1975-76 Hayden Budget and the rather small child endowment that was paid under Labor with the amount the taxpayer's family now obtains. Let me give the example of the family with one child. The tax rebate for that child would now have been $5.16 a week. With the 50c child endowment, that family would have been receiving $5.66 a week. In fact it now receives $3.50 a week. So the family has lot $2. 16 a week. In the case of two children the loss is $3.32 a week; for three children, $4.48 a week; for four children, $5.89 a week; for five children, $6.55 a week; and for six children, $7.46 a week. The table surely shows that this Government has completely failed the families. It has completely failed to help those in greatest need. 
In this House we hear a lot of rhetoric about all kinds of groups in the community, such as pensioners and so on. I am not necessarily saying that those groups are not in difficult circumstances, but I feel that members of families with children and a single income who are trying to establish themselves are the worst off group in Australia at present. I just hope that these people will look at the figures and will understand that the Government has failed to index family allowances. The Government, during the last few weeks before the Budget came down, floated alleged proposals- I am afraid that some of our people picked these up- that family allowances for the first child were to be abolished or were to be taxed as part of the mother's income, and so on. The people were relieved to find that the family allowances continued at the previous level. That is not the issue. I supported the concept of the family allowances replacing the tax rebate back in 1976. It helped those families who were not in a position even to pay tax. But through changing a tax rebate which was indexed to a family allowance which was not, greater and greater amounts of money are being lost by people with families. I hope that many people in this House will have a look at this table and see the net effect of the Government's action. 
Let me conclude by dealing very briefly with a matter with which I dealt to some extent on Budget night last week. I refer to the changes to the medical scheme. When responding to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on that night I admitted that I was surprised at what the Government had done. I was surprised that it was prepared to take $620m out of revenue and contribute it to Medibank. Since then, of course, it has become quite clear that the Government had not thought the proposition through to any great extent. Whilst I still accept that a significant number of people in Australia obviously will be better off financially under the new system- we can call it whatever we like; it is no longer Medibank- a significant number of people will not be benefiting and obviously will be worse off. I refer basically to the low income earners who were levy payers in theory but in fact did not have to pay much of a levy. Therefore they will not save any significant amount by the abolition of the levy but they will lose the benefits of having been levy payers. As levy payers they were entitled to 85 per cent of their medical costs plus their hospital costs. The hospital costs will still be paid for them but the medical costs will be paid to the extent of only 40 per cent. 
For those of us with relatively high incomes who were levy payers, the arrangement is a financial improvement. If we decide to take out medical insurance- I think anybody who is relatively well off and takes out medical insurance is being quite silly- it will cost us less than we paid under the old levy. But the people who are at the lower end of the income scale, who were paying only a levy proportionate to their income, will be significantly worse off. One of the interesting side effects of this will be a conflict of interest between the States and the Federal Government as to whether people should join private funds and whether they should go into hospital as public patients. 
Let us look at the difference in costs from the Federal and State points of view after 1 November if a patient goes into a doctor of choice ward in a public hospital. The State Government will gain $20 a day per patient because he has to contribute $40 a day. Half of that will be part of the deficit incurred by the State Government. Therefore the Government loses $20 a day if from now on that person goes in as a standard ward patient. Let us look at it from the Federal Government's point of view. The Federal Government also saves $20 a day but on the other hand it has to pay medical fees for that particular patient. Let us assume that a patient is in hospital as a surgical patient receiving surgical treatment. When he was in as a standard ward patient there was no surgical fee involved and no anaesthetist's fee involved. When he goes in as a doctor of choice patient a medical fee will bc involved. The Federal Government has undertaken to pay all except $20 per service for that patient. 
Let us take, for example, a patient who has an operation such as a hysterectomy, in which an assistant and an anaesthetist are involved. I have calculated the cost of that operation to be about $360. Sixty dollars of that would have to be paid by the patient. The Government then pays $300. In other words, since the Federal Government benefits by only $20 a day by having a patient go in as a doctor of choice patient and contribute $40 a day, that patient has to be in hospital for 15 days before the Government recoups the $300 lost on the surgical operation. Therefore it will generally not be in the interests of the Federal Government, from the point of view of the Treasury or the Department of Finance, for the patient to go in as a doctor of choice patient but it will be in the interests of the State Government for that to happen, because if he goes in as a doctor of choice patient the State Government will save $20 a day or $140 a week. It will be extremely interesting to see how long the present system can continue. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
How many (a) student nurses, (b) part-time nurses and (c) full-time registered nurses made up the total nursing work force for the Australian Capital Territory in each of the last 3 years. 
How many student nurses commenced training in the Australian Capital Territory during each of the years 1970 to 1977, inclusive. 
How many nurses graduated in each of those years. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1 978 but it does oppose the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill 1978.I shall deal briefly with the amendments to the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. The Act was introduced in 1974 and was to run for three years. It was proposed by the then Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  that $14m would be spent in the first three years. In fact, nothing like that amount of money has been spent as yet. The Act was extended on 10 November 1977 to cover the following four years, and now it is being extended to run for five years. Generally speaking, we would support that sort of extension if it meant that more assistance would be given to homeless persons. However, all that is happening is that the same amount of money- in fact, it is a smaller amount of money- is being eked out over five years instead of three years. Whilst I do not want to go into great detail on that piece of legislation, I recommend that honourable members look at the report which was tabled in this House last week, I think, and in the Senate in June. It is headed: 'A Place of Dignity'. It deals with the problems facing homeless persons. 
The States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill is a much more vicious piece of legislation. Under the Act States and local government receive support for three different kinds of services: Firstly, for approved home care services. Support for those services was on a two for one basis but it is now to be provided on a one for one basis. The second category of support, which again was on a two for one basis, is given to local government to pay the salaries of welfare officers at senior citizens centres. That support is being reduced from a two for one basis to a one for one basis. The Bill does not intend any amendment in relation to the construction of senior citizens centres, presumably because approvals have been given in advance. 
Everybody- from the Council of the Aging, to Professor Henderson, to pensioners federations- has criticised these proposed amendments. They have come under attack from all kinds of groups, especially those in Victoria but also in New South Wales and in other States, which realise how many people will be affected. The Government's decision to cut subsidies for these services to elderly people lacks sense and compassion. These services prevent elderly people from being admitted to or having to remain in institutional care at considerably greater community cost. It is therefore ridiculous for the Government to put pressure on the States to reduce bed utilisation in hospitals if care cannot be provided for the patients sent home. That is part of the same problem which is occurring with the community health services: There is a cutting back on the provision of those services. We all agree that we have to try to keep people out of institutions if for no other reason- I think there are lots of other reasons- than to save money. Yet the Government will not put more money into these alternative services although smaller amounts would be required than would be required for hospitals. If it did so it would reduce the utilisation of more expensive services. 
Every government report, including those commissioned by the Fraser Government, has recommended increasing these services. Old people should be assisted to remain in their own homes and communities if that is what they wish. It saves the massive construction of houses and nursing homes for the aged. These programs have been cut by the Government in the expectation that we can keep people out of those homes. The welfare officers employed by local government under the grants play an important role in preventive medicine by assisting the elderly to remain socially active and in touch with community health facilities. No new grants have been given in the time of the Fraser Government. The present cuts mean that local government councils will have to find several hundred thousand dollars or sack their welfare officers. I emphasise that there was no consultation with the States, local government or voluntary organisations. So much for the new federalism and cooperation with those groups. 
-The Government tried, but it could not get them on the telephone. 
-That is the sort of thing the Government would do. It would try to get them today. That is a relevant point. The Government probably would try to consult those bodies today, having introduced the legislation last week and having told the Premiers about it at the beginning of June at the Premiers Conference. 
Let us look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this House. There is another quite depressing point which shows that the Government again is being dishonest. At page 383 of  Hansard  the Minister incorporated a table suggesting that expenditure for home care services and welfare officers has been increased significantly this year. We all know that the whole point of this legislation is to reduce the subsidy from a $2 for $ 1 basis to a dollar for dollar basis. Yet the Government claims that it expects an increase of 12.3 per cent in the expenditure this financial year. I will ignore the 12.3 per cent. I accept that as the inflation rate for the coming year. If the Government really expects that there will be the same amount of expenditure this year as there was last year, yet the basis of the subsidy has been changed, it means that State governments and local government would have to double their contributions. 
It is not wrong. I shall refer to the total amount spent as 100 units. At present the Federal Government pays 66 units and the States and local government pay 33 units. The Federal Government claims that it will continue to pay 66 units. For the Government to put in 66 units on a dollar for dollar basis, State governments and local government would also have to put in 66 units. Last year they put in 33 units. 
It is not a wider program. That is the point I am making. There will not be a wider program unless State and local governments double their contributions. I do not think for one minute that State and local governments can afford to double their contributions. 
The amendments to the States Grants (Home Care) Act are, to my mind, another example of the Government employing what I would call negative economies. The cuts in Federal subsidies to these valuable home care services epitomise the meanness and shortsightedness which characterises the Budget. Even newspapers which normally support the Government and which I quoted last night when speaking on the Budget have all agreed on the meanness of this Budget. Subsidies to welfare and home care workers have been reduced by one-third. As a result, the old will be forced out of their family homes and the taxpayer eventually will be forced to pay for every person institutionalised because of inability to cope at home. This is apart from the immeasurable human hardship caused to those forced out of their homes and into institutions. This is a measure by a Government that not only claims to support the institution of the family but also continually complains of the high cost of institutional care. 
The claim of the Government that it intends to maintain services in areas of need is clearly false. Why has this valuable preventive and supportive service been picked upon to make a petty political point? For the old as well as the Australian taxpayer who will foot the bill for expensive institutional care, it will be an expensive political point. The point obviously is to teach local government and State governments a lesson. It will teach them that once they get involved in welfare work with the Federal Government, when the Federal Government originally finances something quite significantly, perhaps to the extent of 90 per cent, its contribution will drop to 75 per cent and finally to 50 per cent. No doubt if it keeps going it will drop its contribution to 10 per cent or nil so that local people will have to contribute all. 
It is unfair for local government to have to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis. There are many areas which cannot contribute on that basis. The whole point of having a Federal government and a progressive system of taxation- inasmuch as it remains progressive- is for help to be given to those in need. This Government often pays lip service to the proposition that a government should not help everybody; it should help only those in need. Yet it is obviously much easier for some councils to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis than it is for the councils which most need these institutions. Under this Bill funds for home care and welfare workers will be cut by one-third even though in many cases local council budgets have been planned on the assumption that the Commonwealth would not renege on its obligations. 
To give an example, Caulfield Council, having the highest percentage of elderly people in Victoria, made a commitment to increase the city's home help services before the subsidy cut was announced. That is only one district in which many old people will be forced into institutions. Without knowing much about Victoria, I suppose that Fitzroy Council, which is also involved in much of this work and is probably a much poorer council, will be in the same position. These cuts are inhuman and petty. They can only lengthen the queue for expensive nursing home accommodation, and lengthening the period of stay in hospital for the old will mean higher costs for all Australians. How can the States possibly reduce costly bed utilisation now? 
The Minister for Health has already given the States instructions that for the first time long term geriatric patients will have to pay seveneighths of their pensions towards the cost of a bed in a public hospital; that is approximately $45 a week. When I complained about this two months ago he told me that this would not apply to people who were not obviously nursing home patients. I have now seen the instructions that have gone to the States. They are that a person will be considered to be a prima facie nursing home patient in a public hospital if he has been in hospital for 60 days. After 60 days in hospital a person is declared a nursing home patient unless he can get special certification that at that stage he is still suffering from some acute illness. If he gets that certification the same automatic classification will take place 30 days later. 
For the first time in Australian history pensioners relying completely on their pension, with no outside income, will have to pay for hospitalisation. As far as I know, this is the first time that pensioners have had to contribute in any State. It will be interesting to see whether the Premier of Queensland, who kicked up such a fuss about Medibank and was so proud of the fact that there is no means test on or payment by people in public hospitals in Queensland, will raise his voice. I have not heard it so far. As I said earlier, I think it is morally indefensible as far as individuals are concerned. I think it is just as indefensible from the point of view of the long term cost to the community. If people are prevented from being treated cheaply or relatively cheaply at home, they are obviously forced into institutions. 
In commenting on this decision by the Federal Government, Professor Henderson, who is well known to members of this House, said that the Government had been leading local councils up the garden path by offering subsidies for welfare services and then not continuing their level of funding once these services were operating to the obvious benefit of their recipients. Local governments are tired of the Government's catch cry claiming to support direct local government funding. They are tired of being left holding the baby without the funds to feed it. Valuable services for the most vulnerable of our community will inevitably suffer. It is all very well to maintain that State and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally based programs, but where are the extra funds to come from? Perhaps it will only be the old forced out of their homes who will understand the exact meaning of this much vaunted new federalism we have been hearing so much about. 
In repeating the fact that the Opposition is opposing this Bill, the first of the two cognate measures, I reiterate that the Government is not only attacking the weakest members of our community but is also, from a purely financial point of view, going about it the wrong way. The longterm costs will be greater. I challenge the Government to produce any committee reports that would suggest otherwise. If any expert or interdepartmental committee has suggested that by cutting back on those services one can save money in the long run I would be very interested indeed to read its report. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 August 1978:  ( 1.) Did his Department's submission to the South Australian Royal Commission into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs contain the following: 
2.1. It is contended that there are dangers and difficulties in investigating the use of the range of drugs outlined, without examining the use of nicotine and alcohol, 
2.2. It is impossible to develop rational policies for drugs' whilst excluding alcohol and tobacco from enquiry and 
2.7. Over recent years progress has been made, against considerable resistance from the community in general and from those with a commercial interest in particular, towards general acknowledgment of the unitary nature of drug use and misuse in society. A partial approach by the Commission would set this back considerably. . 
Will he ask his colleague the Attorney-General to extend the terms of reference of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs to include nicotine and alcohol. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Which public Australian power plants use oil as a fuel? 
What is the estimated annual total oil consumption of Australian power plants? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
1 ) Which antibiotics are used as animal feed additives in Australia. 
What are the total amounts used in this form. 
3 ) Is it a fact that the use of antibiotics in animal feed may lead to an increase in the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant pathogens. 
Has his Depanment been informed of the restrictions proposed by the United States Federal Drug Administration; if so, what are they. 
Did the British SWANN Committee recommend in 1969 that antibiotics used in treating human disease be proscribed from use in animal feeds; if so, was this adopted in 1971. 
What other countries proscribe the use of antibiotics as animal feed. 
Does his Depanment support or oppose the use of antibiotics as animal feed. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that those covered by pre-paid health plans or health maintenance organisations in the United States of America have an annual usage of hospital days about one-half the rate of those covered by fee for service schemes? If so, for how long has he been aware of this? When will his Department take steps to establish such schemes as alternatives to the present fee for service insurance schemes which, so obviously, adversely affect the pockets and health of those covered? 
-Last evening, before the debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs was adjourned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  replied basically to matters raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  The Minister seemed rather touchy and uncharitable in his remarks on the matter of aid, including the amount of aid to be provided, the method of distributing it and the countries to which it should be distributed. Surely they are issues which are relevant to the attitudes that we in this chamber should adopt in relation to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Tonight, I would like to deal with a few other matters connected with foreign affairs. Having only recently been a member of the Australian delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union conference in Bonn, I feel rather depressed about the state of the world, as I did when I came back from attending meetings at the United Nations five years ago. It is only when one meets with people who basically ought to share one 's concerns and one's attitudes especially representatives at the Inter-Parliamentary Union, where the pretence at least is that these people are parliamentarians and people who have a basically democratic attitude or when one participates in the debate and listens to the debate at such conferences that one realises that we share very little with a large number of participants at such world meetings. 
I think that the simplistic way of looking at the world today is that the world is divided into two camps the right and the left. In olden days I think the Soviet Union used to have a slogan to the effect that the world was divided into two camps: On the one hand there were imperialist powers and, on the other hand, there were peace-loving countries led by the Soviet Union. This was obvious propaganda. Many people still believe whichever side they identify with that the world is divided into these two camps. Broadly speaking, they are the so-called right and the socalled left. My own view is that there is no basic difference between countries such as Chile and Cuba. The parties running those countries adopt fictitious and high sounding names such as democrats and socialists. Of course, they are neither. But it does not matter whether they claim to be members of one side or the other. There is no difference basically between Qaddafi's Libya and Franco's Spain apart from the religion. Both are or were religious military dictatorships. People may prefer one or the other religion or may disapprove of both of them. Hopefully all of us in this Parliament object to religious military dictatorships. 
Two or three years ago many more members in this House would have disagreed with me, but now they can see the brutal wars that are going on at present between selfproclaimed socialist led countries such as Ethiopia and Somalia or Kampuchea and Vietnam. This shocks many people on our side of politics. The conservative side of politics is similarly shocked by the United States of America and the People's Republic of China supporting Zaire, Somalia and Eritrea. We have to remember that few countries outside of Western Europe are democratic countries in our sense of the word. Only one country in South America Venezuela has a democratic form of government. Similarly in Africa, from the evidence that is available to us, only Gambia and possibly Botswana have what we would call a democratic form of government. Most of the other countries are either one party or military dictatorships. It does not matter what they call themselves. It is extremely unpleasant that this is happening; nonetheless it is happening. 
One of the most unpleasant things that has happened in our area of the world since the end of the Vietnam war is the struggle which, to some extent, has actually ended in warfare between Vietnam and Kampuchea which was formerly known as Cambodia. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  when he was speaking in this debate last night referred to this matter. It is hard to believe that two countries which up until about three years ago were being bombed and devastated by outsiders by complete outsiders as far as Indo-China was concerned are now bombing and devastating one another. 
Until fairly recently many of us tended to worry about the so-called domino effect of what was happening in Indo-China and feared that authoritarian and communist regimes would take over in Vietnam and spread down to Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. That obviously will not happen in that sense. There is no more obvious way to prevent people in those other countries who may have been sympathetic to communism from embracing communism or from devoting themselves to overthrowing the governments in those countries than for them to see what is happening at present in Vietnam and in Indo-China in general. There is no more obvious condemnation of the regimes in power there than the refugees who are arriving in this country and the many more who are arriving in Thailand, Malaysia, et cetera. I have here an article by William Shawcross which was published in the  New York Review of Books  of 6 April 1978 and is called 'The Third Indochina War'. William Shawcross is a British correspondent who was very sympathetic to Vietnam during the Vietnamese war against the United States and her allies. In the article he discusses what is happening now in Indo-China. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the first part of the article. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE THIRD INDOCHINA WAR 
William Shawcross 
Two years ago I suggested that it was possible to see Cambodia only through the prism of propaganda.1 Since then the volume of the propaganda has swelled. But so has the body of evidence on which it is based. Consider the following letter published in the Vietnamese paper Nhan Dan and broadcast on Hanoi radio. It describes a midnight Khmer Rouge attack on a Vietnamese village last October, soon after the war between the two former allies began. 
All of the houses were surrounded by Cambodian soldiers who immediately opened fire and used machetes, axes, sabers and sharpened sticks to slay the villagers ... A fleeing child was caught by a soldier who cut off his leg and threw him into the flames. All seven members of  Mrs Truong  Thi Rot's family were beheaded. Rot was disemboweled and had a seven-month fetus placed on her chest. 
All the eight members of Nguyen Van Tarn's family were beheaded and the heads were put on a table for amusement. All eight persons in Nguyen Thi Nganh's house were disemboweled, the intestines [piled] in one shocking heap.  Mr Quang's  wife was also disemboweled. The killers took out her five-month fetus, then cut off her breast and chopped her body in three parts.  Her  two-year old boy . . . was torn in two and dumped into a well.2 
And so on. Such an account is fairly characteristic of the way in which totalitarian governments speak of their enemies in wartime and it might easily be dismissed as mere hyperbole. If it seems more credible than other propaganda this is because it matches refugee accounts of Khmer Rouge behaviour in Cambodia itself and the way in which the Khmer Rouge soldiers are known to have performed in the border villages where they have been fighting the Thais. With a few exceptions the stories which have emerged from Cambodia in the past two years have confirmed the impression, given by the early refugees, of a vast and somber work camp where toil is unending, rewards are nonexistent, families are separated, and murder is a constantly used tool of social discipline. Well before Hanoi published similar assessments. Democratic Kampuchea seemed to many in the West a uniquely atrocious experiment in human engineering conducted, in Hanoi 's words, by 'infantile communists ' who pursued 'a consistent policy of national hatred' and were deliberately turning young Kampucheans into medieval butchers' to indulge in 'savage repressions' and 'bloody massacres'. 
The New York Review of Books, March 4, 1976. 3Hanoi radio in English, January 12, 1978. All quotations in this article from radio broadcasts and from the Vietnam News Agency are from the BBC's 'Summary of World Broadcasts.' 
Very little time remains to me to speak tonight. It may appear that I am attacking only countries which describe themselves as leftist countries, but I cannot use my last minute without referring to my recent visit to East Berlin, when I travelled across from Bonn. I spent only two days in East Berlin and I would not consider myself an expert on East Germany. But anybody who could have any sympathy with what is going on in East Germany must surely be shocked by what happens when a person crosses by train from East Germany into West Berlin. The trains are searched. Alsatian dogs have their muzzles removed and are put under the trains to make sure that no citizens of East Germany leave East Germany for West Berlin. Surely this is complete proof of what is going on. It does not matter what other arguments there are about the benefits of one kind of regime or another. If people have to use alsatian dogs to prevent people from leaving a particular country, that country must be far from perfect. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Firstly I congratulate the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  for his attack on the Fraser and Hamer Governments because of their lack of help for farmers when compared with the policies of the New Zealand and New South Wales Governments. I do not know that much about farming but I do know that the New South Wales Government has been able to give a completely new deal to the dairy farmers of New South Wales by enabling many of them who are a long way from Sydney to have access to the Sydney market for the first time. No wonder the Country Party in New South Wales is panicking because of the influence of the dairy farmers' votes. 
My grievance today deals with two aspects both of which are connected with the health scheme and with the changes which have been announced and which will come into effect on 1 November this year. In passing, I refer to a poster which has been distributed by the Federal Secretary of the Australian Medical Association to all doctors. The Federal Secretary asked that the poster be pinned up in waiting rooms or any other places where it will be seen. The poster asks would be patients to join private health insurance. I make two points on this matter. The poster emphasises that such insurance fills in the gap between the Commonwealth payment and the cost of the service- gap insurance. I also refer to the hypocrisy of the AMA. When we introduced Medibank, the AMA was continually saying that we could not have an efficient or effective health insurance scheme if persons in the community did not have to contribute anything towards the cost of the services they received. Now the AMA is asking people to join private funds for the purposes of gap insurance. The second and much more serious point is that the AMA is asking people who wish to be covered for hospital benefits to take out choice of doctor cover at hospitals. In an appeal to the patient the poster carries the following sentence: 
You are more likely to be admitted when you want treatment and less likely to have a long wait. 
That statement is wrong. If it were the case the claim ought to be investigated by the appropriate 
State or Federal government department. In public hospitals beds are declared standard beds or doctor of choice beds depending on the insurance cover of the patient. Information on insurance is obtained from the patient after he is admitted to hospital. Whether the patient has special cover is not relevant to the admission of the patient. I am not referring to private beds. There are very few in public hospitals. I am referring to doctor of choice beds in standard wards. Standard beds and doctor of choice beds can be adjacent to each other. If a patient is admitted who has the requisite cover the bed will be declared a doctor of choice bed and the doctor will be entitled to charge the patient on a fee for service basis. No possibility should arise of a patient's gaining quicker admittance into a bed just because he has a particular kind of insurance cover. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and State Ministers will make it quite clear that that will not occur and that they will take steps, if there are hospitals where this is happening, to insist that the procedure no longer applies. I am not aware of any hospitals where this happens. If I were, I would certainly name them. 
The second point I raise- obviously it is connected with the changes- is the closure of Medibank Public. Medibank Public is being abolished. I would like to make four points. Firstly the closure of Medibank will have on adverse effect on people who want to obtain refunds for medical services for which they have paid or for which they wish to obtain cheques to pay their doctors. These people will not be able to go to the branches that now exist in many towns and cities of Australia. The last report of Medibank which I looked at this morning refers to 93 branches. I am quite sure that there are more now. The closure obviously will affect the people who want to collect money and also the businesses in those suburbs. I am sure that many members of this House have made representations to the Minister on behalf of persons in suburbs to obtain Medibank pay offices in particular areas. Obviously the business people like their customers to receive refunds for Medibank payments so that they can spend them in their local area. 
My second point on this aspect relates to the sacking of the staff. I will come to that in a minute. My third point relates to access by private funds to non-insured patients. In other words, from 1 November it will be necessary for persons who do not wish to take out any private insurance to register with a private fund to obtain their 40 per cent refund. I know that they can register with Medibank Private, but Medibank 
Private is only one of about 100-odd funds. A sufficient number of people will not be aware of that fact. The private funds will have access to these people's records and will have their names and addresses and will bombard them with literature encouraging them to take out unnecessary- I repeat 'unnecessary'- health insurance. The funds make their money on unnecessary insurance. 
It surely will be unnecessary for most people after 1 November to take out medical insurance. The most that they can be up for is $20 for any medical service. Very few people in the community will want to take out insurance, for which they will probably have to pay $3 a week, to cover them for a maximum of $20. A large proportion of people take out private hospital cover as distinct from doctor of choice cover. I can understand people taking out doctor of choice cover for public hospitals because they may want a particular doctor to look after them. Some 30 per cent of the population in the past has taken out private cover, yet the number of private beds as a proportion of the total beds in the hospital system- I use New South Wales as an example- is about 5 per cent. Therefore 25 people out of 30 who insure for private cover even when they are admitted into hospital do not get private cover. Therefore the insurance premiums are clear profit for the hospital funds. They never have to pay out. Only one sixth of the people who contribute can receive the benefit at any time. 
I emphasise that Medibank Public is not being closed in my view because the alternative systems are more effective. It is being closed as punishment for its honesty regarding the abolition of bulk billing. I am not criticising the Minister specifically. I think he tried to be reasonably honest, but was stood over, as I have pointed out on a number of occasions, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who introduced the changes. The Minister was made to say that bulk billing cost extra money, was expensive and led to unnecessary claims. I will quote once more from a letter written on 7 March by  Dr Gwynn  Howells, the head of the Department of Health, in which he referred to the fact that the Health Insurance Commission, Medibank, strongly favoured the retention of bulk billing. I quote only one paragraph. It reads: 
The Commission's view - that is Medibank 's view- is based on the extra administrative cost of restricting bulk billing to pensioners and dependants- estimated by the Commission at $7m per annum- supported by a statistical examination of Medibank claims (described in the report) which showed less services per person where the patient was bulk billed than where the patient claimed on Medibank and received benefit by cash or cheque. The respective ratios are- direct billing 3.12 services in six months per person at risk; other means of payment 3.29 services . . . 
That is a rate of 5.2 per cent less for direct billing- bulk billing- than for others. That information was given to the Minister. I am sure that he did not recommend the abolition of bulk billing. However, the Prime Minister recommended the abolition of bulk billing because he was under pressure from the AMA which, after all, had contributed large amounts of money towards his election campaign. It was therefore unpleasant to have Medibank in existence because it could give alternative advice- correct advice- to the Government. The Government therefore has decided to abolish Medibank. Some 2,000 odd people in Medibank risk losing their jobs. I think it is a very retrograde step on the part of the Government. The Government has given some indication over the last three weeks that it will reverse decisions which obviously were irrational in the first instance. I hope that it will add this decision to those decisions and will reverse its decision to close Medibank. 
-We have just had about11/2 hours of concentrated legislation dealing with my particular interests of social security, health and veterans' affairs. It is difficult now to concentrate on the departmental expenditure in these areas. One of the difficulties that arises of course is that much of the expenditure of these departments is related to legislation which has been introduced this afternoon. I do not want to start discussing that legislation because it will be up for discussion, I assume, during the week Parliament resumes in about 12 days time. I would like to refer to some of the continuing problems associated with health expenditure and expenditure on social security items. 
I would like to deal firstly with social security payments. One of the significant ones of course is the payment of unemployment benefits to those who are unable to find employment. The most depressing aspect of the unemployment problem to me, having just returned from the United States of America where I spent about a week, is the obvious difficulty and the depressing attitude of almost everybody in Australia as to the future of employment conditions. It is not surprising that we are depressed because when we look at the figures we find that in Australia four years ago at 30 June 1974 civilian employment stood at 4.8 million. At 30 June of this year it stood at 4.714 million, and in fact it has dropped further since then. There has been a decrease of well over 100,000 in the number of jobs in Australia in the last four years. A large number of peopleyoung people, migrants- have come into the labour market. There is no obvious sign of an increase of employment or jobs. 
We often compare Australia to the United States. At present Australia and the United States have a similar rate of unemploymentabout 6 per cent. But at the same dates in the United States, civilian employment at 30 June 1974 stood at 82.261 million and at 30 June of this year stood at 95.852 million. There was an increase of nearly 13.6 million jobs in the United States in those four years, compared with a decrease of over 100,000 jobs in the same period in Australia. The number of migrants, as a proportion of the population, entering the United States is of course much smaller at present than it has been in Australia over the last four years. I am not criticising the admission of migrants. I am not one of those who believes that immigration is the cause of unemployment in Australia. All I am saying to the Government is that it is high time that it got down to looking at the problem from a slightly more long term view rather than arguing as to what a particular government department said last year just before the election. It is time the Government came up with some sort of policy to increase jobs in Australia as jobs have been increased in the United States. 
The next point I would like to deal with is the question of the family allowance which we have been talking about during the last few weeks. There was criticism of the attempt to means test the family allowance. This is an important matter. I can understand the Government's original proposition which aimed to exclude from receipt of the family allowance those families in respect of whom a trust had been set up to reduce taxation and therefore benefit the children. The Government has been unable to find some appropriate formula to overcome this situation. I hope that at some stage it will be able to do so. My criticism of the family allowance scheme at present in existence in Australia is that the allowance has not been indexed as the taxation deductions it replaced about three years ago were indexed. Therefore every family containing taxpayers is losing by the transfer to the family allowance scheme. I have prepared a table and seek leave for it to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197809284_54_5.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows clearly that, because of the Government's failure to index family allowances, a family with one child, provided there is a taxpayer in the family, loses $2.16 a week; a family with two children loses $3.32 a week; a family with three children loses $4.48 a week and so on. This is a significant loss and I hope that the Government will be forced by public opinion and by the Opposition to index family allowances. 
It is ridiculous to have to deal with the question of health costs in the three or four minutes remaining to me, but I would emphasise something that the Minister said only a few minutes ago: That 60 per cent of our health costs originate in institutions. Therefore, it is terribly important to decrease the level of institutional care of Australians. 
Let us, in contrast, consider the figures for the United States of America. In that country the number of hospital days per 1,000 persons is approximately 1,000 per annum, or about one day per person. I have not the figures for Australia as a whole, but the figure for Western Australia, which I imagine is no different from any other State in this respect, is 1,543 for every 1,000 persons. Thus, there is in Western Australia a 50 per cent higher hospital utilisation rate than there is, on the average, in the United States. In that country, where pre-paid health plans are available and it is in the financial interest of the doctor to keep persons out of hospital, the number of hospital days per annum per thousand persons covered falls to about 375. I invite honourable members to compare that with the figure of 1,000 where a fee for service is involved and 1 ,500 in Western Australia, which has a mixture of fee for service and salaried services. 
I am glad that the Minister agrees with me. He knows that both his Government and ours have considered the matter of prepaid health plans. We were not given a chance to do anything about it, but this Government has now had three years in which to act. I hope that it will take active steps to encourage the introduction of pre-paid health plans. I have just returned from the United States, whose Government has passed special legislation in this area. Before such a scheme is introduced, a sum of $75,000 is paid to the group concerned to enable a feasibility study to be conducted. If the result is positive the Government is prepared to expend up to $200,000 upon a further feasibility study, which will go into great detail, and then to expend up to $ 1 m to take the group to the point where it opens its doors. In the long term the government, and the people as a whole, save a large amount of money. 
There are, of course, differences between our system and that in the United States. In that country, in many cases the employer pays the health costs. It is difficult to encourage people to become interested in the cost of health because it is part of the fringe benefits they are granted by their employer. That does not happen in Australia. On the other hand, in the United 
States it is easier to enrol people in pre-paid health plans because most participants in health funds belong to a group at their place of employment, rather than contributing individually. Therefore, if the fund can impress upon an employer the advantage of insuring, a large number of people can be brought into it. The Ford motor company of that country has just decided to take up pre-paid health plans. It realised that it was paying more for health insurance than it was paying to US Steel; that in the cost of each motor car there was a $500 content which represented the medical and hospital insurance premiums of the worker. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) How many permanent migrants have arrived in Australia since 1 946. 
2 ) How many medical practitioners with foreign degrees have migrated to, and been registered in, Australia over the same period. 
What is the ratio of medical practitioners to population in Australia. 
-I would like to support the motion. Before the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  moves that I be not further heard- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Prospect be not further heard. 
-Do you want a division or an explanation on this? It would take only a minute to get a reply rather than- 
-I ask the Leader of the House to withdraw his motion. 
-I want to put it on record that we have asked that a legislation committee be set up. 
Will we have to go through the whole thing again? 
-Can the Minister for Health remember saying that the Government's new health insurance proposals will lead to excess staff at the Health Insurance Commission and promising that government departments and private health funds would be asked to employ the surplus staff? Is he aware that the funds in New South Wales have allegedly placed a black ban on all Health Insurance Commission employees who have previously worked for private funds? Will he try to prevent such discrimination against persons who have generally given good service to a government authority? 
It is appropriate that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  spoke about hypocrisy because he certainly speaks with much expertise on the topic. I understand that I am to be followed in this debate by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who certainly would not be far behind the honourable member for St George. The honourable member for Denison is prepared to vote against the Government on the question of the Curran scheme to protect tax avoiders on the basis that it is contrary to Liberal Party policy, but we will see tonight whether he will vote against the Government's decision to reduce the means test for pensioners and on the reduction of social security and repatriation pensions. If ever there was hypocrisy surely the honourable members for St George and Denison have illustrated it many, many times in this House. The honourable member for St George has just argued that the pensioners and the exservicemen should carry the fight against inflation. He talks about inflation and says that that is the reason for all these cuts; therefore the pensions have to be cut. 
Let us look at another untruth that Liberal Party members and Country Party members keep on repeating. They talk about reduction in taxation by this Government. Let us look at page 217 of  Hansard  of 15 August of this year. In 1975-76 the net payment of income tax by individuals was $7,0 19m. This year it is estimated to be $10,341m, an increase of $3,322m, or nearly a 50 per cent increase in two years in which this Government has been in power. It talks a lot about reducing taxation but has not done anything about it. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for Bendigo I shall repeat the figures. The net payments of income tax by individuals in the 1975-76 Budget was $7,0 19m. This year the estimate is $ 10,341m, an increase of $3, 322m; that is from a Government which believes in reducing taxation. How much would we have got from other governments that would have been honest about it? 
People cannot live on what they would have paid. Having read this Government's policy speech last year when it was announced in the House that the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs would introduce a Repatriation Act Amendment Bill, I assumed it would provide certain benefits. The only repatriation benefit that was promised in the last policy speech was that allied ex-servicemen would receive equal treatment with United Kingdom ex-servicemen, but it has not happened. What has happened instead is another series of broken promises so far as this Government is concerned. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  probably does not remember because he remembers only things that are convenient for him. What is happening in this particular piece of legislation is the abolition of six-monthly automatic adjustments of repatriation pensions in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. 
How will the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  vote on that issue? How will the honourable member for Denison and the honourable member for St George vote on that particular issue? They talk big but we will see how they vote on this particular piece of legislation. The Government has reintroduced a means test, an income test for pensions, for example, for those over the age of 70 on the service pension. This particular piece of legislation removes the sustenance allowance and abolishes acceptance of pulmonary tuberculosis as being war caused. There were five more lies, five more broken promises in that particular section of the policy speech where the ex-servicemen were promised that their conditions would remain at least the same and would in fact be improved. As I said earlier, the Prime Minister's memory is always conveniently faulty. He has forgotten his promises just as he has forgotten when the former Minister for Administrative Services gave him certain information about the rort that the Government went for last year in Queensland. 
It relates to the Budget because the Prime Minister makes certain promises, makes certain statements. The Prime Minister expects certain credibility but he is lying. He is lying continuously. 
The Prime Minister is telling deliberate untruths. I withdraw the word 'lies' and the House can judge for itself as to what the Prime Minister said and what the net results of the Prime Minister's statements were. 
-I withdraw that it was a he and ask the House to judge how the performance of this Government has measured up to its promises, to the particular and specific promises that it made and broke. Let us look at the social security position as far as this particular amending piece of legislation is concerned. What is the Government doing in this particular piece of legislation? It is removing indexation of pensioners and benefits from a six-monthly to a yearly basis. Let us see what was said by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  who was then in charge of the legislation, when he introduced it back in 1 976. He said: 
The Government has given a commitment to protect social security pensions from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting pension levels each six months according to the movements in the Consumer Price Index. 
The honourable member for St George said: 
We are keeping meticulously to the promise to adjust the benefit every six months. 
The Government said in its policy speech that it would not interfere with the abolition of the means test for those over 70. What has it done? It has reintroduced the means test for those over 70, not only ex-servicemen but also other people over 70. It has broken that particular promise and it will be interesting to see the administrative cost of checking on the means test for those over the age of 70 and finding out just how much the net saving is to the Government. The Government talks a lot about the family. Just before election time it came out and found royal commission reports, et cetera, which allegedly were supported by the Labor Party and which may have had some adverse effect on the family. But this particular Government has abolished the maternity allowance just when it changes medical insurance schemes and reintroduces medical costs as far as confinements are concerned. For the first time for approximately four or five years there is an actual medical cost involved for confinements. This is the exact time when this Government decides to abolish the maternity allowance which is supposed to cover that particular cost. As far as the family is concerned, by not indexing family allowances, which replaced indexed taxation deductions, the Government is reducing the value of those family allowances. Certainly it is reducing them by comparison with the savings that would have applied to all taxpayers. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I showed earlier to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt). 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810113_77_4.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows quite clearly that every taxpaying family in this country will lose a significant amount of money because of the Government's failure to index family allowances. If we had continued with the Labor Party scheme, the so-called Hayden scheme, under which a tax rebate of $200- not a deduction from taxable income but an actual rebate- was introduced in the 1975-76 Budget, to be indexed in line with other tax rebates, that rebate would now be $269 per child. That is $5.16 per week per child for a taxpaying family. Those figures are obtained by indexing the amount by 13 per cent for 1976-77, by 10.9 per cent for 1977-78, and by only 7.6 per cent for 1978-79. Those are the exact figures that this Government has used in relation to allowances. 
What would have been the net result of that? Under our scheme, a family with one child would have received a tax rebate of $5. 1 6 a week plus child endowment of 50c, making a total payment of $5.66 a week. All that that family receives now is $3.50 a week. There is a loss to the family of $2.16 a week. A family with two children would have been entitled to a tax rebate of $10.32 a week, with child endowment of $1 for the second child and 50c for the first child, making a total of $11.82 a week. That family now receives $3.50 for the first child and $5 for the second child, making a total of $8.50 a week. There is a loss to the family of $3.32 a week. Similarly, for a family with three children there is a loss of $4.48, for a family with four children a loss of $5.89, for a family with five children a loss of $6.55, and for a family with six children a loss of $7.46 a week. That represents a net loss to every taxpaying family in this country and is in addition to the extra taxation which is being levied. As I indicated earlier, there has been an increase of nearly 50 per cent in individual payasyouearn taxation since this Government came to power. What is the Government doing about family allowances in this Budget? It is not indexing family allowances; it is abolishing family allowances for those children in receipt of allowances under prescribed educational schemes. Let me quote from the Bill before the House. On page 8 of the Social Services Amendment Bill the following prescribed educational schemes are set out: 
the scheme known as the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme; 
the scheme known as the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme; 
the scheme known as the Pre-School Teacher Education Assistance Scheme; 
the scheme known as the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme; 
the scheme known as the Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarship Scheme; 
the scheme known as the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme; 
The parents of those students will lose the family allowance from now on. The Government is taking away the family allowance from the parents of students who are entitled to an allowance under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, and we all know that a severe means test is applied under that Scheme. In other words, the Government is taking away the family allowance from those parents whose children qualify to receive a benefit under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and other schemes, yet it is not removing the family allowance from those people who earn much more. If a parent earns a very large amount of money, earns too much for his student child to receive the TEAS allowance, and is able to send his child to university or to some other tertiary institution, there is no attempt to remove the family allowance. However, the family allowance payable to those parents who qualify under the means test will actually be removed. 
An attack is being made on migrants' children living abroad and it is very difficult to judge the significance of this. The Opposition has asked for this legislation and the repatriation legislation to be referred to one of the legislation committees which have been set up by this House. That request has been refused. I am sorry it has been refused. I usually try to argue rationally on these Bills. We try to get information from the Minister in charge of a Bill or from the Government's advisers, but on this occasion we will not be able to get that information. Let us look at the contents of this particular legislation for which honourable members opposite will be voting. I am quite sure that honourable members opposite will not know the significance of their votes. They will not know what they are voting for. I draw attention to clause 1 6 of the Social Services Amendment Bill which will change the wording of section 83AAD of the Act. Two words in that section are to be changed and I will read both the section and the amending clause to the House. I challenge the honourable member for Denison, who has legal qualifications. 
-I know they are only from Tasmania. Nonetheless, honourable members opposite will be supporting this legislation. I am not saying necessarily that I would not support it, but I would like an explanation of the reason for the changes. The present wording of the Act states: 
A benefit shall not be granted to a person who is a supporting parent unless- 
I emphasise the world 'unless' because that is being changed- 
The Director General considers that it is reasonable that the supporting parent should have taken action to obtain maintenance from the person or persons who is or are the father or fathers or the mother or mothers as the case may be of the child or children in relation to whom the first mentioned person is the supporting parent and that that person has taken such action to obtain such maintenance as the Director General considers reasonable. 
That is the wording of the present legislation, and by substituting the word 'if for the word unless' it is being amended to read: 
A benefit shall not be granted to a person who is a supporting parent if the Director General considers that it is reasonable that the supporting parent should have taken action to obtain maintenance from the person or persons who is or are the fathers or fathers or the mother or mothers as the case may be of the child or children in relation to whom the first mentioned parent is the supporting parent and that person has not taken such action to obtain such maintenance as the Director General considers reasonable. 
We have asked a number of lawyers to look at this and a number of Opposition members have looked at it. We cannot see the difference. We cannot see the significance of it. There may be a terribly obvious explanation, I am not denying that for a moment, but I would like to have some intelligent discussion in one of the legislation committees that we have set up, hopefully for just this purpose, in order to get that explanation and to come to a reasonable opinion without having to divide the House. It is completely pointless that we are forced to divide the House when members on both sides of the House, in some cases, do not know what they are voting for or against. We waste about 10 minutes on every division when we could have a short discussion with somebody who knows what the legislation is all about. That might resolve the problem altogether because we might agree with it. 
Similarly, there is other legislation dealing with the non-payment of benefits for certain children overseas. I do not know what children are involved in that case but I fear that it is an attack on certain members of the migrant community. There is no doubt that in the Department of Social Security a strong anti-migrant bias exists. One has to look only at the attitude in Sydney as far as Australians of Greek origin are concerned in relation to social security payments. It is quite ridiculous, I would argue, that some hundreds of cases have allegedly been brought against beneficiaries who are of Greek origin and almost none against people of any other origin. Let us assume for a moment that these cases are based on fact. There must have been a concentration on a particular grouping in the community to obtain evidence against them. Surely an acrosstheboard investigation would not reveal that 1,000 plus people of Greek origin and none of any other origin were in receipt of social security benefits to which they were not entitled. I just do not believe that it would. I repeat: There is an obvious anti-migrant bias amongst the members of the Department of Social Security and, I think, amongst the members of the Commonwealth Police Force who were involved in this matter. I make that statement, but I would be very happy to withdraw it if it could be shown that I am wrong. 
That bias in the Department of Social Security is all the more reason for our getting some explanation as to why the changes have been introduced. Similarly, we do not know exactly what the changes to the Repatriation Act will mean. We do not know how many people will be involved and just what kinds of tests will be imposed for people who are presently receiving benefits for pulmonary tuberculosis. Just how strict will the tests be to relate pulmonary tuberculosis to service? We all know that certain people are much more susceptible to pulmonary tuberculosis than others. All kinds of factors are involved in a frank case of pulmonary tuberculosis. All of us have been exposed to tubercle bacillus at some stage, but very few of us become sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis. How will the Department of Veterans' Affairs decide what was due to war service? 
Before the debate on this Bill commenced I gave notice that I would move that the two Bills that are the subject of a cognate debate be referred to legislation committees. The  Clerk  read that notice. I would like to know what the procedure is. The only reason we want these Bills to be referred to a select committee is that there has been no official idication about what will happen to our motion that these Bills be referred to legislation committees. If the Leader of the House cares to give some explanation, we might save ourselves at least one division. 
A notice of motion becomes effective only when it appears on the Notice Paper. 
-Yes. I am seeking leave. 
No. The Leader of the House moved that the motion be now put, if I recall correctly. 
The only point I would like to make is that this is quite involved legislation. I quite honestly and sincerely say, as I said earlier- obviously most honourable members were not here then- that I challenge most honourable members opposite to tell me the meaning of much of the contents of the legislation that we are debating at the present timethe Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill and the Social Services Amendment Bill. Surely the types of committees we have established- the legislation committees- were set up for the purpose of getting some explanation from either the Minister in charge of the legislation or the Assistant Minister. It is quite obvious that this legislation will not be debated in the Senate before next week. So I cannot possibly see any reason why a legislation committee cannot meet for half an hour at some time tomorrow so that those of us who are interested in this can get some explanations. This probably would save us a lot of bother in dividing on about seven parts of the social security legislation. It just strikes me as being a much more sensible approach. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 Committal and consideration in committee: 

1 ) Standing order 222 be amended to read- 222. After the second reading, or when proceeding under standing order 221, after those proceedings have been disposed of, the House shall forthwith resolve itself into a committee of the whole for the consideration of the bill unless- 
the bill has been referred to a select committee; or 
the House refers the bill (not being an Appropriation or Supply Bill) to a legislation committee. Such referral shall be on motion moved by any Member, of which notice has been given, and shall be carried without any dissentient voice. A committee may be ordered to report by a specified date. 
Provided that, in lieu of proceeding under the foregoing provisions of this standing order, the House may grant leave for the question "That this bill - 
Notice of motion shall be given by a Member by either stating its terms to the House and delivering a copy to the  Clerk  or delivering a copy of its terms to the  Clerk.  The notice must be signed by the Member and seconder and show the day proposed for moving the motion. 
The honourable member for Prospect has given notice to the  Clerk. 
Question put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I emphasise to the Committee the reason why we have now decided to take each clause individually. An agreement was reached- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
An agreement was reached with the Minister at the table that we would have an intelligent and rational discussion. 
The honourable member for Bendigo is behaving in a loutish fashion. The Whip is behaving in a loutish fashion. 
Question put. 
I would like the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to explain to us the significance of the change that I read into  Hansard  last night. The relevant section of the principal Act as it will read after the passage of this clause is highly legalistic. We would like to hear the reason for the change. 
I indicate that the Opposition opposes the clauses of this Bill which deal with the removal of the Medibank Standard functions of the Health Insurance Commission. We agree with the other provisions which have been included in the Bill, which are partly machinery matters and partly matters of reconstituting the Health Insurance Commission, but we oppose the removal of the Medibank Standard functions. I have previously dealt with the reasons. We believe that payments ought to be made by the Health Insurance Commission and not by the private funds. That would be the correct way of approaching this change. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The only amendment the Opposition would suggest relates to clause 15 of the Bill, which proposes the insertion of a new section 20A in the Act. In subsection (2) (c) of proposed new section 20A, reference is made to the person by whom or on whose behalf the professional service is rendered being of the opinion that the beneficiary is a disadvantaged person. It is our belief that it should not be necessary for the doctor to hold that opinion provided he is prepared to accept as full payment 75 per cent of the common fee or, as it is defined in the legislation, the specified fee. The Opposition strongly opposes proposed subsection (2) (c), and were it not for the late hour we would divide on that question. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
I do not want to detain the Committee, but I would just like to explain to the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgson)  what is happening. Because the debate on clauses 5 and 6 was gagged we came to an agreement that we would have a more broadly based debate on clause 8, and I think that the Committee will probably appreciate that that is exactly what has happened. We have been able to get across our point of view and honourable members opposite have been able to put their point of view. I make the point that clauses 5 and 6 involve broken promises and that clause 8 is consequential to those broken promises. I am not saying that there are no arguments in favour of reintroducing a means test for pensioners over 70, but the fact that the Government has reintroduced it amounts to a broken promise. We removed the means test and the Government has now reintroduced it. The same applies to indexation being changed from sixmonthly to yearly indexation. The Government introduced six-monthly indexation in 1976 and is now changing it to yearly indexation. Yearly indexation represents a significant loss of income for a group in the community that can ill afford it. Whatever honourable members opposite say about the group that will not be getting any money because they will not qualify under the means test, they cannot say that the second group is not disadvantaged. Although they qualify under the means test they will be receiving their increases in November of each year based on consumer price index increases between June and the previous June so that by the time they get their increases some 16 months will have elapsed. That is what we are objecting to. Whilst the Government is justifying its actions on the basis of fighting inflation. I reiterate what I said in my speech at the second reading stage, I certainly do not consider it fair, nor does the Opposition, that that burden should be placed on that particular group in the community. It is interesting to note, as everybody in this chamber has noted today, that although many members on the Government side voted in favour of the changes, none of them are prepared to justify them. I exclude the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  whose job it is to justify them and who is well paid for doing so. I do not blame him for doing so but others on the Government side are also reasonably well paid. Why do they not justify it? 
-Clauses 21 and 22 abolish maternity allowances and clause 23 abolishes family allowances for certain persons receiving benefits under prescribed educational schemes. The Opposition opposes the three clauses. The argument against clauses 2 1 and 22 is fairly obvious. The Government has decided to abolish maternity allowances just at a time when a significant number of Australian families will have to contribute towards medical expenses associated with confinements. After Medibank was introduced by the WhitlamHayden Government in 1975 it was possible for persons to be confined and hospitalised without charge. Now charges will again be involved, and those charges are significant. 
I agree that to individual families $30 is not a huge amount. But when we take that in conjunction with the continuing reduction in the amount of money available to a family under the family allowance scheme as a result of the nonindexation of family allowances, there is a significant loss of spending money for the family. I speak in particular of young families which are faced with the burden of having an extra child. In this respect the Government's decision seems to be particularly mean. I am surprised that members of the Government parties have not opposed this proposal to abolish the maternity allowance. The Opposition certainly opposes it. 
Clause 23 seeks to abolish the payment of the family allowance for those students who are covered by certain prescribed education schemes. The six schemes are: The Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme; the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme; the Pre-School Teacher Education Assistance Scheme; the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme; the Commonwealth Teaching Service Scholarship Scheme; and the Post-Graduate Awards Scheme. The Opposition is opposing this part of the legislation because of what appears to be an anomaly. Parents of students have to qualify under a means test before those students can receive these benefits. Yet, these families will be unable to receive benefits in respect of the family allowance. The opposite is true in respect of the betteroff families. These families which do not qualify under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, for example, will still receive the family allowance in respect of their children. 
The question of means testing the family allowance was raised in another context in the Budget, and we all know that the Government changed its mind on the question of the abolition of the family allowance as far as the income of children is concerned. I think a fair bit of nonsense was talked about the scheme as proposed. As usually happens when an attempt is made to bring in a fairer scheme, attention is drawn to deserving cases such as widows. In this instance, the deserving case, are newsboys. We all know that there are other sections of the community in respect of which the Government would be quite reasonably justified in abolishing the family allowance. I refer to the case in which the child is being used as part of a tax avoidance scheme and has significant income via a family trust or some  othersimilarmethod.Itisverydifficulttojustify  the payment of the family allowance to such families. I certainly hope the Government will continue to look for some fairer method of means testing the family allowance. What we are concerned with here is just the opposite. I again emphasise the fact that we are dealing with the abolition of the family allowance in the case of those families which have already passed a means test. However, there will be no abolition of the family allowance in the case of other families whose children are attending tertiary institutions up to the age of 25 years. The Opposition will therefore oppose all three clauses. 
-I would like to take a couple of minutes to recapitulate what is contained in this Bill and to point out what has happened during the debate on this Bill. The contents of the Bill are concerned mainly with changing indexation from six monthly to yearly, reintroducing a means test on pensions for those over 70, the abolition of the maternity allowance and a reduction in the unemployment benefit. I emphasise again that whilst, for practical purposes, no member of the Government parties was prepared to give support to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, nearly every one of them voted for these changes. I hope that their constituents in their electorates note that before the last election and before the election in 1975 they published leaflets promising certain things but now were prepared to vote for the change from six monthly indexation to yearly indexation, the re-introduction of the means test, the abolition of the maternity benefit and the reduction in the unemployment benefit. I hope that when their constituents see how they have behaved they will take appropriate action with them at the next election. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The amendments proposed in this legislation are numerous and, as I pointed out yesterday, on the Opposition side oppose nearly all of them. The main amendments deal with changes to the pension entitlements of pulmonary tuberculosis sufferers, the majority of whom will be much worse off; the abolition of their sustenance allowance; the introduction of yearly instead of six monthly adjustments to repatriation pensions; and the introduction of a means test for certain repatriation pensioners. 
The changes in the pulmonary tuberculosis allowances are significant. Whilst I do not want to go over the whole of yesterday's debate again I would like to read into the record part of an article written by Padre A. Singleton which I understand will be included in the next issue of a journal called  Mia Mia  produced by the TB Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association of Victoria. The article in part reads: 
Eighteen months ago, when Government intentions to make drastic changes to the Repatriation Act including the elimination of automatic 100 per cent pension for TB were announced, the first reaction was stunned incredulity. None of us ever thought it likely that any Government, of whatever political party, would take away rights and privileges that had been promised by a previous Government in the days when the community realised that it did have responsibilities towards those whose disabilities were the direct result of war service. 
Representations made in the proper quarters seemed to bear fruit, and it was with a sense of relief and thankfulness that the news of not proceeding with the legislation was received. 
Now, one election (and two years before the next) later, not only has the proposal been revived; it is also being implemented even before the necessary legislation has been introduced to Parliament and passed. Not surprisingly, the reaction this time is horror. 
Later in his article Padre Singleton states: 
But, and this is most important for patients from the two wars, even where treatment was effective, and there has been no relapse, it took time sometimes a very long time for the healing process of nature to assert itself. This, of itself, had a most adverse effect, which, in many cases was to prove lifelong. 
Because their discharge was deferred through the incidence of TB just at the very time that their contemporaries and fellowservicemen were being rehabilitated and reestablished in their careers after the years of war service, TB patients lost ground. By the time they were ready to re-enter the work force, opportunities had been lost, and in many cases were never to be repeated. 
Some missed out on vital qualifications, many found themselves junior to those who filled the vacant posts before they had the chance to apply; and over the years, promotion has left them behind. It is impossible to estimate the statistics of this situation, or to have any real idea of what TB costs its sufferers in terms of prospects and achievements in their trades or professions. Sufficient to say that this intangible is a very real disability, and a permanent one. William Shakespeare is our spokesman for this: 
There is a tide in the affairs of men, 
Which taken at the flood, leads on to fortune; 
Omitted, all the voyage of their life 
Is bound in shallows and in miseries. 
In addition to the material disadvantages to which Padre Singleton refers there are obviously social disadvantages. For a long time tuberculosis sufferers were treated as outcasts in the community. Of course, this is no longer the case. But they were treated as such because the people who were scared of them were not aware of the relative difficulty of catching tuberculosis compared with most other infectious diseases. Many people who were known to have suffered from tuberculosis now have significant social disadvantages. I assume that most of us know that many people have some sign of tuberculosis infection which never won its fight with the body's resistance. Yet, people were particularly scared of being in contact with tuberculosis sufferers. I now return to Padre Singleton's article. The Padre stated: 
The bright spot of all of us was the realisation that we had the resources of the Department of Repatriation behind us, and, secure in the promises made at the time, our lifestyle became geared to the 100 per cent pension and its fringe benefits. An offshoot of this was that, because of the right and privilege of full medical treatment for most disabilities, rights were not always exercised, and when various disabilities made themselves obvious, we received treatment, but did not take any action to have them accepted as due to war service, because it seemed so unnecessary. 
My comment is that most people were already covered. The document continues: 
To have disabilities of long standing accepted as due to war service now becomes much more difficult, because of the long delay, and omission to collect evidence which once may have been available. Where disabilities not due to war service have developed, it may seem fair, on the face of it, to lose entitlement to treatment which we have enjoyed in the past. But every disability, especially those which are chronic, is taken into account in any application to join a health insurance fund; if forced to join such funds now, many will find they receive no benefits from it; because of the exclusion of chronic complaints, health insurance cover will not be available just where it is needed most. If anyone had need to join such a fund years ago, before a present chronic complaint developed, full cover would now be available. Losing a fringe benefit now, means for many that no provision can be made for a substitute. 
With the passing of the years, many of the veterans of World WarII are at the stage where retirement is imminent, and the projected changes as regards 100 per cent pension and fringe benefits must have an adverse effect in plans and expectations for this. 
The final sentence states: 
Populations and politicians change, but not, we sincerely hope and trust, the meaning of integrity. 
I think that Padre Singleton has made out an excellent case for the reconsideration of this decision by the Government. The expectation is that the decision will save the Government $3m in the current financial year. The position is a bit rough. I must admit that I had not thought about the final point he made, namely, that difficulties will be caused by persons who until now had no necessity to belong to any medical benefit fund. Now that these people have a chronic condition which is not related to war service- nobody claims that it is related to war service- they will not be accepted by any medical or hospital benefit fund. They will not be able to get cover for that condition, at least at certain levels. There must be many people who now have arthritis and other conditions which it would be difficult to argue are war service related. But if they had not had the benefits of which they are being deprived now, many of them, by necessity, would have had to belong to some private health fund and they now would have been covered for these conditions. Now, they will not be covered because I assume that the funds will not accept responsibility for the conditions in these cases. I hope that the Government will have another look at this proposal before the Bill goes to the Senate. Honourable senators also have been circulated with a copy of this document by this Association. I know that they will look at it and have another discussion with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs when he returns from overseas or with the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs at the present time. Perhaps some special provision or some contribution can be made by the Government to Medibank Private to ensure that Medibank Private will accept these people as contributors without loss of benefits. I think that such an arrangement with Medibank Private would not cost the Government very much. It may well give these people benefits and, most importantly, peace of mind. 
Do not let us forget the reason these benefits were introduced in respect of tuberculosis. We should not forget the reason that tuberculosis was treated differently from other illnesses from which ex-servicemen were suffering. At a time when the medical profession had very little other armamentarium, it accepted that serenity, if that is the correct term to use, in the minds of sufferers certainly helped to cure the condition of the sufferers. All we could do with these people was to put them into sanatoria and hope that they would cure themselves- that their resistance would overcome the bacillus. As we all know, it is now easier to deal with this bacillus. The amount of money involved is relatively small. I appeal to the Government to have another look at the matter. 
In passing, I make one other remark which deals with the abolition of the sustenance allowance. This Bill proposes that the sustenance allowance will be withdrawn and replaced by a loss of earnings allowance. It may seem fair on the surface that the ex-serviceman must show there has been a loss of earnings to receive a sustenance allowance. At the present time, an exserviceman is entitled to a sustenance allowance, amongst other things, when he is in hospital and when he is under active treatment by his medical practitioner. But I think that quite often extra expenses are involved for a family when someone from the family is a patient in hospital. There is no loss of income but there is a loss so far as the family is concerned. I have received letters from wives of ex-servicemen pointing out, for example, that when their husbands, who are pensioners, go into hospital they have to employ somebody to do the gardening, mow the lawn and do all the other sorts of things that husbands normally do. I realise also that a saving is involved for the family because the husband does not have to be fed during the time he is hospitalised. But in the case where a sustenance allowance is paid in respect of a patient who is not in hospital but who is at home and receiving active treatment, that saving does not occur and the disadvantage does occur. Again, I hope that the Government will have a look at that aspect of the matter for that purpose. 
I have raised these points knowing that in a few minutes I will be moving that the Bill be referred to a legislation committee. I assume from the way in which the daily program is printed that the motion will not be adopted. I wished to raise those points at the meeting of the legislation committee to get some undertakings from the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs and his advisers and to have some discussion on some of the points I have raised. A number of other points also were raised in the debate yesterday. I again appeal to the Minister. Whilst I do not expect him to give me an undertaking now that he will change the proposals, I ask the Government to have another look at the matter before the amending legislation is introduced into the Senate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be referred to a legislation committee. 
In support of the motion I would make only two points. There are two parts of this amending legislation on which the Opposition would like more information as to the actual method of dealing with the legislation, the intentions of the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the reason for introducing the changes. The first change, which we have talked about for some time, is the provision that pulmonary tuberculosis be dealt with in the same way as other disabilities. In other words, exactly what is going to happen to those who at present are covered completely and receive a 100 per cent pension. The second change about which I am not quite sure and about which the Opposition seeks information on the sort of money that is involved, the points that will be taken into consideration under the amended legislation and whether there should be further amendments to make it easier for exservicemen to receive benefits concerns the removal of the sustenance allowance, which will be replaced under this legislation by a loss of earnings allowance. The removal of the sustenance allowance is a completely new point. In regard to the loss of earnings allowance there may be all kinds of interpretations as far as loss of earnings is concerned. Can there be a loss of earnings only when persons have been employed? Can it apply also to people who may have been able to receive some money during the time they were hospitalised or under treatment? What about persons who would be able to work but for the condition from which they are suffering? Those are the sorts of questions I would like to put to the Acting Minister for Veterans' Affairs and his advisers at a legislation committee meeting. 
-We are dealing with three Bills which have a basic aim to introduce changes to the health insurance system and which were given to this House by the Minister on the night of the Budget. There is one additional change which enables dental practitioners to prescribe drugs under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. The Opposition has no objection to that. The Bills deal with the proposed changes. Let us be clear what those changes are. As far as hospitalisation is concerned, what is proposed is that from now on as previously, patients, persons, Australian residents going into a standard ward of a public hospital will receive free hospital treatment. This has been the case ever since the introduction of Medibank No. 1 by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  back in 1975. The only change is that to obtain that treatment until now, ever since the introduction of the levy by this present Government in 1976, people had to pay a 2.5 per cent levy on their income. They will now no longer have to pay that levy, so obviously that is a step in the right direction. 
On the question of medical treatment, the position has been that those who were considered to be levy payers, those who paid 2.5 per cent levy or those who did not earn enough to pay the levy, until the end of June this year were entitled to 85 per cent refund of the common fee. Since 1 July, because of the changes introduced in May this year, they have been entitled to a 75 per cent refund and an 85 per cent refund if they are eligible pensioners. From now on eligible pensioners will receive an 85 per cent refund. Those whom doctors consider to be disadvantaged persons will be able to be bulk billed. The doctor will receive 75 per cent. For the rest of the community there will be a 40 per cent refund, again without a levy. It is estimated that this will cost the Government $62 lm in a full financial year. There will be a loss to the Government in revenue of $3 16m due to the abolition of the levy, and the payment of $305m in added outlays in paying the 40 per cent across the board, plus 75 per cent in certain cases. 
This Government is not noted for the Father Christmas spirit. We have just debated a number of pieces of legislation which have taken away relatively small amounts of money in the interests of what the Government considers is fighting inflation. It has imposed quite significant restrictions on pensioners and, as we know, on ex-servicemen entitled to repatriation benefits. The total savings have been very small when considering the $62 lm we are dealing with at present. The reason for this was the very great concern of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the consumer price index increases. He decided that by the abolition of the levy and the payment of the 40 per cent medical cost there would be a significant reduction in the CPI and the money would be recovered by slugging pensioners and repatriation beneficiaries and by the imposition of a 1.5 per cent tax surcharge across the board. Unless the Government reintroduces the levy in some form next year I predict quite clearly that the tax surcharge will continue and that, if anything, it will be increased in the next Budget. This is a sleight of hand on the part of the Government because the cost to all those who were levy payers will be almost the same. The increase in tax of 1.5 per cent compared with the previous 2.5 per cent - 
-It is a one per cent difference, but on the other hand they will get a refund of only 40 per cent instead of the 85 per cent they receive until 1 July. So either people take the risk, as I suggest they ought to do, or they take out insurance, which would make up the one per cent. There will be no benefit for the levy payers and those who are not levy payers will be significantly worse off, provided they are taxpayers, because they will be paying the 1.5 per cent and all they will get in return is payment of 40 per cent of their medical costs. At this stage I wish to foreshadow the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2): 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide- 
for the bulk billing by doctors prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment, 
2 ) for the bulk billing for eligible pensioners at 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment, 
for the payment of a 75 per cent refund for medical bills, and 
that the Health Insurance Commission continue to be the paying authority '. 
I should like to quote now from a statement made by the Australian Medical Association, an organisation with which I do not have the best of relations. However, occasionally I do agree with some of the points it makes, and I think that this is a significant point with which even the Minister for Health, who is at the table, will not disagree. The AMA has stated: 
The cost containment debate rages on in the absence of any explicit agreement on how much the community wants to spend on health services, whether the present level is too high or too low, or whether the rise in health costs is too fast or not. The debate is catalysed by irregular but frequent changes to health financing arrangements by the Commonwealth Government of the time, sometimes for reasons of community health and welfare and sometimes to help balance the books. It's time we sat back and had a calmer look at what's going on. 
That is a quotation from an AMA paper on the cost of health care, and I certainly agree with it. Many many amendments have been made to the health insurance scheme since this Government came to power. It has been in power since 1975 and during the 1975 election campaign the Liberal and National Country parties made a clear commitment to maintain Medibank. The commitment was repeated when the Government made the first changes in 1976. The Bills with which we are now dealing contain the fourth very major change to health insurance organisation in only three years. I think that most of us would agree that making so many changes is not the best way to go about it. Instability has become the curse of the Australian health insurance system. This is the eighth occasion in just over two years on which the National Health Act has been amended and the sixth occasion on which the Health Insurance Act has been amended by this Government. This charade of health insurance policy formulation has left the Australian public understandably confused and insecure. 
One of the points with which I would like to deal is the proposition that somehow we are in a state of crisis as far as health costs are concerned. 
People tend to respond to what they perceive as crises by jumping up and down and doing things, being seen to be doing things because there is a crisis. They cannot sit back and think about it intelligently and in some detail. We do not know, and we cannot guess and make an absolute statement, how much ought to be spent in this country on health care, basically because we cannot define need. We know that the proportion of the gross domestic product represented by health expenditure in Australia is just about dead average in relation to other countries with which we might reasonably be compared. Doctor Scotton has compared health expenditures for 19 countries, showing how actual expenditures compare with the level of expenditure which might be expected on the basis of relative national income. The big spenders on that basis are the Netherlands and Ireland, with Germany, Italy, the United States of America, France and Sweden also well above the expected levels. The most parsimonious countries are Switzerland, Greece and Belgium, with Norway, Finland and the United Kingdom spending at levels below what might be expected from per capita gross domestic product. Australia is in the middle group, with health expenditure almost exactly as predicted on the basis of actual gross domestic product but noticeably below the prediction in relation to trend gross domestic product. It is worth noting that the method of public financing affects total costs only indirectly, if at all. Countries with very high levels of social insurance are found not only at the lower end of the scaleBelgium, Norway and Finland- but also at the upper end- the Netherlands, Ireland and Germany. The United States of America and Sweden have very similar levels of per capita health expenditure with diametrically opposed methods of national health financing. 
Health costs are not in a state of crisis, I emphasise again, in the medical sense of the word. It has been said that the situation is spiralling out of control, to be retrieved only by some heroic intervention, a dramatic change in the course of events or the death of the patient. The Government is reacting as if we are in a state of extreme crisis. On 24 May this year, when the last changes were introduced into the House, the Minister said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
That improved data base did not materialise magically. Indeed, the changes made by the 
Government in October 1976 made the availability of precise statistical information all the more unlikely. Yet major adjustments are being made again. One must feel sympathy for the Minister, having to introduce these clumsy changes in the light of his earlier commitment. Clearly, pressure from the Prime Minister has proved to be too much. It is apparent that his leader holds a grudge against the Labor-initiated Medibank, which has won respect for its efficiency and has proved to be a viable competitive public organisation. The Prime Minister's attitude towards Medibank, an attitude which borders on an obsession, demonstrates that efficiency is to be tolerated only when those who practise it concur with his ideological prejudices. Spite has been the primary motivation in this further move in the dismantling of Medibank, spite because the Health Insurance Commission recommended the retention of bulk billing. The Government's ideological prejudices against bulk billing are well known to be aligned with those of the private funds. Misleading claims are frequently made by those sources to the effect that bulk billing leads to unnecessary claims. However, the Commission found that not only were there slightly less services per person where a patient was bulk billed but that individual claims were at a substantially lower cost than non-bulk billed claims. The Government was piqued at these findings and the Commission's recommendations, and I refer now to those recommendations. 
The Commission analysed the relationship between billing type and the number of services rendered. An analysis was made of a random sample of approximately 49,000 Health Insurance Commission members on which medical claims had been made. It revealed a total of approximately 160,000 services. So we can see quite clearly that that sort of random sample ought to be statistically very accurate. With a random sample of, I think, fewer than 1,000 persons, all the polls were able to predict the overwhelming victory of the Wran Government last Saturday to the nearest percentage point. Yet the Health Insurance Commission, on behalf of the Government, took a random sample of 49,000 individuals. It came up with the following results: 
In each case statistically significant results were obtained. The first analysis . . . showed that for the period under study persons whose services were 100 per cent bulk-billed received an average of 3.12 services, 0.17 less than persons who have 0 per cent of services direct-billed. That is a rate of 5.2 per cent less than for non-direct-billed patients. 
I think that this shows quite clearly that bulkbilling was in the interests of the consumer and, I would argue, in the interests of the medical practitioner who was prepared to bulk bill, and in the monetary interests of government. But the Government chose to ignore the advice of the Health Insurance Commission and abolished bulk billing in June this year. Now it has gone to the point of actually destroying the Medibank Standard part of the Health Insurance Commission. 
With the reconstitution of the Health Insurance Commission the Government has further restricted its pool of advice. That pool of advice is now restricted, for practical purposes, to the Australian Medical Association, the private funds and to the rather conservative head of the Department of Health.  Dr Howells  is a very nice gentleman but his attitude on health is certainly interesting for a public servant, because he is completely committed to what he calls the 'private enterprise environment ' of medical practice! 
He may well be a very distinguished physician, but he has a particular point of view. It is not necessary for me to argue at this point that his view is an incorrect one. All I am saying is that the Government is getting opinions from one side of the fence only, and that is never a good thing. I do not think that the font of wisdom about health insurance is concentrated on one particular side of politics or on one particular side of ideology. 
Yes, but it is a good thing for the Minister to have the advice of other people. The public and the Medibank employees who face job insecurity will pay dearly for the Government's ideological obsessions. The changes to health insurance will cost the Government an estimated $62 lm, as I said. There are numerous reasons why financial strife will eventuate and why the processing of the universal Commonwealth benefit by a multiplicity of private funds will become an administrative and costly nightmare. These changes will involve a massive transfer of payments from potential health care expenditure to expenditure on the administration of health care costs. Surely this is a retrograde and an unnecessary step, and an extremely expensive political point. 
The private funds have at least temporarily agreed to accept $1.52, as I understand it, as a processing fee for the universal Commonwealth benefit. We have no guarantee that this figure will remain stationary. In fact the reverse is likely. The fee has been based upon that paid by 
Medibank to Queensland Manchester Unity Independent Order of Oddfellows for processing Medibank claims. It has been estimated that there are 16 additional cost factors which have kept this fee at an artifically low level which other funds cannot match in the long run. Complex claims and overseas claims have been passed on to Medibank, as were claims due for reprocessing and adjustment following rejection. A great number of additional costs such as stationery, branch establishments, printing, courier services, computer programming and photographic costs have been met by Medibank. Queensland Manchester Unity has no general inquiry system. Its selected staff are Medibank trained and it has a network of honorary lodge secretaries who handle gratis claims, collection and checking. 
Given this plethora of additional cost factors, it has been estimated that the majority of funds will require anything up to $4.50 in the not too distant future for processing a benefit that, for a general practitioner visit, will be $3.20. These funds will pay out a claim of $3.20 and the amount paid to them will be $1.52. That is at present; it may well rise to what the funds claim is necessary- $4.50. That this fee would escalate to 140 per cent of the actual benefits value is surely a quite farcical situation. 
It is evident that, unless Medibank is made the sole processor of the Commonwealth benefit, we will witness an inevitable and an alarming escalation of costs- costs that will not result in any public gains. Costs are not only to be measured in terms of those to the taxpayer who foots the bill for this unnecessary proliferation, but also to those of the low average health standards, who will suffer higher premiums, given the rational movement of the more fortunate away from private health insurance. The average so-called community-based pool of health insurance will be destroyed. This was a method of not only averaging our costs over the community at a given time, but also averaging costs for each family over a lifetime rather than paying most at a time when it has least resources to call upon. 
The new system is clearly inequitable. It is a notable retreat from the concept of a universal health insurance scheme that most Australians have approved. The burden of health costs has been shifted from the public to the less readily controlled private sector, from higher to lower income earners and from those in good health to those in poor health. It is likely that the migrants, the Aborigines and the large families who are unaware of the possibility of finding a doctor who will bulk bill them will be deterred from seeking early treatment and thus will need hospital treatment later on, at even greater expense. 
In addition, there is the inestimable cost in anxiety to Medibank employees, who, through no fault of their own, have become political footballs and who face the possibility of retrenchment in times of high unemployment. The Government has refused to give these employees any guarantee of security of employment. Of course it has courteously requested the funds to draw additionally required staff from Medibank employees. Knowing the funds' prejudices against Medibank, however, they may not readily turn to their former employees. Furthermore, given present Public Service staff ceilings, which have been reduced, Medibank employees can only be reallocated to the detriment of fellow public servants. Despite assurances to the contrary, these employees are being left in the dark about their future. Staff reassessments will be made and Medibank employees have been told that they will not know their position until January. 
Many significant changes are being made. I think that at this stage, before going further into the general issues, I should give my own advice to persons who are facing a decision as to what they want to do, as they see it, probably before 1 November and, as I see it, before 1 January. My advice is that unless those persons have members of the family who are chronically ill or who are likely to require surgery under private conditions, they should certainly not take out medical cover. My advice is and always has been that persons should not take out what is called 'doctor of choice' or private hospital cover; but this is purely a question for individuals. If people feel that they should take out doctor of choice cover, which will give them some limited say in who will be their medical practitioner in a hospital, then obviously they will take out that cover. In passing, I make the comment that this particular piece of legislation will increase the cost of that cover by 75c or 80c a week for a family because of the removal of the subsidy. I am not strongly opposed to the removal of the subsidy. My own view is that doctor of choice cover should not be encouraged. I realise that a significant number of people in the community feel that this is a terribly important point. So, by all means they should take out doctor-of-choice cover. 
Turning to the advice as far as medical cover is concerned, everybody will be entitled to a refund of 40 per cent of the common fee with a maximum payment by the contributor of $20 a service. I repeat, there will be a maximum payment of $20 a service and a minimum refund of 40 per cent. Just exactly what will people get? I am looking at the figures for the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd in Victoria which were published today. I assume that the rates in New South Wales will be even higher. The proposition is that to get 75 per cent cover contributors will have to pay $2.70 a week, and to get 100 per cent cover they will pay $4.30. This is purely medical insurance. When funds talk about 75 per cent cover, all they are really giving contributors is 35 per cent cover. They are calling it 75 per cent cover, but 40 per cent of that comes from the Government. It comes out of Consolidated Revenue. So a contributor for medical insurance will pay $2.70 a week for a refund which amounts to approximately the same- about $2.70- for any one visit to a doctor. In other words, a person would have to go to a doctor once a week to come out square. How many families in this country require one visit a week to a doctor? Not very many. 
But the most expensive payment is $20. How many people would take out any insurance to cover themselves against that sort of a charge? Let us assume that things are bad as far as one family is concerned and a member of the family has major surgery requiring an anaesthetist, an assistant, a couple of tests, all involving an expenditure of $100 or $120. The contributor or his relative is entitled to go in as a standard ward patient, in which case it does not cost anything. But let us assume that the person wants to go into a private hospital or to have a doctor-of-choice bed in a public hospital. Then the maximum expenditure could be $100 or $ 1 50, looking at a very serious illness. In order to get full cover a person has to pay insurance of $4.26 a week, otherwise he is covered for only half. In other words, he has to pay something of the order of $230 a year to get a maximum refund of about $120. How many families have significant surgery in any one year? 
-I bet that the honourable member is not going to pay insurance. 
In that case he has less sense than I thought he had. I have heard him speak on other issues and I thought that he was a quite rational sort of a bloke. 
Exactly. 
-People are entitled to look for a doctor who bulk bills. They ought to be looking for doctors who bulk bill. They ought to be putting pressure on doctors to bulk bill, in which case it does not cost them anything. 
How can he be up for $ 120? Nobody will be up for $120 in any one week. I am talking about medical expenditure. All I am arguing is that people should rationally look at the proposition. The majority of people in Australia take out unnecessary insurance cover. I am sure that it applies to other types of insurance also, but I am not speaking today on other insurance. If the honourable member for Hotham is an insurance salesman, good luck to him. There is a $ 100 excess payment on car insurance claims. Honourable members opposite are suggesting that people ought to be taking out insurance at a cost of $200-plus a year in order to get a very, very small return. On top of all that, in the case of persons like ourselves who are relatively well off, the actual expenditure on medical service becomes a tax deduction and the Government subsidises it by another 33V4 per cent. However, payments to the health insurance industry are not tax deductible. So it becomes even more unnecessary, unprofitable and more irrational for people to take out medical insurance cover. 
May I finish on one final point. If people behave rationally, as I would advise them to do, and if the young people and the people who do not have chronic conditions pull out of the medical insurance funds, the final pool remaining will not be a typical pool and medical contribution rates will increase. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House is of the opinionthat the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide- 
1 ) for the bulk billing by doctors prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment, 
for the bulk billing for eligible pensioners at 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment, 
) for the payment of a 75 per cent refund for medical bills, and 
that the Health Insurance Commission continue to be the paying authority'. 
I would like to take a couple of minutes to explain the difference between this amendment and the present proposal. Paragraph (2) of the amendment refers to bulk billing for eligible pensioners at 85 per cent of the common fee in full payment. That provision is already contained in the legislation but the other three points in the amendment are not. So that the position would not be misunderstood, we included that point in the amendment also. Paragraph (1) of the amendment deals with bulk billing by doctors who are prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment. Basically, that would eliminate the reference to the patient having to be disadvantaged. The Government would continue to pay in this way provided the doctor is prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full payment. Then all the terrible predictions of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  would not eventuate; or maybe they would eventuate because everybody would be able to get that kind of bulk billing provided the doctors were prepared to accept that benefit. I think that it is wrong for doctors to have to make a judgment about whether a person is disadvantaged. It is a meaningless term because people can be disadvantaged in all kinds of ways which have nothing to do with their ability to pay 100 per cent of the common fee or 150 per cent of the common fee. I always remember the remark made by Sammy Davis Junior when people were asking him about golf. He was asked what was his handicap. He said: 'I am a one-eyed Jewish negro'. I take it that that makes him a disadvantaged person but it certainly would not mean that it would be impossible for him to pay the doctor 's full fee. The proposition I am putting is that this should not be necessary. 
The third point raised in the amendment proposes the payment of a 75 per cent refund for medical bills. In effect, it is a compromise between the scheme being proposed now and the original Medibank scheme. The original Medibank scheme permitted an 85 per cent refund for medical bills whether the doctor rendered his accounts or had patients pay accounts on the spot. In this case, the patient receives a refund of 75 per cent. Honourable members can see the difference between cases one and three in the amendment. In case one, the doctor accepts 75 per cent of the common fee payment in full payment. In the third case, the doctor apparently is expecting a payment amounting to 100 per cent or 150 per cent of the common fee and the patient is able to recover 75 per cent of the common fee. 
Finally, the amendment contains the proposition that the Health Insurance Commission should be the paying authority. I think that it is wrong we certainly feel strongly on this issue that the private funds should become the paying authority. This gives them access to the details of a person's health status because they are the paying authority in respect of that 40 per cent refund. They will be able to advertise selectively to non-contributors the people who are registered with them to persuade them to take out insurance. Honourable members know my. views on much of this insurance. I believe that it is necessary insurance. Therefore, it is wrong that the Government should insist that the names, addresses and all those other personal and intimate health details of contributors should be provided to a private organisation which can receive commercial benefit from that knowledge. I think that is wrong and I am surprised that the Government does not realise that it is wrong. Whatever exceptions there may be to the rule we know about this from another issue that has been before the Parliament in the last few days public servants at least take some oath on the question of secrecy and not using information that comes to them for their personal benefit. Obviously no such oath is taken by employees of the private funds or by the people who are running them. 
I think it is wrong that a private fund should know, for example, what is wrong with me, whether I had had treatment for appendicitis, a hysterectomy or whatever. I think that it is wrong on two grounds. Firstly, people would feel unhappy about it but I am referring to the matter on the commercial basis. It gives the funds an advantage in that knowing the claims history they can offer certain types of insurance to particular people. I assume that the intelligent funds will offer their scales and tables mainly to people who have received hardly any of those 40 per cent refunds. Obviously, the funds will prefer to attract young people as contributors I noticed in today's Melbourne  Age  or the  Australian  a reference to the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd offering young people health insurance on a 50c basis. But if people look at what they will get for the 50c a week, they will see that they will get virtually nothing. When I say 'nothing', they will receive nothing related to medical benefits for the payment of that fee. 
Ambulance and dental services and so on. But this scheme is being promoted as a medical-hospital type of table. I think that it is wrong for the funds to obtain that sort of access to individuals. They can find out people's names, addresses, ages and health status. That is the reason we are moving this amendment. 
-Much has been said by the private health insurance funds and the Australian Medical Association, as well as the close associates in this House of those organisations, in favour of persons indiscriminately- I emphasise the word indiscriminately'- taking out medical insurance after 1 November. I consider this to be highly hypocritical coming from those who when attacking the original Medibank, and especially bulk billing, argued for years that this country's economy would collapse if the patient did not pay at the point of service. The AMA and the funds want people to join at maximum rates because that would give them- that is, the AMA and the funds- maximum profits. They are obviously speaking through their pockets. 
The State governments will also benefit financially if people enter hospitals as private patients. This Government will not benefit. Let me explain that. Every so-called 'doctor of choice' patient or private patient in a public hospital contributes $40 or $60 towards his daily bed cost of about $150. Under the cost sharing arrangements this saves the State governments almost half of the patient contribution. But the Commonwealth must balance this against the fact that it has to pay the universal Commonwealth benefit in relation to the medical costs of these patients while they are in hospital because they are fee for service patients. In many cases this medical cost to the Commonwealth will exceed the saving on daily bed costs, and it will therefore be in the interests of the Commonwealth Treasury to increase the proportion of standard ward patients. 
Let us be quite clear as to why this Government has decided to reduce the direct cost of medical services to the consumer by means of a subsidy of $621 m in a full year, which is brought about by the abolition of the levy and the introduction of a universal medical benefit amounting to 40 per cent or more of the common fee, with nobody paying more than $20 for each medical service. The reason for this generosity is to cheat the wage earners out of a significant portion of their next two wage indexation increases by replacing the health levy by the so-called 'temporary' across-the-board tax increase. The health levy abolition and the associated decrease in the cost of medical insurance will result in the consumer price index being reduced while at the same time it will not be increased by the tax imposition. 
In an effort to help those who will suffer financial loss because of this move, I suggest to all 
Australians, both current levy payers and contributors to private funds, that they think very carefully before they commit themselves to health insurance expenditure after 1 November. They should remember that whilst the changes come into effect on 1 November there is no need to join any fund before 31 December, event if they finally decide to do so. Anybody joining a fund before 3 1 December is covered immediately but a person can probably save 8 weeks' contributions by not joining until that date. If such a person would care to send half the money he saves to the Australian Labor Party's election fund, we would certainly appreciate it. 
The changes make it no longer compulsory for Australian residents to pay health insurance. They must choose whether to insure with a private fund or to accept the new universal Commonwealth benefit. This benefit will cover 40 per cent or more of the common fee for each medical service, with a maximum patient payment of $20 for any one service when the common fee is charged. In addition, accommodation in standard wards of public hospitals where treatment is provided by doctors engaged by the hospital will continue to be available free of charge to those persons who are not privately insured for hospital care. 
The arrangement under which doctors bulk bill the Commonwealth in relation to pensioner health benefit card holders and their dependants who are not privately insured will continue. Bulk billing arrangements will also be available for persons identified by their doctor as 'disadvantaged'. That term has not been defined. In such cases doctors will receive 75 per cent of the schedule fee in full payment for each service. It is to the advantage of people to find a doctor who is willing to bulk bill. If a doctor refuses to do this generally or refuses to do it in the case of a particular person or a particular family, the 40 per cent or $20 gap Commonwealth benefit arrangement applies. In order to receive this payment the patient must register at no charge with the private fund of his choice. I recommend registering with Medibank Private to help preserve it as a competitor to the other private funds and to help preserve the jobs of its staff. Medibank Private is already accepting such registrations. 
The biggest savings under these new arrangements will go to those who carefully tailor their insurance to their needs. Medical, hospital and ancillary insurance options should be evaluated separately. Generally, for contributors to medical insurance to break even, they will need more than one general practitioner consultation a week or more than two separate major espisodes, certainly major surgical episodes, as private patients in hospital a year. Very few people in this community are likely to come into those categories. The rest of their contributions will pay for the administration and profits of the private funds. I will explain the position in New South Wales and then will ask for leave to incorporate a table which gives similar figures for the other States. In New South Wales, in order to get an extra 35 per cent refund, people would be paying $3.40 a week, getting back $3.12 for a standard general practitioner consultation and reducing the maximum gap from $20 to $10 a service. A 60 per cent cover, giving a 100 per cent refund with the universal Commonwealth benefit will cost about $4.70 a week. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a similar table for the other States. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810194_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

People should also consider their hospital insurance cover carefully. Keep in mind that the medical staff at public hospitals are often the most highly qualified and the facilities in public hospitals are generally the best. Also keep in mind, however, that standard ward accommodation may be scarce for optional nonurgent operations. The actual scarcity of accommodation obviously varies from area to area. To summarise the position as I see it, my advice would be to assess carefully one's needs and make whatever savings are possible. Only those people with chronic conditions requiring very frequent medical attention or those people with large families requiring frequent medical attention should consider taking out medical insurance. I emphasise that I am speaking about medical insurance. With regard to hospital insurance, people must decide whether they are willing to accept free standard ward accommodation with care by a hospital doctor, which often is the best care available, or whether they wish to have at least a theoretical choice of doctor or private hospital cover. 
They should remember that standard ward treatment, with the removal of the levy, is now again completely free as under the original Medibank scheme. The relative cost of insurance is much higher now. The actual hospital insurance has not been increased by the funds but in fact it will increase by about 80c a week for what is called Hospital 1 cover because the Government has withdrawn the subsidy. The Annis are scared that people will drop out immediately, so at this stage they are carrying that extra cost. In any case the real cost will be the same as it is at present. The relative cost of insurance is of course much higher because it is no longer being compared with the  2Vi  per cent levy which one had to pay if one opted for standard ward treatment. From now on people will not be paying any levy. 
I hope that this general discussion will help people to make a rational decision. I deplore the fact that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  yesterday in reply to a Dorothy Dix question called my advice 'irresponsible'. I do not think it is irresponsible. It is one of the options. One of the pities is that the Minister when he announced the changes on the night on which the Budget was delivered in fact quite strongly emphasised that this is one of the choices, and it is a real choice. Yesterday he implied that only people who are well off can afford to take that choice. The proposition is that people who are not well off should pay all that extra money. It is the people who are not well off and cannot afford to pay the extra $3.40 a week who should be thinking very carefully. 
-I am not disputing the situation concerning hospital insurance. I have made that point. The maximum cost for any one medical service is $ 10. If a person has an operation involving a surgeon, an anaesthetist and assistant, a number of pathology tests and x-rays, the total cost would be not more than $100 or $120. Is it not ridiculous to take out insurance for that amount? Everyone of us takes out car insurance where that excess is built in. People do not pay the extra money for the excess. It is deplorable to have to pay for it. Nobody likes to pay it. But why pay $3.40 a week in order to reduce the medical costs to half the total amount? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister is asked in view of the presence in Canberra of the  President  and Ministers of the Federal Republic of Germany. Is the Prime Minister aware that Germany has a contributory system of pensions and that these are not paid to German migrants to this country if they become naturalised Australian citizens? What is the Government doing to eliminate this discrimination in view of the fact that even noncontributory Australian pensions are paid to those who are eligible without regard to nationality or place of residence? 
-The Department of Science covers a fairly wide range of activities. The most dominant of its responsibilities covered in the estimates is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which is dominant in both the scale of its operation, with an appropriation of $ 141m of a total of $224.5 m, with a total staff of over 6,700 and in the nature of its work. Few Australians could fail to have been impressed by the research and achievements of the Organisation. I draw particular attention to the successful participation by CSIRO in the invention of InterScan which was recently adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organisation for use as the world's accepted aircraft landing guidance system. While mentioning this accomplishment, I congratulate  Dr Paul  Wild who led the Organisation's InterScan research team, and who last month took up the position of  Chairman  of the CSIRO executive. 
However, as well as the prestigious, routine but essential activities are covered by these estimates. I want to discuss one of these areas before referring to the broader questions of science policy, and to the Government's approach to CSIRO. These estimates for the Department of Science indicate yet a further step in the Government 's program of cutting the activities of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. During the period of the Labor Government, staffing of the Laboratories was built up to 251 by the end of June 1975, of which 126 were professional chemists and microbiologists. During the financial year just finished, the staffing totalled only 237, and these estimates indicate a further cut in staff to 232. Recently, successive annual reports of the Department have made it quite clear that far from being justified, these staff reductions have adversely affected the work of the Laboratories. The 1975-76 annual report stated:  . . . serious organisation deficiencies persist particularly in the management, library and general technical support areas . . . 
That situation existed with staff levels maintained constant. The report continued: 
These deficiencies have strained the manpower resources of some sections of the Branch and limited opportunities for training staff and undertaking the development and validation of techniques necessary for the examination of new materials coming on to the market or found in the environment. 
In other words, the Laboratories were unable to keep their staff up to date with new techniques and new materials for analysis. The following year's annual report, that is 1 976-77 which is the latest available, made the even stronger point that because staff ceilings were so low the Laboratories were not able to meet all the requirements of client departments. Now, this is a particularly serious situation. Commonwealth departments making use of the Branch's laboratories include the departments of Primary Industry, Business and Consumer Affairs, Health, Transport and Construction, as well as CSIRO. Various State departments also use the Laboratories such as the Tasmanian Fisheries Department and several agencies of the New South Wales Government. 
I draw attention to one particular consequence of the Government's attacks on staff levels in analytical services. The Sydney regional laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories undertakes the analysis of samples for the National Health and Medical Research Council market basket survey of food. This is an important study. It examines a variety of foods for a whole range of possible noxious contaminants, including pesticide residues, heavy metals, and other important compounds. The technical staff at the Sydney laboratory was built up under the Whitlam Government from 61 in 1972 to 80 in 1975. Since then it has fallen to 66, according to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  and to perhaps as low as 58 according to advice available to me. The result has been that the service provided by the Laboratories has suffered. The Minister in answer to a question on notice stated: 
Some programs may have fallen below the expectations of client departments. 
Specifically, analysis of the market basket survey samples has taken longer than originally intended. It is no wonder that we were still awaiting publication of the 1975 survey results over two years after it was begun. The Government's decision to cut staffing at the Analytical Laboratories has saved perhaps $500,000 annually, at the cost of, among other things, poorer scrutiny of hazards of public health. That is surely a sorry reflection on the Government's Budget priorities. 
Let me now return to the CSIRO. The Birch inquiry reported on the CSIRO in August 1977 and the Government's response to the report was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Science in May of this year. We should examine the estimates in the light of these statements. Where we do this, we find a number of surprises, if not inconsistencies. To begin with, there is the inquiry's observation that the role of CSIRO has remained biased towards research into problems of rural industries. Since 1950, CSIRO has devoted a relatively constant 4 1 to 45 per cent of its research expenditure to the primary sector, although over that period the contribution of this sector to gross domestic product has declined from about 25 per cent to about 6 per cent. 
There is no doubt that the work of CSIRO in this area has been, and continues to be, necessary, extremely valuable and of high repute. However, the economy has changed. As the Birch report makes clear, there is a pressing need for greater emphasis on research and innovation relevant to Australian manufacturing industry. So, it is surprising in view of this interest of the Birch inquiry and in view of the Government's stated acceptance of the general thrust of the inquiry's conclusions, that the estimates reveal a marginal shift in appropriations in 1978-79 towards agricultural research and simultaneously away from manufacturing industry research. I repeat that I am reflecting on neither the quality, nor the necessity of rural industry research. What I do question is whether the Government is taking seriously the Birch inquiry's study and the technical needs of the economy, and whether staff ceilings imposed on CSIRO have not adversely affected plans for future research expansion. 
There is not enough time to review the CSIRO estimates in detail. But there is one further specific allocation I want to refer to in relation to the Birch report recommendations. The Government's statement on the report indicated that the Government sees real merit in the inquiry's proposal that the National Measurement Laboratory extend its work to areas such as safety, pollution and performance standards. This would be a firm and welcome step in the direction of expanding the activities of CSIRO on behalf of community interests. We might get some factual information on which to decide whether the socalled 'greenies' are right or wrong. We seem to get a lot of very vague evidence at present from both sides in these arguments. However, the estimates indicate a cut in the National Measurement Laboratories' professional staffing from 150 to 136 and a decline in real terms in its funding of approximately 2 per cent. Regardless of the recommendations of the committee advising on the implementation of this proposal of the Birch inquiry, it could not be effectively implemented in the face of cuts in support. Again, cuts in the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories and in the National Measurement Laboratories will prevent the further use of Australia's scientific capabilities on behalf of community well being. 
It is appropriate during this debate to refer to science policy matters more generally, although much of the substance is dealt with by other departments. The first part of the overview report of the Australian Science and Technology Council is a welcome contribution to the literature on Australian science. Its emphasis on industrial research and development, marine sciences and health sciences is sound. However, there is still a need for a review of several major areas of research and for improved organisational arrangements for Australia's scientific efforts. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission and defence science and technology should certainly be subjected to the sort of inquiry which examined the CSIRO. Rather than using ad hoc committees occasionally to ensure that overlap among Australian scientific work is minimised there should be a continuing council of government science establishments as proposed by the Coombs inquiry into government administration. Such a council could also be used to make it easier to terminate or transfer research programs where necessary, without disadvantaging staff. That seems to be one of the reasons that some, programs continue without terribly good and specific reasons. 
Having criticised some aspects of this Department, I want to pay tribute to the other important divisions of the Department of Science, especially the Antarctic Division, the work of which is obviously becoming increasingly important, and the Bureau of Meteorology, which has a continuing vital role to play throughout Australian society. 
It is appropriate that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  is at the table because I want to raise a question concerning the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I am not usually one who criticises the ABC. I know that it has a fairly difficult job to do and that it has been affected by staff and funding cuts. Nevertheless, compared with other news media, maybe it is still better than they are. However, I criticise the ABC very strongly for what I consider to be a highly irresponsible attitude adopted by at least some of the ABC programs during the last five days when dealing with an allegation about the Ku Klux Klan. The ABC staff and the ABC programmers- those who decide the content of ABC programs- should realise when they are dealing with issues like this that overseas the ABC is regarded in some ways as the British Broadcasting Corporation is regarded; as a semiofficial newsagency. I think it is wrong, or highly irresponsible, to make up a story or to broadcast a story knowing, as they must have known, that the story was untrue. Yet the ABC interviewed people and started what was more than a rumour by pretending that it was a fact that a fairly large organisation affiliated with the Ku Klux Klan existed in Australia. On the program  PM  last Friday, 20 October, the item started off with Huw Evans saying: 
The extreme right wing Ku Klux Klan is alive and flourishing in Australia, according to a man claiming to be the Australian leader of the Klan. Graeham Irvine reports from Darwin. 
Then Graeham Irvine came on and said: 
Rumours that the Ku Klux Klan was operating in the Northern Territory have been circulating here for several months. These were finally confirmed here in Darwin yesterday when an Australian man dressed in the traditional white robes and mask of the Klan walked into the ABC television studio under tight security. He only agreed to speak to one reporter and refused to divulge his own whereabouts or any of his group 's activities. 
I omit part of the report, but it continued: 
He claimed that Darwin was the Australian headquarters of the Klan which has affiliations with similar organisations in Britain and America. The group, he said, had 170 members in the Northern Territory and many more throughout Australia, particularly in the universities. 
He then named some of the universities and, at the end of the report, said: 
Both  Mr Everingham  - 
He is Chief Minister in the Northern Territory- and Opposition Leader, John Issacs, refused to take the story seriously and Issacs told me this afternoon that the socalled - 
He then mentioned the Ku Klux Klan man- is none other than the same Territory policeman currently facing police disciplinary charges over a similar hoax at Katherine some months ago. 
That surely should have been the end; but no. The following Monday, on the  AM  program, they kicked it along. Warren Duncan, reporting on  AM,  said: 
According to various reports over the past few days the Ku Klux Clan has now reached out from the south of the United States to claim certain whites in Australia . . . over the weekend Geoff McMullen interviewed, in New York, the three imperial wizards who now head rival factions of the Klan in America . . . 
They kicked the story along as if it were a true story. As a final item, Warren Duncan said: 
We have attempted to trace the Northern Territory leader mentioned by David Duke but so far without success. 
I think it is wrong and highly irresponsible for people to behave in that fashion if they have access to the national radio network. I predict that in 20 years or so Australia will be in significant trouble as far as much of the world is concerned. There will be a significant number of people who will pick on this program, pretend that the story is true and use it against us at some later stage, claiming that there is a Ku Klux Klan in Australia and that the official Australian Broadcasting Commission has confirmed that there are 170 Ku Klux Klanners in the Northern Territory. If people have access to the airwaves, paid for by the Australian taxpayer, they ought to be more responsible in their attitude before they push stories like that. If they do not have enough material to occupy half an hour, perhaps they should finish after 20 minutes and play some music. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Are any figures available for the incidence of visual disorders not associated with diseases of the eye in Australian school children. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these amendments although the Committee will recall that we opposed many clauses of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill when it was before the Committee some two weeks ago. There have been 16 separate amendments to the Bills dealing with health insurance since 1976, when the present Minister assumed responsibility for that portfolio. I do think that the Government should slow down a little and have a look at the legislation to see whether it can divide it into separate pieces of legislation. The Health Act seems to deal with anything from nursing homes to pharmaceutical benefits and many other items. The position is not so bad with the Health Insurance Act. It ought to be possible to separate them so that ordinary individuals can follow what is going on. The situation does illustrate again to my mind the haste with which the Government introduced the latest modification. It did not really look at the Acts in sufficient detail. I am sure that within a short period of time- three months or so at the most- there will need to be more amendments. Some of them will be because of actual alterations in government policy and some of them because the amendments were not completely thought through. I cannot point to any of them. If I could I would. 
However, I believe the position does illustrate the bad aspects of having so many different amendments made. I emphasise that 16 separate amendments have been made. I am not referring to the present case with four amendments to the legislation. On 16 separate occasions a large number of amendments were introduced. They introduced a whole host of changes to the Health Insurance Act, the Health Act and the Health Insurance Commission Act. I appeal to the Minister to slow down a bit, to go for a holiday and then see what happens. The people of Australia may become used to one particular kind of health insurance for just a few months before they have to be exposed again to masses of advertising, masses of public relations work from different funds and different government departments. I suppose the people who are mainly pleased with the amendments are perhaps those public relations firms and newspapers which are able to publish these full-page supplements or advertisements, fully paid for by the funds, advising people on taking out unnecessary insurance cover. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-There is no need for me to tell the Committee that the most important event that has happened since this legislation was passed by the House of Representatives is the New South Wales election. A swing of about 25 per cent to the Labor Party occurred at that State election on 7 October this year compared with the figures at the Federal election at the end of 1977. When this Bill was introduced into and passed by this chamber, proposed new section 8c ( 1 ) read in part:   the Commission shall perform such other functions in relation to health insurance as the Minister may, from time to time, direct by writing signed by him. 
The Government was perfectly happy to have that sort of provision in the legislation because it could see itself having a Minister in charge of this legislation for a considerable time to come. Suddenly, on 7 October, the sky collapsed. The Government started to look in more detail at the kinds of powers that were being given to Government Ministers under the legislation. The health insurance funds put very strong pressure on the Government in the intervening couple of weeks to amend the legislation to make it impossible for a Minister to give directions to the Health Insurance Commission instead of introducing regulations which, of course, have to be passed by both Houses of the Parliament. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party in New South Wales could see before 7 October that they had no chance of gaining control of the State lower House and all their efforts were concentrated on maintaining control of the upper 
House. The is exactly what the Government is hoping for in respect of this legislation so that when it loses control of the lower House and, therefore, government in 1980- hopefully that will occur earlier- it still will have control of the Senate- it has a large majority there at presentand will be able to revoke any direction given by the Minister to the Health Insurance Commission. The reason that the Government wants to be able to do that was clearly stated by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when he said:  . . provisions originally contained in the Bill could, for example, enable any Minister administering the Act from rime to time, to place Medibank Private in a more competitive position to the detriment of other registered organisations . . . 
This shows an obvious caving in by the Government to the private funds, the so-called other registered organisations. I am pleased that the Minister accepts the likelihood of a Labor Government succeeding this Government. Hopefully, directions given by a Minister in a Labor Government will be passed. The fact that they would have to be given by way of regulations, which are required to be laid before the House for IS sitting days, should not prevent reasonable directions being given to the Health Insurance Commission. In principle, the Opposition supports the proposition that Parliament should be supreme and, therefore, will not oppose the Senate 's amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In denying the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia claim that he had approved the rules relating to benefits for the chronically ill, the Minister stated yesterday: 
All I have approved so far are the new HCF contribution rates which were introduced on November 1. 
I ask: How can he approve contribution rates without knowing the cover they provide? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would like to congratulate you on your wise choice. 
I think they have probably got sick of what has happened with health insurance over the last three years. Once again, the incompetence of this Government in health insurance policy formulation has been highlighted during the last week or two in a particularly worrying and insidious manner. The aging, the chronically ill and those with pre-existing conditions, the very people for whom health insurance is most necessary, have been threatened with being dropped by the private funds. What hope does the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  offer these anxious contributors? Yesterday he said: 
We are not sure yet whether we will do it by determination, regulation or legislation- it is possible that I will do it by legislation. 
Today we have been told that this Parliament will rise on 24 November. It will be interesting to see what kind of legislation will be introduced. I, of course, argue that legislation is not necessary to alter the proposals. I will make a couple of points to indicate to the House the urgency which many people consider is necessary to resolve what is happening at the present time because of the utter and complete confusion. As I have emphasised before, the Liberal Party is employing a public relations consultant, John Gaul, to try to get this particular scheme across to the Australian public. The Minister for Health, his Press secretary and private secretary are not given a fair go to try to explain things. It is all run from the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Prime Minister employs 

 Mr Gaul who has not been terribly successful so far in getting the facts across. He does not permit the Minister for Health to appear on television with me. The Minister on instructions from the Prime Minister through  Mr Gaul  had to refuse to appear on  This Day Tonight  and  Monday Conference  with me after indicating earlier that he would. The Victorian Director of Consumer Affairs is quoted in today's  Australian.  He is talking about the present health insurance system. The article states: 
I had to admit I'd simply lost track of Canberra's rethinks', he says. 
But at least I'm in good company. Judging from the distress calls pouring into my office, 99 per cent of people haven't the faintest clue which health fund is covering who, for what, for when or for how long'. 
They were all covered for everything. The article by  Mr Pinkney  continues: 

 Mr Geschke has touched on only one aspect of a medical mess that could itself be causing rebatable nervous illnesses. 
Across Australia, chemists and counter staffs, unable to keep abreast of ever-altering rules, are frequently offering erroneous advice. 
Unlike insurance companies, the baffling benefits funds give premium payers no statement of benefits and exclusions. 
This means that most of us, floundering in a chaos of competitive claims, may end up buying a policy in a poke. 
The health funds, I feel, are keeping their cards too close to their well-stuffed money-chests. 
What this confused continent needs, Norman Geschke believes, is a deep-delving official report that will tell us, simply, what the funds will reimburse us for- and what they won't. 
As subscribers discover almost daily, there are crevasses galore in the cold, pitiless health cover tundra. 
Crevasses whose existence we do not expect until we have fallen sick- and fallen in. 
The  Sunday Telegraph,  one of the papers which continuously supports this Government in its editorial last weekend stated: 
What must be remembered is that the Federal Health Minister,  Mr Hunt,  approved the HCF plans within the past few weeks. He is quite right to be appalled at what was done. But he should have told the HCF he was appalled when he saw their plans. Or didn't  he read them closely enough? 
An advertisement of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia was published over the weekend. It stated quite clearly: 
The  HCF's  new rules from 1 November 1978, which were approved by the Commonwealth Minister for Health  (Mr Ralph Hunt)  last month, preclude the payment of the 'gap' benefit under this table in respect of pre-existing and chronic conditions. This same benefit limitation is also in the rules of other medical benefit funds which operate such tables. 
That, of course, is correct. The HCF news item which was to be released after 1 p.m. on Monday 23 October, which is some time ago, was headed: HCF offers new choices under revised health scheme'. It stated quite clearly that semi-private cover would provide medical benefits of up to 100 per cent of the schedule for medical services except for pre-existing and chronic conditions. I ask honourable members to remember the words and chronic conditions'. Some people have misunderstood the situation. They have said that with chronic conditions the first 50 consultations and 40 diagnostic services will be paid for. But that is not so. Those with pre-existing and chronic conditions are excepted and there is an annual limit of 50 consultations and 40 diagnostic services per person covered. In other words, the HCF rule, released after the Minister agreed to it, is quite clear. 
The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia has done exactly the same thing. It issued a publication last week or the week before. It states quite clearly in item 3, which was published and is handed out to everybody, under the heading Medical Benefits Fund of Australia for Friendly Service', that benefits are not payable in respect of pre-existing and chronic conditions. 
This is November 1978. Surely it has not changed the rules again since then. 
-This is the MBF publication issued last week and sent to me by  Mr Cade. 
HCF has been blamed wrongly as being the only one doing this. It was not the only one doing this. It was the only one that at least had the common decency to tell its contributors what was happening. MBF has not been telling them. MBF tells them in retrospect when they are putting in their claims. The Minister for Health yesterday and in his statement the other day denying the HCF claim said: 
All I have approved so far are the new HCF contribution rates which were introduced on 1 November. 
I challenge the Minister again on this point, as I tried to do yesterday at Question Time: What is involved in approving the contribution rates? Surely when he approves particular contribution rates he also looks at what is being offered for those contribution rates; otherwise it is a quite meaningless exercise. The whole point about approving contribution rates is that he relates them to what the fund is offering and his Department makes a decision as to whether it is a fair offer. If he says that he did not look at what the funds offered in exchange for those contribution rates and he approved the contribution rates, I just do not know what that means. What does it mean to approve contribution rates? 
All the funds, including Medibank Privatenot only HCF and MBF- have been lying in their advertising. They talk about reduced rates. They say that a person can now get 100 per cent cover for less than what he had to pay for 75 per cent cover previously. This is true, superficially; but what they are not saying and what the Minister ought to be emphasising on behalf of his own Government is that 40 per cent of that 100 per cent is being paid for by the taxpayers of Australia. The Australian Government pays 40 per cent. The maximum the fund has to pay for any one service is 60 per cent. In the expensive services the maximum the fund has to pay is $20. The maximum the funds are up for is $20, which in many cases can be as little as 5 per cent or 10 per cent of the actual fee. When they say that they are giving people 100 per cent for less than they previously had to pay for 75 per cent cover the funds are not telling the truth. They are paying a maximum of 60 per cent or $20 per service and they are charging nearly as much as they charged before for 75 per cent. 
The Medical Benefits Fund has increased its charges. As it put it itself, it has increased its charges by $1.85. It is now charging $7.20 for a cover which corresponds to a 60 per cent cover only. For 35 per cent cover- and instead of having to pay up to $300 or $400 for some operations, the maximum it now has to pay is $20- it has reduced its contribution rate by 90c a week. 
Not that I am aware of, on that particular cover; but it is getting a lot of extra money. I challenged the funds last week as to why they were not pointing out that the Minister for Health was at fault, before they started publishing the advertisements over the weekend. The reason why they are not doing that is that there has been an underhand agreement between the funds and the Minister in that the Minister has approved excessively high contribution rates so as to enable the funds to build up reserves again. This is really what is behind the whole problem. Neither the Minister nor the funds are telling the truth. They are slowly starting to fight with one another. I am pleased to see that. It is a case of thieves falling out. The basic reason for it, of course, is that there was an underhand agreement between the funds and the Minister. The Minister was accepting far too high a series of contribution rates for what the funds were actually offering. 
It is quite clear that even HCF, which allegedly has now given an undertaking that it has withdrawn the letter- whatever that may mean- is still not paying out on those chronic conditions. I have had a call from a lady who has been a member of HCF since 1954, which is a fairly long time. During the last two years she developed a chronic condition in her spine. She is supposed to have treatment in a private hospital this month. She rang HCF following the receipt of the letter and she was told that she would not be paid for it. That was fair enough, because the fund said that she was not appropriately covered. The HCF withdrew the letter, allegedly. She rang the fund again yesterday and she was told that she still would not be covered. Apparently all the fund has done is withdrawn the letter . but it still is not paying the patient the extra money. 
It can be forced to now. The Minister knows that. He does not have to agree to the contribution rates to which he has agreed. That is what I am objecting to. He has accepted those contribution rates. 
Let me finish on what I consider to be most important. It is important that people do not overinsure. People are covering themselves unnecessarily. They are taking out 100 per cent cover unnecessarily, not realising that they are covered for everything except $20 anyway. They are not aware that if they go into hospital as standard ward patients they do not have to pay for medical services. The Minister ought to be pointing this out to them. What is John Gaul doing? What is the Minister's publicity machine doing? What is the Government's publicity machine doing? It is co-operating with the funds in getting money out of people unnecessarily. It is important for people to realise that in the vast majority of cases it is unnecessary for them to take out any insurance. It is certainly unnecessary for them to take out any medical insurance and unnecessary for them to take out any hospital insurance unless they want the doctor of their choice at least in theory. I am not arguing on the question of doctor of choice. If people want doctor of choice they have to take out that extra cover and pay for that; but it is unnecessary for them to take out medical insurance. 
I challenge the Minister to deny that in fact he was aware or his Department or the appropriate committee was aware of the fact that the funds would not be paying for chronic patients. Finally, I ask the Minister once more, as I have asked him since February 1976, when he is going to do something about enabling contributors to the Medical Benefits Fund or the Hospitals Contribution Fund and many other large funds in Australia to be represented on the boards of those organisations? In February 1976 he gave an undertaking that he would do something about it. He still has not done anything about it. 
-Before launching into the matter on which I want principally to speak, I would like to make a couple of points in reply to what has been said by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  The honourable member has some legal training and I would draw to his attention the fact that the Remuneration Tribunal's report as I recall it- I obviously do not have it in front of me- does not restrict the use of the franking machines to non-political material. It does restrict the use of postage-paid envelopes to that purpose; it does not do so as far as the franking machines are concerned. Therefore, I assume that as long as anything is done in the interests of the people of Victoria, whom  Senator Evans  represents - 
-Then it is surely within the rules, as laid down by the Remuneration Tribunal to do it. As the honourable member for Robertson points out there can be no greater cause at present in Victoria than that of getting rid of a mob of crooks, which is the position as far as the State Parliament is concerned. The honourable member for Diamond Valley need only read the  Age.  I do not know whether he has represented any of the people concerned in those shady land dealings. The honourable member sitting a couple of seats behind him has taken a fairly definite stand on the question of land deals in Victoria. I do not necessarily support that stand, but the question is that if it is generally accepted that there is a crooked government in Victoria, and if it is in the interests of the people of Victoria- as the people of Ballarat have shown quite recently- to get rid of that government, it should be done. If Michael Shatin can be elected to the seat for which he is standing it will certainly be in the interests of the people of Victoria. If the Remuneration Tribunal had put some restriction on the use of the franking machines, such as that they should not be used for party political purposes- as it has in regard to the pre.stamped envelope- I could see some point in the honourable member's attack, but I certainly cannot on this issue. He has been wrongly briefed by one of his colleagues. 
A few minutes ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  commented on an interjection, or alleged interjection, I made earlier today when the question of abortion clinics for the Australian Capital Territory was mentioned. In fact, just for the record, my interjection was: 'I thought you supported private enterprise'. I was not going to get involved in the arguments about termination of pregnancy, but I do think that it is highly hypocritical for people who generally support private enterprise to make a distinction between the morality of having private abortion clinics and the morality of having public abortion clinics. 
The point I would make is that it is either legal and ethical or it is not. People have differing views on that. Some believe that it is legal; some believe that it is legal and ethical; some believe that it is not legal; and  some  believe that it is not ethical. If it is legal and ethical, those who support private enterprise are being quite hypocritical in opposing the co-called private abortion clinics. If it is not legal and ethical it is wrong whether performed in a private hospital or a public hospital. That is quite clearly the position. If one believes, as do a significant proportion of our population, that the foetus is a human being and that abortion involves the killing of a foetus, it is just as wrong to do it in a public hospital as it is to do it in a private hospital. If one believes, as I do, that potentially dangerous procedures should be performed only in public hospitals one can distinguish between public and private hospital termination of pregnancy. 
The important thing so far as I am concerned is this: The panel is a complete farce, as the honourable member knows, as far as the termination of pregnancy is concerned. The rules under which the panel operates are such that one obviously would not be prepared to say that a baby which was about a week old could be killed if it came under the particular headings under which one may be prepared to permit termination of pregnancy. People are being hypocritical and ought to think about the matter when they argue purely on the basis of private enterprise being involved in termination of pregnancy. As I said earlier, I am opposed to it because I think that it is wrong to do it under the sorts of conditions which generally obtain in private hospitals. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 5 August 1978: 
1 ) How many persons, including dependants, lost their entitlement to pensioner health benefits on each occasion when disability and other pensions were increased during the last 2 years. 
What was the average amount of increase in pension on each occasion. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the findings of  Mr I.  H. Davies which suggest that the incidence of leukemia and allied disorders amongst World War II ex-servicemen who served for long periods in tropical areas is inordinately high and appears to be too great to be attributable to chance. 
If so, will he direct his Department to accept responsibility for the appropriate medical examinations of these exservicemen. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Will he supply figures for claims per contributor for payment of pathology services in 1976-77 by (a) Medibank, (b) Medibank Private, (c) HBA, Victoria, and (d) private funds not allowing bulk-billing. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the estimated increase in staff for Medibank and Medibank Private, made necessary by the proposed abolition of bulk billing for pathology services. 
What is the estimated increased annual cost in administering the proposed changes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) When was spraying of the interior of planes arriving in Australia first introduced. 
What substances are used in this spray. 
) What is the specific aim of spraying. 
What (a) concentration of the substances in the spray and (b) exposure time are considered lethal to the organisms referred to in part ( 3 ). 
Which other countries adopt such faith-healing practices. 
-This is one of those motherhood debates in which I do not normally participate. Everyone is in favour of this legislation. It is difficult to get very critical about such institutions as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or motherhood. Nonetheless, tonight we are dealing with the CSIRO and not with motherhood. 
The CSIRO is the dominant scientific institution in Australia. It is dominant for several reasons. This financial year it will spend over $148m from consolidated revenue and over $16m from industry committees and other diverse sources. By contrast, the Bureau of Meteorology will spend $37.6m and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission $22. Sm. The CSIRO is dominant, also, because it is the major institution employing scientists in Australia. Of a total staff of over 6,700 about 4,600 are professional research scientists or other technical staff. 
Moreover, the CSIRO correctly claims to have a record of success in research and invention. As other honourable members have pointed out, much of the work of the CSIRO and its predecessor, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, has concentrated on solving problems related to Austraiian primary industries. More recently, it has demonstrated the ability to make useful, and often substantial, contributions in other fields. InterScan is the example which immediately springs to everybody's mind as perhaps the most notable product of its research on an international scale. However, it is well to remember that the limited research of CSIRO on simple solar energy devices has led to the valuable development of flat-plate solar collectors for domestic and industrial water heating. 
I have mentioned, briefly, just a couple of CSIRO 's scientific and technological successes. I have done so for a number of reasons. Firstly, I repeat the well-known fact that the Australian technical community has proved itself capable of excellent .and significant achievements. Secondly, the CSIRO is the major Australian case of direct participation by a government agency in the research and development process. Thirdly, there are clear lessons to be learned from both the strengths and the weaknesses of CSIRO 's record. 
Historically, the organisation has made its greatest efforts in agricultural research. I agree with the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  the previous  speaker  in the debate, that because of the difficulties involved as far as Australian agriculture is concerned it is important for the Government to subsidise significantly research in the agricultural area. It is easier for mining companies or manufacturing industry to pay for research which is relevant to the work in which they are engaged. As I have pointed out, CSIRO 's work in the agricultural area has been and continues to be necessary, extremely valuable and of high repute. But changes in the economy since 1950, and predictable future trends demand, as the Birch report makes clear, a greater emphasis on research and innovation relevant to Australian manufacturing industry. 
The effect of CSIRO 's research emphasis has been to bias the whole of Australia's scientific effort in favour of the rural sector. This is a result of its dominance of the nation's research funding and capability. That is what makes a debate about the future of the CSIRO so important. So, at the risk of repetition, I again point out that the 1978-79 Budget Estimates reveal some curious, not to say contradictory, matters relating to policy and practice with respect to CSIRO. The Estimates reveal a marginal shift in appropriations to agricultural research and simultaneously away from manufacturing industry research. 
What has happened is that a rational allocation of scientific resources, based on a sound assessment of the needs of Australia's society and economy, has not been possible in the context of what people regard as a mean pennypinching Budget of which the Government is proud. I am not necessarily arguing for a dramatically expanded CSIRO appropriation. But because it does take time to redirect scientific effort, to reallocate funds, equipment and manpower, some real efforts should be made to support the research fields related to the vital manufacturing sector. To the extent that this has not happened, the Government's sincerity about CSIRO 's future direction is in doubt. 
A further matter raised by any consideration of the past experience of the CSIRO and, indeed, of any scientific research institution is the nature and extent of control over specific research activities. In announcing the Government's response to the Birch inquiry's recommendations on 11 May this year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concurred with the inquiry's view that much of the success of CSIRO in the past can be attributed to a policy of leaving scientific decisions in the hands of scientists. Such a view is far too simplistic. Of course the scientific decisions must be left to the scientists but that usually is not the issue. 
The question which is open to serious discussion is put in a rather more sophisticated way in the Australian national paper to the 1979 United Nations Conference on Science and 
Technology for Development. The following comment was made in the paper: 
A central problem confronting a government research organisation is how to create a climate in which creative and imaginative people can give full expression to their talents. The conditions necessary for this, and the often unforeseeable eventualities of research, do not always sit easily with government bureaucracy. 
A. Prior, in his 1968 study of the influence of the CSIRO on technological change in Australia, was unable to find any specific example of criteria used in the selection of research programs. He concluded that in the final analysis it was scientific excellence that determined their selection. 
There will be an inevitable tension between the requirement that the CSIRO serve various national interests-be they industrial, rural or other interests- and the personal orientations of individual research scientists towards performing work of high standard. But it is a tension which, under the appropriate circumstances, can be resolved creatively. At the broad policy level the executive must be responsive to national needs. The strengthened advisory council mechanism will, I hope, be helpful in this respect. Indeed, it is quite proper that the Minister should be able to exercise considerable authority over the direction of the Organisation's work, provided the Minister is responsible for his intervention. We therefore approve the Government's action in accepting the Birch inquiry's fourth recommendation, that is: 
Ministerial discretion should be preserved in relation to programs . . . when ministerial discretion is employed it should be reported in the Annual Report. 
That is one quite necessary component of a productive, useful and high quality CSIRO. The other component, of course, is a staff operating with high morale and constructive involvement in decision making. The Australian Capital Territory Society for Social Responsibility in Science states: 
The first cause of reduced morale in some parts of the Organisation relates to the relative instability in the flow of the various sources of funds for research. 
As the Society points out, a significant number of positions and projects is supported by industry funds. The reduced flow of these funds, in particular, recently in the wool industry, leads to reduced support for the industries which are experiencing hardship. The Society states: 
Research workers in contributed funds find themselves resentful of others who are on Treasury budgeted projects, and so come to believe that the Executive regards them as second-class citizens' of the Organisation. 
The effects of reductions in industry funds are well illustrated in the latest Budget. At all levels- professional, technical, administrative and ancillary- the numbers of staff that are funded from these sources were cut. Overall, the 1977-78 industry supported staff numbers will be almost halved in 1978-79. What is more, this cut is not made up by the relatively small increases in positions that are funded from Consolidated Revenue. Undeniably, there will be a contraction in the Organisation's total research activity as a result of reductions to its staff ceilings. This contraction will make it particularly difficult to redeploy existing staff and resources into new priority research areas. Expansion of research in various energy areas, ocean sciences and programs related to land and water resourcesidentified by the Australian Science and Technology Council as leading fields for increased future work- will come about only if some redeployment of resources is possible as a result of some unforeseen circumstance, some accident of good luck. 
A second area in which staff morale could well have been improved would have been by the direct representation of staff on the executive of the CSIRO. Such an eventuality was provided for by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  when he was the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs in 1975. Its implementation was prevented by the actions of the then Governor-General on 1 1 November of that year. As my colleague  Senator Button  has pointed out, staff motivation is particularly important in bodies with creative functions. Involvement in management decision making would help motivate the CSIRO 's officers. This is especially the case when there is some feeling amongst its staff that too few scientists will be involved in the executive. Whilst we do not oppose the introduction of a consultative council, we point out that a more direct say by staff in the Organisation's management would be preferable. 
There is a third area in which more concrete action by the Government is desirable. This area is related to staff interchange with other institutions. The second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  in referring to the CSIRO 's contribution to the training of research workers, proposed little more than a continuation of past practices, a business-as-usual approach. Similarly, whilst the Government, by way of the 1 1 May statement of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  agreed that secondment of staff between the CSIRO and universities should be encouraged, there is little to suggest the practical implementation of such a policy. There seems to be a strong possibility that business-as-usual will continue here too. The Birch report states: 
Despite generally expressed opinions of desirability, little seems to have happened in relation to staff interchanges. 
The inquiry identified a number of impediments to staff exchanges, including problems associated with the transferability of superannuation, lack of recognition of work done elsewhere and costs in terms of decreased promotional opportunities. The amendments to the Science and Industry Research Act which we are now considering do nothing to overcome these problems. I emphasise that it is particularly important that with the prospect of limited, if any, further expansion in the CSIRO and the tertiary education sector, there must be opportunities to permit and encourage the frequent infusion of new ideas into the CSIRO. Staff secondments and exchanges obviously are beneficial to the CSIRO and other research organisations from this point of view. It is disappointing that the Government seems to have left this matter at the level of vague good wishes and hopes. Real barriers must be broken down, and we would expect some firm action to do so. 
The Government has left the future of the CSIRO in several other areas undecided or confused. I refer, firstly, to the promise made by the Minister on 1 1 May to consult his colleagues who were responsible for national development, industry and commerce, finance, and productivity on developing methods of undertaking tactical problem-oriented work in support of manufacturing industry. If those discussions have taken place, we have yet to hear of the results, even though it is now over a year since the Birch inquiry reported and over six months since the Government's response was announced. As my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has described in detail, this is the vital area where new initiatives are demanded, both in research programs and administrative arrangements. It is more than timely that this particular promise is honoured. 
Secondly, there is the Government's response to the inquiry's tentative suggestion that research for Australian community interests should not exclude work in support of improved quality of life in areas such as environment, conservation and consumer services. The Bill that is before the House provides that the CSIRO 's functions, as outlined in proposed new section 9, will include furthering the interests of the Austraiian community. We assume that, in addition to the necessary contributions to assisting economic activity, this includes work in areas to which the Birch inquiry referred. The CSIRO is well regarded for what relatively little environmental research it currently performs. But when we seek evidence of an expanded interest in such areas we seek in vain. For example, the Minister's speech refers to the Organisation's national standards activities. The Birch inquiry specifically recommended an extension of this work into safety, pollution and performance standards. Especially those of us who are often worried by the shrill prophecies of gloom from some of the environmentalists, such as the obviously biased Australian Conservation Foundation, would appreciate some scientific and hopefully unbiased comments. Similarly, we would appreciate such comments on the question of hardwood and softwood forests and other issues. However, as I have mentioned on a previous occasion, the Budget prescribes a severe cut in staff and funding in real terms for the National Measurement Laboratory. If the information that has been provided to Senate Estimates Committee D is accurate, the CSIRO virtually has rejected this proposal of the Birch report. 
Finally, I refer to the need that was identified by the inquiry for program evaluation and planning. Apparently concrete action is still being awaited on this matter too. There is still a dearth of detailed cost-benefit studies of government investment in CSIRO research, one which is not overcome by the Birch report. Where the expenditure of public funds in favour of specific firms or industries is involved, this is both necessary and valuable. Such studies which have been conducted in the past, especially in the United States of America and Britain, cast serious doubts on the orthodox belief in the linear model of innovation, that is, that basic research led, through invention and innovation phases, eventually to new products or processes and thence to improved economic and social wellbeing. Whilst this belief is now not universally held, it needs to be emphasised that where technological innovations are sought, it is not sufficient to let the scientists simply have their heads. J. P. Shelton recognised this problem in 1 965 when he wrote: 
When CSIRO research was extended to areas of interest to Australian secondary industry, it was expected that publication of the results in the scientific press would be sufficient to ensure that industry would put these results to practical use. Experience over a number of years showed that mere publication of research results did not lead to their expected application in industry. It is now recognised that the functions of CSIRO include taking active steps to promote the application of its research results in industry, so that the community will receive the maximum benefit. 
I repeat that this statement which is specifically about the CSIRO was made in 1965. It is unfortunate that it has taken so long- over 13 years- to get some firm institutional action to achieve the necessary degree of Organisationindustry co-operation. The community's perception of what is practical to expect and useful to accept from science has matured and become better informed since the last reorganisation of CSIRO 30 years ago. The Birch report is by no means a radical critique of the past performance or present structure of the CSIRO. Moreover, the Government's response has been, in certain areas, less positive than is necessary to reorient the effort of the Organisation in directions more appropriate to future needs. I hope that we shall soon see firmer action along the lines the Opposition has indicated. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Are there any optometrists employed on (a) salaried, (b) sessional and (c) fee for service bases in Community Health Centres in (i) the Australian Capital Territory and (ii) the States. 
-We have just heard the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who is shaking in his little boots following the State election results in New South Wales. I hope that the next time he speaks he will let us know at how many polling booths, if any, the people of his electorate gave the Liberal candidate a majority at the election which was held on 7 October. 
-I am prepared to make an offer that I will resign the seat of Prospect for a by-election if the honourable member for St George will do the same in his seat. I think it is a fair enough challenge. If the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  wants to take up the offer, I am sure that we can find others on our side. 
I should like to raise one other point in reply to the honourable member for St George. He huffs and puffs, as do many members on the Liberal Party and National Country Party side, on the question of Russia and human rights in the Soviet Union. I do not object to their huffing and puffing. What I do object to is their hypocrisy. This House set up the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which in turn set up a sub-committee chaired by  Senator Wheeldon  dealing with human rights in the Soviet Union. I challenge members of the Liberal Party, who of course have adequate representation on that sub-committee, to look at the record of attendance at meetings of the subcommittee. They will see just how frequently not a single member of the Liberal Party or the National Country Party attends meetings of that sub-committee, which was set up following a resolution of this chamber to investigate the question of human rights in the Soviet Union. The sub-committee usually consists of  Senator Wheeldon,  myself,  Senator Sibraa,  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  before he became ill. Those are the four who always make up the sub-committee. 
For practical purposes, the other members of that sub-committee are nonexistent. They do not attend. I do not want to name them. They always have an excuse. The Committee has a very big membership. The honourable member for St George is a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and postures greatly, but he never attends meetings of the sub-committee, although he is entitled to do so. All he is ever concerned about is getting defence contracts for some small concerns in his electorate. He is always after a little bit of extra money so that they will kick in some money for the next election campaign. He is not concerned in the slightest with the question of human rights. Let us be quite clear about this matter. The resolution that was passed last weekend by the Victorian conference of the Australian Labor Party to which the honourable member referred, states quite clearly the Labor Party's support for human rights in all countries and condemns attacks on those human rights, whether they occur in totalitarian regimes of the Right or the Left. 
I am not sure at this stage whether I will have enough time to deal at length with the issue I want to raise. It concerns the very sad case of an ex-serviceman who was a prisoner-of-war of the Japanese for five years and who before that fought in the Middle East. His wife has had a nervous breakdown and he has had heart attacks and is in hospital. He has now received a letter from the Department of Social Security informing him that it is not going to increase his pension because he is in receipt of income in the form of a war pension, which exceeds the level at which he would be entitled to the automatic indexation of his pension for rises in the consumer price index. I think it is a deplorable case, and I would like to give the House full details of it at some later stage. I will not be able to do that tonight because my time has almost expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. If, incorrectly, I have offended people opposite, I withdraw the imputation. I think it is relevant, in making my personal explanation, to point out what happened last night in the context in which it happened. 
This question was raised by the honourable member for St. George  (Mr Neil).  He made generalised allegations that members on this side of the House were not concerned about the question of human rights in the Soviet Union. I will look at the attendance records of the sub-committees which have been incorporated in  Hansard  on a couple of occasions today, but I would be surprised if they did not show that on numerous occasions, if not on the great majority of occasions, Labor Party members had a great majority as regards attendance on that sub-committee, if indeed they were not the only ones who attended. This would not have happened had the Liberal Party and National Country Party members of that subcommittee attended with the same keenness as members of the Labor Party. Let us be clear about that. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Is he able to say what were the dates and places of all (a) above ground and (b) underground nuclear explosions carried out during the last three years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 November 1 978: 
When did he receive proposals from the Pharmacy Guild of Australia regarding a subsidised scheme for lower income families. 
What was his reply. 
-by leave-On the same issue- I cannot become involved with the details because I am on the Sub-Committee and the evidence was heard in camera- the principle as you stated it,  Mr Speaker,  is not complete. Surely the principle is that if we are notified by a foreign government that it will put certain restrictions on the composition of a parliamentary delegation, this Parliament should refuse to send a delegation to that country. Whether a person is elected who would have been excluded or not is irrelevant. The point is that once the Government or the Presiding Officers- whoever decides on parliamentary delegations- know that a government says that A, 8 and C are not entitled to be delegates, this Parliament should have the guts to say that we are not going to send anybody to that country at all. 
There was on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
-The point I would like to place on record is that the Government knew of the Russian proviso or veto in about February of this year. As the Minister pointed out, the Opposition, having some members on the Committee, knew about it in October this year. The delegation went in June or July this year. I leave it to the House to decide whether the Opposition could have made a judgment as to whether the delegation should go or whether the Government should have made that decision. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
In the case of Tasmania, is it intended to hold public hospital services at current levels or are they to be reduced. 
I move: 
That, pursuant to notice, this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 24 November 1978. 
-The Bill we are debating today is in a sense a panic measure introduced into this House following the exposure of the shortcomings of the new scheme which came into being on 1 November. I make it clear at this early stage in the debate that the Opposition does not oppose the legislation. On 1 November the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  gave the following advice to prospective health insurance contributors: 
The best advice I can give is that people should check the offers being made by the funds before signing up. 
Many people around Australia will be wondering why the Minister himself did not take his own advice and check the offers of the funds- the tables in conjunction with the rules- before approving the new rates. We all welcome legislation, however limited, which gives the Minister power to direct the funds not to discriminate against a particular group of contributors. I emphasise, however, that the Minister should not have approved fund tables which cannot conceivably be studied without reference to the rules in the first place. In view of his laxity only a month ago, can we expect the Minister to employ the powers given to him under this new legislation? The legislation would have been unnecessary if the Government had not been in such a hurry to change health insurance arrangements. On 9 November the  Sydney Morning Herald  commented: 
As has happened so many times before, it has failed to think through all the implications of its changes. There is, for instance, an extraordinary conflict of opinion between  Mr Hunt  and the HCF about whether its rules- as distinct from its rates and contribution tables- were approved by him or his Department. It is difficult to reconcile the opposing statements. 
The editorial continues: 
Needless anxiety has been caused to an important group of health fund contributors, and the whole episode has been a very poor advertisement for the Government's ability to handle, with even average competence, the fairly intricate arrangements involved in what is now voluntary health insurance. 
I submit, however, that the ostrich mentality of the Minister was deliberate. In a circular in October to the registered health organisations from his own Department of Health the following stands out: ( 10.8) Minimum control will be exercised by the Department over the variation tables. Control will be limited to the financial viability of the tables and section 78 of the National Health Act will be amended to limit Commonwealth control to the approval of contribution rates in respect of the tables . . . ( 10.9) Organisations will be required to submit rules determined by organisations governing the provision of variations to basic benefits. With the exception of the rates of contribution these will not be subject to approval but will be for information purposes and, as necessary, to access the financial viability of the organisation. 
I say in passing that I cannot see how the financial viability of an organisation can be assessed and its rates of contribution approved without knowledge of what the cover is, what the exclusion clauses are, how many consultations, pathological tests and so on the fund is prepared to pay for. Clearly, the Minister and the Department hope to minimise their supervision of the fund tables and rules. Again, I challenge anyone to deny that it is impossible to study fund rates without reference to the rules. The literature distributed by the funds stated in the summary bylaws that discretionary clauses could be employed. Unfortunately, one cannot expect every contributor to be conversant with the bylaws of a fund. However, one would have expected the Minister or his staff to have read them. 
The Minister took a chance that no one would notice. However, encouraged by this attitude, the funds were determined to capitalise on it, and at least the Hospitals Contribution Fund had the decency to admit its intentions. As the  Sydney Morning Herald  noted, the whole affair quickly became 'a chronic case of confusion'. The Minister reasoned that if he said he had not seen the fund's rules he would not have to accept responsibility- the actions of a bureaucrat seeking to shift responsibility and not those of a responsible Minister.  Mr Turner,  the director of the HCF, responded to the Minister's denial of having seen the rules: 'He has got to be joking. ' 
The Minister persists in saying that the Government's health insurance arrangements are working 'exceptionally smoothly except for this group of people with chronic or pre-existing conditions'. I challenge whether the provisions for bulk billing for the disadvantaged are working smoothly. Around Australia deserving people are being denied bulk billing procedures. A part old age pensioner from Braddon in the 
Australian Capital Territory has thrice been refused bulk billing by her specialist, despite the fact that her total income before deductions is less than one-third of the average wage. At the City Health Clinic she was actually informed that only refugees were disadvantaged and that all students, unemployed and part age pensioners would have to pay. This was at the City Health Clinic run by the Minister's own Department in the Australian Capital Teritory. The disadvantaged under this Government increase every day. We have got the problem at the present time in New South Wales and in other States- the Minister tried to imply that it was only the case in New South Wales when replying the other day to a question from the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)-  that country doctors working in country hospitals are threatening to strike as from 1 December, the end of this month, because of the Minister's indication to the States that he will accept only a 75 per cent modified doctor's fee as part of his cost-sharing with the States. 
That is the indication the Minister gave to the States. 
-Now the Minister says, and I am pleased to hear it, that apparently he will pay whatever the States negotiate. 
So no matter what kind of agreement the States come to with the doctors, apparently now the Federal Government- I am pleased to hear the Minister say it- will pick up 50 per cent of the cost under the cost-sharing agreement. The unfortunate thing about the present situation is that many people in the community have been led to believe that this legislation has now covered them, despite chronic or pre-existing conditions, at the level of hospital or medical benefits for which they insured. Of course, that is not the case, and many will find it out in the near future. Many people are thinking of the Minister's words following public reaction to the now notorious HCF letter, and I quote from the Minister's statement: 
I now put all health funds on notice that the Government could take fresh determinations to withdraw their right to reject contributors with chronic illness to any table. 
For contributors to high insurance tables who are facing high hospital costs for a chronic condition, this legislation is hardly encouraging. We are frequently told by the Government, the private funds and the Australian Medical Association that a greater direct contribution by the patient is necessary to ensure more frugal use of medical services. It is generally implied that our economic system may collapse if the fee or a substantial part of it is not paid at the point of service. The same sources that attack Medibank for contravention of this holy principle, however, are now exhorting the public in favour of indiscriminately taking out private gap medical insurance. Indeed, the young and the healthy have been urged to contribute to 100 per cent medical cover in order to maximise the profits of the funds. It depresses me that the Minister has become part of the clique employed by the funds to get them unnecessary contributions. He did not start off that way, but suddenly for some reason during this controversy he has joined that group. 
My own views on insurance are well known to this House. People tend to over-insure. On 2 November, in a rare moment of clarity, the Minister advised that people should not waste money paying for an insurance cover they may not be entitled to under the rules of their fund. That advice still applies. Those with chronic conditions can still be left with insurance which they bought, in a sense, in a poke. The unfortunate thing is that many people, thinking that the legislation prevents funds reducing benefit levels for chronic or pre-existing conditions, will find this to be the case too late. More than ever, when it is important that Australians understand the health insurance system because of the number of options available, they are confused, insecure, and likely to be coerced into taking out unnecessary insurance. Under this legislation, improper discrimination by a fund against a contributor must now be brought to the Minister's attention. It is a time-consuming process for a worried contributor facing high medical and hospital costs. What does the Minister intend to do with the funds which discriminate against those over 65 years of age and refuse to insure them? Under the new rules on improper discrimination, is the Minister going to insist that the fund insure people over 65 years of age? 
If he does, obviously, the funds will have to increase their contribution rates. What does the Minister intend to do with the Australian Union of Students Friendly Society, which has different rates for people under 31 years of age and those over 31 years of age; and with the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia, whose Selectaplan discriminates against pregnant women, who are not covered by this plan. 
Most importantly, how is the average contributor to be made aware of his rights to appeal to the Minister to direct the funds? Clearly, the pamphlet issued by the Department of Health informing people of the new 1 November arrangements proved a dismal failure, confusing more than it enlightened. It would be interesting to know how much Johnathon Gaul, consultant to the Liberal Party of Australia, was paid for this leaflet. Contributors want to know how they stand and no one is telling them adequately. Under this legislation the medical benefit to the contributor cannot be reduced below 75 per cent of the common fee, but it can still be reduced from 100 per cent to 75 per cent unless the Minister directs otherwise. When people talk about a 75 per cent refund from a health fund all they are really talking about is a maximum of a 35 per cent refund because the Government pays a 40 per cent refund in any case. In cases where the common fee for the service is greater than $33-odd the Government in fact pays more than 40 per cent. So the funds only insure people for less than 35 per cent of the common fee. 
The hospital benefit cannot be reduced below the basic table for contributors but can still be reduced from higher tables. If a contributor's membership has been cancelled, the contributor, believing there to have been improper discrimination, can ask the Minister to direct the fund concerned to reinstate him without loss of entitlement. One important point of the legislation is that the Minister will have the power to prevent discrimination against hospital benefits contributors where the discrimination, on or after 1 May, is related to the question of whether, having regard to a person's medical condition, hospitalisation is necessary, desirable or appropriate. Most honourable members have heard that some of the funds have decided that they will not pay for hospitalisation for their contributors because they do not consider hospitalisation to be 'appropriate', whatever that might mean. Clearly the Minister's powers of discretion will be wide. I hope that the Minister will be willing to use this power. He certainly was dismissive of his power not to approve fund tables prior to 1 November. 
The effectiveness of this legislation will depend to a great extent on contributors knowing their entitlements and what action they can take. I am well aware that the funds are not in the business for their contributors' health. However, on this rare occasion I agree with the comment of Roger Bush- I do not know whether he is still a reverend- which was published in the Sydney  Sun  on 10 November. The article states: 
It might be a far better thing if rather than touting for new business with advertisements the funds set out in laymen's language, exactly how the funds are managed and handled. 
It is doubtful that the funds will openly inform contributors of their new status under this legislation. I suspect, however, that the deliberately created confusion by the funds, the Australian Medical Association and the Government will eventually rebound on them. Indications are that this is happening, with the number of people who apparently are registering with Medibank Private to receive the Government refund only. By making this legislation retrospective, the Government has tried to minimise its embarrassment. Its ineptness in health insurance policy formulation, however, has been brought home clearly to all Australians. I again ask the Minister to implement the legislation for contributor representation on the boards of private funds that he promised in February 1976. These representatives might prove more generous towards their fellow contributors. I also ask the Government to take the advice of the AMA, which is as follows: 
It's time we sat back and had a calmer look at what's going on. 
On 24 May this year, when discussing the paper which I think was prepared by  Dr Sax,  the Minister said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the Health Insurance system. 
The new arrangements were not just premature; they were stillborn and cannot be resuscitated by these sorts of ad hoc adjustments. It is no longer a joke that people should receive rebates for nervous disorders brought on by trying to understand the new arrangements of 1 November. Perhaps Government members, especially the Minister, also require such a rebate. No significant new data has become available since 24 May. Certainly none came to the notice of the Minister between 24 May, when he said what he did, and IS or 16 August, when the changes were introduced. What has been happening is quite ridiculous. I hope that the Minister and the Government will agree to the motion which I will move at the end of the second reading debate, which will seek to refer this legislation to a legislation committee. Legislation committees have been set up for this purpose. 
Already masses of amendments have been made to die National Health Act. If I remember correctly, part of the legislation with which we are now dealing relates to one section of that Act, section 73, and seeks to insert a new section, section 73BFB. Honourable members wil know just how many amendments this implies. We started off with section 73a, then we added section 73b and have gone right down to section 73z. Then, after section 73B, we inserted  73BA,  73BB et cetera. We got down to section  73BF,  then we inserted section  73bfa,  and now we are inserting section  73BFB.  I will check this before I move my motion seeking to refer this Bill to a legislation committee, but of the order of a dozen amendments have been made to that section of the Act since this Government came into power. Since 1976 about a dozen amendments have been made to a single section of the National Health Act. 
I hope that the Minister, in his calmer and less political moments, will agree with me that this is not the way to run legislation. The National Health Act- this Bill seeks to amend it, so I will refer to it in general- ought to be amended significantly. Probably it ought to be divided into a number of parts, each dealing with health insurance, nursing homes, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefits, et cetera. It is quite ridiculous to have all those areas covered by one Act, to have a huge Act and to have masses of amendments to it. When one asks for a copy of the Act from the Table Office one is never quite sure whether all the amendments have been included in the copy one receives or what we are really doing with the Act that is in force at any particular time. 
I make a couple of additional points which deal with the National Health Act but do not relate specifically to the amendments contained in this Bill, although maybe they should have been included in the Bill. One point is that at least some of the funds are transferring contributors to a higher scale and are getting the contributors' paymasters to make the transfer without the agreement of the contributors. In fact, the contributor has to contract out of the transfer. I do not think that that is fair. I think that it should be quite clearly stated that if there is to be a transfer to any sort of higher scale the contributor ought to have to contract in rather than contract out. 
Another point is that it has been brought to my attention that the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd has refused payment of a refund under one of the 'extra' tables on an account because the account was paid after the person concerned had become unfinancial with the fund. The actual service was rendered when the person was a financial member of the fund. I would certainly argue that that person is entitled to a refund because at the time the service was givenwhen the debt was incurred- the person was financial with the Medical Benefits Fund. That person has now been refused a refund because the bill concerned was not paid until 2 
November, which was two days after the cover had expired. It is quite ridiculous that this should be done. 
Finally, I re-emphasise a point that might well have saved the Minister a lot of embarrassment that he suffered because of the procedures adopted by the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. I emphasise again that that was not the only fund which introduced the limits to which we now refer as 'unfair discrimination'. The Minister promised me in February 1976, soon after he became Minister for Health, that he would look at the possibility- obviously with the hope that he would be able to do something about it- of bringing contributor representatives on to the boards of these funds such as the Medical Benefits Fund in New South Wales, the Hospitals Contribution Fund in New South Wales and a number of other funds. He made that promise. I understand that he set up an interdepartmental committee to deal with the matter. Nothing has happened. The contributors to those funds have no representation on their boards. I noted that the Hospital Benefits Association in Victoria has at least a small number of contributor representatives on the board. That is a step in the right direction. I appeal to the Minister to look at the matter again. Maybe that rather heartless letter from the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia would not have been sent out if some contributor representatives had been sitting on that board. I realise that it would not have altered the net result. Maybe the situation would have been worse. Perhaps the attention of the Minister might not have been drawn to what was going on. At least it could have been done in a more genteel or gentle manner as far as the contributors are concerned. 
As I said earlier, the Opposition is not opposing the legislation. We believe that the Minister ought to have the powers which are being given to him under this amending legislation. We will certainly chase up the Minister if he does not use the powers given to him under this amending legislation. I make a final appeal to him to try to persuade the Whip or the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to allow this legislation to go before a Legislation Committee so that some intelligent cross-examination of the officers of the Department can be conducted in order to find out just exactly what it means. In order to save discussion during the Committee stage I wish to draw the attention of the Minister to clause 3. It reads: 
. 'improper discrimination' means a discrimination that is related to all or any of the following matters: 
the suffering by a person from a chronic disease, illness or other medical condition or from a disease, illness or medical condition of a particular kind. 
Does that mean that the funds will not be able to exclude those people if the Minister thinks they should not be excluded? After all, they are defined as being people against whom improper discrimination is practised. Does it mean that the funds will not be able to contract out, for example, for cosmetic surgery, for terminations of pregnancies and for all kinds of things because they are obviously medical conditions, diseases or illnesses of a particular kind? When the Minister replies at the end of the second reading debate he might give us some response to that matter. 
All kinds. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 November. 
1 ) Has the Minister received representations on behalf of 80 patients of the Baillie Psychiatric Hospital at Toowoomba, Qld, who have had their pensions terminated due to being moved from pensionable wards to nonpensionable wards. 
) What has been the saving consequent upon this action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 November 1978. 
1 ) How many men are at present in receipt of a Supporting Parents Benefit 
Do female divorcees or widows in corresponding circumstances receive a pension. 
Does this pension entitle them to many fringe benefits, subject to a means test 
Do males in receipt of Supporting Parents Benefit receive a concession card, subject to a means test 
What benefits are available to those in possession of this card. 
If there is discrimination, what are the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Will he provide all the relevant information that is not confidential referred to in the answer to question No. 2400  (Hansard,  17 November 1978, page 3066), concerning the dates and places of all above ground and underground nuclear explosions carried out during the last three years. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, with notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to an article on page 24 of the  Australian CP.  of July 1978 which claims that Medibank computer records can be used by the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation? 
If so, is there any substance in the claim? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
Is the increase in antibiotic-resistant pathogens causing concern. 
What plans does the Government have for dealing with this problem. 
Is the use of antibiotics as animal feed additives a contributing factor. 
If so, will he discuss their use with the Minister for Primary Industry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say which countries are known to impose (a) radio and (b) television receivers licence charges. 
2 ) If so, what are the charges in each case. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that civilian employment in Australia stood at 4,806,500 on 30 June 1974 and at 4,714,500 on 30 June 1 978, a decrease of 92,000. 
Is he able to say whether civilian employment in the United States of America stood at 82,261,000 on 30 June 1974 and at 95,852,000 on 30 June 1978, an increase of 13,591,000. 
3 ) If so, what is his explanation for this. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What payments were made to  Mr Jonathon  Gaul and businesses operated by him during (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77 and (c) 1977-78. 
For what purposes were the payments made. 
Have payments been made or are payments to be made during 1978-79. 
What are the purposes of the payments. 
Are any debts outstanding in relation to sums paid during the period 1 July 1975 to date. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House calls on the Government to immediately reintroduce the six-monthly indexation of social security and repatriation benefits. 
I move: 
That this House calls on the Government to immediately reintroduce six-monthly indexation of social security and repatriation benefits. 
I do not think that all that much needs to be said. We debated this matter in October last year. Most of the arguments that apply now applied then. However, I will put later in my speech one argument which arises out of the consumer price index for the December quarter. The pensioners and social security beneficiaries of Australia must by now be convinced that talk is indeed cheap. Prior to the 1975 and 1977 elections we heard a great deal from the Liberal Party and in particular from its leader that the Government would continue indexing pensions on a sixmonthly basis. We are again witnessing cheap talk from a number of Liberal back benchers who have been making noises and protesting against the recent changes which have made indexation annual rather than six-monthly. It is interesting that they protested against these changes but did not vote against them when they were debated in the House on 12 October. Not surprisingly our pensioners cannot afford this cheap rhetoric: They want action, not grandstanding. 
On 12 October last year this House made the pretence of debating amendments to the Repatriation and Social Security Acts. The Bills were steamrolled through the House and the rational debate demanded by the complex amendments was virtually gagged. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  did not vote against the change to annual indexation: We on this side of the House did vote against these changes. Despite the importance of these amendments to the living standards of hundreds of thousands of Australians the so-called rebels did not join us. Instead of rebelling they slunk out of the Chamber. The hollow grandstanding of the honourable members for Franklin, Denison and Isaacs- I repeat those names- has become even more embarrassing now that the honourable member for Franklin has decided- if this is the word- not even to introduce a Bill seeking to reintroduce half-yearly indexation. One might be less cynical had these members actually voted against those clauses of the Bill proposing the changes to which they objected. This could have been done without opposing the entire Bill. The rest of the Liberal and National Country Party members strongly supported the reduction in pensions as their contribution to the fight against inflation. 
The honourable member for Franklin said that he intended to present a Bill seeking to reintroduce six-monthly indexation of pensions. He has not done so. I remember his words of last October when he said that it would be easy to cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. He said: 'There is nothing to it'. However, he decided that pensioners, veterans and the unemployed are not really important enough for such a gesture. Let me refer to an interview in the  Australian  which is one of many that he has given during the last few weeks. The article in the  Australian,  while referring to the honourable member for Franklin, states: 
. as he looked around for support, he could see and smell fear in members who, he knew, thought the same way as him but had not the stomach to show it. 
A direct quote from the honourable member then appears: 
I spoke to some of them and they visibly trembled . . . They are so scared of the Prime Minister and what he might do to them '. 
The interview continues: 
As some of us walked out in protest, one member was leaving the Chamber to go to the lavatory. When he realised that his action could have been misconstrued as part of ours he got frightened.' 
The honourable member went to  Mr Fraser  to tell him quite clearly that he had absolutely nothing to do with them; that he was just going to the toilet. Apparently members on the Government side have to get permission to go to the lavatory. So much for the honourable member for Franklin! 
The Government abolished six-monthly indexation to save $4m on war pensions and $27m on social security benefits. Yet it is spending close to $30m on new VIP aircraft and associated work to make the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) more comfortable. The Government is spending more on one individual than it is saving by the abolition of half-yearly indexation. On the Prime Minister's own definition he has reintroduced politics into pensions. Making political footballs out of the two million men, women and children directly or indirectly dependent upon social security payments is less than cheap. It is an expression of disgust by the Government for those people who cannot afford the luxury of family trusts. Talk is obviously the cheapest electoral gimmick. 
The reintroduction of six-monthly indexation for these beneficiaries is all the more urgent. Here I come to the point I made earlier- the change since 12 October. This may persuade some honourable members opposite to change their minds. The reintroduction of six-monthly indexation is all the more urgent given the recent high increase in the CPI and the fact that civilian and repatriation pensioners did not benefit by the 1.5 per cent reduction in the CPI due to changes in health insurance arrangements introduced on 1 November last year. Pensioners did not have to take out private insurance or pay a levy before 1 November last year. Therefore they did not benefit from the 1.5 per cent reduction in the consumer price index due to the health insurance changes. The net result of that, of course, is that the loss of comparative purchasing power to the pensioner is not the 2.3 per cent of the CPI increase, but 3.8 per cent, in a single quarter. For the single pensioner this amounts to over $2 a week and in the case of a married couple it amounts to $3.40 a week for just one quarter- the December quarter. Yet they will not be compensated for this increase until November 1979, by which time they will of course be much worse off because there will have been other increases in the cost of living. 
The increases of the December quarter were not taken into account on 15 November 1978. On 15 November 1978 a pensioner couple was already $3.40 worse off but they will not be compensated for this until the first pension payment in November 1979, nearly 12 months later. But as yet they have not been compensated for the previous quarter, the September quarter, because the September quarter was not included in the updating of their pension in November 1978. They were only compensated until the June quarter of 1978 so that by the time they get their next increase, that is, in November 1979, 16 months will have elapsed in which there have been very significant increases in their cost of living. 
We gave them six-monthly indexation. We gave it to them every time but this Government did not give it to them. This is a loss which cannot be and should not be sustained by the most vulnerable sections of our community. Why should the brunt of the Prime Minister's remedies for inflation be borne by the most vulnerable to inflation's effects? I hope that constituents around Australia remember the promises contained in the 1975 and 1977 Liberal Party election leaflets. In 1976 the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  who was at that time Minister for Repatriation, had this to say on behalf of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle): 
The Government has given a commitment to protect social security pensions from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting pension levels each six months according to movements in the CPI. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  understandably concerned about retaining his electorate, said: 
 We are keeping meticulously to the promise to continue adjusting the benefit every six months. 
Where was the honourable member for St George on 12 October last year? How will he be voting tonight? But the best quotation is that from the Prime Minister himself. On 9 September 1974, when of course he was still in Opposition, he suggested that as the number of jobless rose so should unemployment benefits. He argued that the Government should pay the unemployed a minimum wage- at the present time this would amount to $120 a week- if the number of unemployed reached 250,000. It has now reached double that figure- 500,000. However, the Prime Minister now does not even intend to provide half-yearly indexation of the benefits of the aged, the unemployed or the veterans. Anyone who votes against this motion today is voting to place and to keep many decent Australian citizens below the poverty line, the line defined as that level of income necessary for the basic requirement for food and shelter. 
-The honourable member for Barton says 'Rubbish! '. He does not even understand how the indexation of pensions works at present. It is depressing that he is a member of this House and I sincerely hope that he will not be one for very much longer. When this Government reintroduced the means test for pensioners over the age of 70 years - 
It was the means test. Indexation does not apply at all. 
It does not apply at all for those whose income exceeds the means test. 
-No. There is obviously a means test. It is an income test which is based on the means of the people who are in receipt of these benefits. They do not receive any sixmonthly indexation of their pensions. I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  has admitted that he opposes six-monthly indexation of pensions. 
Because of the way in which the honourable member voted previously, because of the way in which he is going to vote tonight and because of the interjections he has just made. In less than an hour the honourable member will have a chance to show us how he feels about the matter. He will probably go away to the lavatory. That would be the sort of thing that he would do. He is probably the one who went to the lavatory last time so he could have a bob each way. 
-A bob each way. He could then tell the Prime Minister that he was in the lavatory at the time the vote was counted and he could tell the pensioners in his electorate that he abstained from voting. I would not be surprised if he were back in the lavatory again tonight. 
Social security beneficiaries are slipping further and further below the poverty line. Where will this assault on Australian living standards end? The replacement of half-yearly indexation with annual indexation has been joined by other cutbacks such as the reintroduction of the means test for aged pensioners over 70. Pensioners in particular cannot sustain any further loss in purchasing power. Those who have no extra income and who are in rented accommodation have had no increase in supplementary assistance since 1975. 
With regard to our veterans, this Government is also full of promises, but empty of responsibility. The Opposition is occasionally referred to as anti-defence or anti-returned soldier. But let us look at the facts. Between 1972 and 1975 more benefits were granted to our returned servicemen and women than for many years previously. The story over the last two years has proved a terrible shock to many veterans who had a tendency to support the other side of politics- that of honourable members opposite. Even the family allowance has not been indexed. Making an allowance for child endowment and for the tax rebate which Labor introduced in 1975 and which were effective from the beginning of that financial year, in real terms, a family is worse off now as against 1975 by between $2.16 a week in the case of a family with one dependent child and $7.46 a week in the case of a family with six dependent children. I put it to the House that it is unfair and cruel to raise the hopes of the pensioners and other social security and repatriation beneficiaries in this country. If enough Government members are concerned about this injustice, then let them clearly indicate their concern in the vote on this motion. If they do not do so, then pensioners will know that only a change of government will restore the value of their pensions. 
Whatever the views of Government members, as members of this House, may be- they may believe that by abolishing six-monthly indexation they are carrying out a great fight against inflation and are doing a great thing for this country, even though somebody else has to bear the burden- I put one proposition to them. It was told to the Senate this afternoon by the Minister for Social Security and it has been claimed in Press reports that it was told to Government members by the Prime Minister at their joint party meeting, that no matter what this House decides on this particular matter, the Government will not go ahead with six-monthly indexation, that no money will be provided. As one of those parliamentarians who at least in theory believe that we should have some say in the running of this country, I find it extremely depressing that people, no matter what their basic view on this issue, can accept that proposition from their Prime Minister or from their Cabinet. Government supporters talk a lot about their membership of a free party and being free to do all sorts of thing, but they cannot even make decisions in their party room. They are told by their Prime Minister that no matter what their decision is, the money will not be made available. So it does not matter what they believe, it does not matter what decision they come to, the Prime Minister has made up his mind that there is not going to be any money made available and they can pass as many resolutions as they like. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  often talks about the privileges of parliamentarians. Surely he must have a view on this proposition. Surely he believes that there ought to be some responsibility on the part of members of this House and of members of the Senate, if they pass a motion indicating to the Government that certain things should or should not be done, to ensure that the Government is obliged to try to carry out those wishes as far as possible. But to pre-empt the proposition in the first instance by saying that no matter what this House decides, no matter what the Government party meeting decides, no matter what the Senate decides, the Government will not give in on this issue, seems to me to be a complete contravention and contradiction of the responsibility of Cabinet to the two Houses of Parliament. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this debate will bring a moment of truth for some members of this House. The pensions indexation provision of last year's Budget was a direct calculated fraud. It meant reneging on a promise made less than a year earlier. It meant a deliberate slashing of the living standards of those Australians whose living standards were already lowest. It meant the sacrifice of principle for the sake of political expediency. It was one of the most cynical measures in a Budget notable for its contempt of the people who had so recently trusted this Government to the point of voting for it. All these things were known to the members of the Government parties; yet they would do nothing about them. Until recently they have been united in the silence of conspirators- more afraid of their dictatorial leader than of the retribution of their constituents. Now, some of them profess a deep concern for the pensioners who have been robbed and cheated by the abolition of halfyearly adjustments. Here is their chance to demonstrate their good faith. How, in conscience, could any member of this House oppose what we are suggesting? How could any member here deny that the Government's measure has made life even harsher for hundreds of thousands of Australia's least privileged citizens? The realities are undeniable. They challenge the conscience of every member and we shall soon see how that challenge is met. I hope no member of this House sentences himself to leave the chamber carrying the brand of a hypocrite. 
-I preface my question to the Minister for Administrative Services by drawing his attention to page 24 of what is described as the final report  of  the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation, tabled in Parliament yesterday, at which the  Chairman, Mr Harry  M. Miller, states: 
The Silver Jubilee Organisation raised in excess of $100,000 for the Queen's Silver Jubilee appeal for young Australians. 
Has this money in fact been paid to the jubilee appeal? Indeed, is the appeal fund in fact pressing for payment? What other funds were raised by the activities mentioned in the report? Will the Minister ascertain from  Mr Miller  what has been done with such moneys? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-As reported at page 213 of yesterday's  Hansard,  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said: 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said- 
Then he alleged certain things which are put in inverted commas, implying I had actually said them. I am sure that if the Minister looks at them he will see that he did not mean that I used those particular words. I quote the words: 
I will gain a political advantage if I move a motion tonight. I will embarrass a couple of members on the other side of the House. 
I am sure the Minister did not suggest I used those particular words, though he may have implied that I had that view. There are similar items which I shall not draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker.  In the same paragraph the Minister said: 
I trust no member of the House and no member of the Labor Party forgets that it was the ALP which voted against full automatic indexation of pensions. 
In fact,  Hansard  of 14 October 1976, at page 1860, shows that this amendment to the motion for the second reading of a social services Bill was moved by the honourable member for Oxley (MrHayden): 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: while not opposing the Bill, the House deplores the inequities which arise from the Government 's failure to- 
carry out its election promise to legislate for immediate and automatic increases in pensions and benefits in line with the Consumer Price Index; 
index dependants' allowances to meet increases in the cost of living; 
increase the supplementary benefit; 
provide for the automatic adjustment of unemployment and sickness benefits for those under 18 years of age, and, 
protect the incomes of those pensioners adversely affected by provisions in this legislation'. 
No vote was taken on the amendment or on the Bill which introduced automatic indexation rather than six-monthly indexation of pensions. In no possible way could one suggest that the ALP voted against the Bill as introduced. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that war compensation pensions be non-taxable and inalienable. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that Australian repatriation and allied rights be made available to British and allied exservicemen who are not Australian citizens resident in Australia. 
If so, what would be the cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978. 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that personnel having Defence Service Homes dwellings be permitted to transfer their loan to a replacement dwelling. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that Defence Service loans be made available to purchasers of flats, home units and town houses in all States. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the Repatriation Boards, Commissions and Tribunals give reasons for refusing applications, where this is not already done. 
If so, what would be the cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that automatic acceptance be given for repatriation purposes for cancer, heart disease and mental conditions similar to that formerly given for tuberculosis. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1 978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the means test be abolished as far as it affects war compensation, including the service pension. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1 978:  (  ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that his department make arrangements to pay pensions fortnightly into bank accounts, including savings bank accounts, of aged and infirm pensioners, when requested to do so. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that dependants' allowances be increased and maintained at their highest previous relativity to the 100 per cent pension. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that repatriation fringe benefits be maintained and eligibility be indexed by reference to the Consumer Price Index. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the general rate pension be made not less than 50 per cent of the minimum wage and maintained at that level. 
) If so, what would be the cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the special rate pension be made not less than the Federal minimum wage, and maintained at that level. 
If so, what would be the cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the intermediate rate pension be made not less than 75 per cent of the minimum wage and maintained at that level. 
If so, what would be the cost of this proposal. 
-I do not very often come into debates on foreign affairs even though I have been a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for about five or six years. I suppose that to some extent I am more conscious of the importance of foreign affairs as I came to this country from Europe when much of Europe was under a number of dictatorships including the regimes of Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin. I am sorry to have to say that I find the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  rather shallow. As somebody said before, superficially he is very deep, or profound, but deep down he is very superficial. 
I wish to raise two basic points. Firstly, I am a pessimist about the long-term geo-political situation of Australia. I do not think that we will be allowed by the people of Asia to continue to enjoy a much higher standard of living than they do. This Government has no long-term policies at all. It is talking about calling together the United Nations Security Council, doing this and doing that, but these proposals do not represent long-term policies as far as Australia 's position in this region of the world is concerned. I offer no solution but I certainly would encourage a much greater sense of urgency on the part of the Australian Government. Unless the pressures in the so-called Third World change very dramatically I predict that many countries will start to concentrate on us when South Africa and Israel have been eliminated. We would all agree and argue that we are completely different from South Africa. We obviously are. We do not suppress the native population- our Aborigines. So too Israel is different. Yet the perception at the United Nations of Australia and those countries is very similar. I am sure that those honourable members who have moved in foreign affairs circles will be aware of the fact that the perception of this country by many other countries is one of Australia as a very rich country, but a very unco-operative country to their concerns. We are not prepared to take their people; we are not prepared to take many of their products. I am not arguing that we should take either their people or their products. All that I am saying is that in the long run these people will use such attitudes against us. The people in those countries who may not be able to handle the economic problems that exist in their countries will try to take those problems off the minds of their people by criticising us and reaching possibly some point of confrontation with us. I think the most important need in the foreign affairs policy of this country is to look at what is likely to be the position in 10 or 20 years time and to determine just how many friends we will have and how many people will be extremely critical of us to the extent of being hostile. 
The second basic point I make is that to my mind all people prefer democratic forms of government. I completely dissociate myself from those who claim that the underdeveloped countries are happy under dictatorships. This is not true. They just have not been given the chance. When, very rarely, they are given a chance they opt for freedom. The most obvious example during the last few years has been the Republic of India. India very clearly indicated- and I think many people in this country were surprised at how clearly it indicated- that it would opt for a democracy when it was given a chance and that it was concerned not only with economic advantages. I suggest that the same would happen in the three countries in Indo-China, in China, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Taiwan, Eastern Europe, the Philippines and in many other countries of South America, Africa and the Middle East. Some of these countries describe themselves as left wing dictatorships and some of them as right wing dictatorships. Many of them claim not to be dictatorships, but there is no real difference between them. As far as I am concerned they are dictatorships. In many cases they are military dictatorships or bureaucracies. As people who have talked about the Soviet Union have said, we are dealing not with the dictatorship of the proletariat but with the dictatorship of the secretariat. There is a dictatorship in the Soviet Union and there is a dictatorship in many other countries. They work themselves up to some extent about ideology but there is no basic difference as far as their ruling circles are concerned. They are scared of their own people. 
We must encourage democracy in all countries. I used to believe that wars were caused only by the failure of capitalism. This is obviously not true. It is quite obvious that there are now wars between countries which clearly claim to be socialist countries. I would not consider them to be socialist countries, but they are certainly not capitalist countries. Democracy by itself may not prevent war, but to put it at the most pessimistic level, it is much preferable to be defeated and taken over by a democracy than to be defeated and taken over by a dictatorship. Therefore, at the very least, I think it is in Australia's immediate interest to support democracy and democracies wherever they exist. People talk about even-handedness. I do not claim to be even-handed. Wherever there is a dispute between democratic and undemocratic forces, I shall always support the former- the democratic forces. In some cases the difference may be only marginal such as in the disputes between the Soviet Union and China or between Chile and Argentina. But often it is a clear cut difference between the two countries. There is a clear-cut difference that one is obviously more democratic than the other. 
Most of my remarks to this point have been fairly apolitical in the Australian sense of that word. But I do criticise this Government- the socalled Fraser Government- for its hypocrisy. It talks about supporting democracy. It talks about favouring democracy. I suggest that honourable members should refresh their memory by referring to a question I posed in the House of Representatives on 21 November 1978, part of it being reprinted on page 3088 of  Hansard.  I raised the point that the Soviet Union indicated to this country last year that it would invite a parliamentary delegation to visit that country only on the basis that no members of the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Sub-committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union would be on that delegation. This Government to its eternal shame agreed to send to the Soviet Union a delegation on the basis that the Soviet Union had decided that certain persons in this Parliament were persona non grata. This was a terrible decision on the part of this Government. 
I am not one of those people who say that aid should not be cancelled in the case of aggressive countries or countries behaving in an extremely anti-democratic manner. Decisions taken by the democratic countries to cancel foreign aid or not to send teams to the Olympic Games may well be correct. But they are worth while only if all the countries adhere to them. If they do not, the action is pointless. For example, there would be no point in Australia deciding to boycott the Olympic Games to be held in the Soviet Union. The Olympic Games would be held in the Soviet Union even if Australia decided not to participate. The Soviet Union would be able to say that a campaign was being conducted by countries opposed to the holding of the Games there. However, 95 per cent to 98 per cent of countries may participate in the Games. This would only be to the advantage of the Soviet Union. 
I believe that it should be the aim of this Government to try to encourage other democratic countries to act together in concert if we decide, as I think we have all decided to a large extent, that we are not prepared to support military intervention to defend democracy. Certainly, the United States of America seems to have decided on that course. It was the only democratic country which had the power to do anything about the situation. How else can we deal with undemocratic countries which are agressive? How can we deal with Cuba when it is interfering in Africa and sending its mercenary forces into Africa? How can we deal with the rulers in Kampuchea when they are killing their own people? How can we deal with Vietnam when it invades Kampuchea and Laos and with a number of other countries which behave in that way? The only way in which the democratic countries, the so-called Western European countries, which have a fair amount of money and economic clout, can deal with these undemocratic countries is to use economic sanctions. They should be used against all the undemocratic countries, whether they be Rhodesia, South Africa, or the other countries I have mentioned. 
I would like to make this point in relation to the conflict in South East Asia: It is utter hypocrisy for the Soviet Union to criticise China or the United States for interfering in other countries. The Soviet Union has occupied- in some cases continually- nearly all of Eastern Europe. In some cases- for example, the Baltic States- it has actually incorporated the countries into the Soviet Union. In other cases, Soviet troops occupy those countries. With its Cuban mercenaries fighting in much of Africa, the Soviet Union has a hide to talk about interference in other countries. 
I recommend to honourable members an article written by  Mr Kim  Beazley, a former member of this House, which appeared in today's  Sydney Morning Herald.  Time does not permit me to quote from it. As an intensely political person, I appeal to honourable members not to try to score superficial political points, but to try to devote some time to looking ahead about 10 to 20 years to decide whether they would be optimistic about Australia's position at that time in a geographical sense. I am sure that many of the more rational honourable members will reach my rather pessimistic conclusions. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the means test for Defence Service Pensioners be progressively eliminated at an age 5 years less than that at which it is eliminated for age pensioners. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government received a request from the Australian Services Council that the Defence Service Homes Act and/or other relevant legislation be amended to widen the eligibility for a Defence Service home to all ex-servicewomen. 
If so, what would be the estimated cost of this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Is his Department looking into the introduction of a system of prescription forms with serialised numbers and distinctive colours to prevent forgeries; if so, when will a decision be made. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has he had a submission from  Mr M.  Brumer B.App.Sc. L.O.Sc, an optometrist, regarding his claim that myopia is being treated incorrectly and dangerously. 
If so, will he appoint a small committee of unbiased experts to look at  Mr Brumer  's claims and report whether there should be further examination of the claims. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Is it a fact that the number of civilian employees in Australia was (a) 4,535,800 in December 1972, (b) 4,738,100 in November 1975 and (c) 4,707,900 in August 1978. 
If so, is he able to say why there was an increase of 202,300 jobs from 1972 to 1975, but a decrease of 30,200 jobs from November 1975 to August 1978. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
Did the Prime Minister in his election policy in November 1977 promise to (a) increase the domiciliary nursing care benefit and (b) reduce the age for eligibility. 
-Has the Minister for Health appointed  Mr Justice  Ludeke to conduct an inquiry into medical fees and decided that the proceedings will be held in private? In view of the fact that national wage case hearings before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are held in public, why is that not to be the case in relation to the proposed inquiry into medical fees, to enable interested parties and the general public to make submissions rebutting the proposed Government-Australian Medical Association sweetheart agreement? 
-Today we are debating the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1979. 1 would like to raise a point right at the beginning and that is that this Bill was introduced into this chamber only last Thursday evening and it is being debated today, only six days later. I think we have been given too little time to consider quite a major change that is to take place in the method of dealing with appeals in repatriation matters in a very involved Act. It has been difficult for us to get hold of all the appropriate people, to talk to the Returned Services League, to other servicemen's organisations and to persons who act for veterans who are appealing both on the question of entitlement and on the question of assessment. I am not criticising the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  because I suppose the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  makes those decisions. 
I thank the Minister for his co-operation through his Department in helping me to clear up some points in the proposed amendments. But we are dealing with a very involved Act. In the Bill proposed new sections are numbered up to 107VZZL. It is not easy. When I asked the Bills and Papers Office to give me the up-to-date legislation- I would not consider myself an expert on it- I realised by just looking at it that it was not the latest Act and that amendments were missing from the so-called up-to-date legislation. I hope that at some stage the Minister will be able to persuade the Parliamentary Counsel to give some priority to consolidating this Act and renumbering it, et cetera. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide (a) that in assessment cases, the Repatriation Review Tribunal shall have power to receive, and to make determinations upon, any new evidence placed before it, and (b) for the re-introduction of the six-monthly indexation of pensions'. 
The amendment will be seconded by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  For the benefit of members I think it is reasonable at this stage to quickly explain the main purpose of this Bill. We are dealing with the question of appeals. For more than 10 years before I came into this House I was one of the local medical officers for the then Repatriation Department. Since I came into this House I have helped a considerable number of ex-servicemen and exservicemen's widows both from my electorate and from other electorates who have found out about my previous experience and who have tried to establish a medical case mainly on the question of entitlement rather than assessment. 
Until now there have been four War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and four Assessment Appeal Tribunals. They have operated independently and there has not been overall consistency in their decisions on the interpretations of law. The proposition now is to establish a Repatriation Review Tribunal as the single, final body for the review of decisions on repatriation entitlement and assessment matters. So we will have a single tribunal dealing with both matters. The legislation provides for the reference of matters of principle from the Repatriation Review Tribunal to the Administrative Appeal Tribunal and for access to the Federal Court of Australia for the determination of questions of law. My main complaint about this legislation is where it deals with the question of assessment appeals. What has been happening until now is that an ex-serviceman applied for a pension to an Assessment Appeal Tribunal and he was or was not granted a pension. He either applied for a review for a higher pension and if he were dissatisfied with what had been granted he was entitled to appeal. The appeal went to the Assessment Appeal Tribunal consisting of an independent chairman and two specialist medical practitioners, usually specialists in the particular field which dealt with the main type of condition from which the ex-serviceman was suffering. In a number of cases, of course, this was not possible because the person concerned may have had entitlements for a number of conditions where different specialists would be involved. Generally speaking, a specialist was on that Assessment Appeal Tribunal who would know something about the type of condition. The ex-serviceman then prepared his case or somebody prepared it on his behalf, in effect replying to the reasons given for his original rejection. 
To repeat, at the present time the appellant lodges his application for the increase, appointments are arranged, medical examinations conducted and reports completed. On the basis of these reports the Board or occasionally the commissioner or delegate makes a decision as to the pension rate. If the veteran is dissatisfied, he lodges his appeal. At the appeal hearing the veteran is examined by independent specialists who report their findings. In addition, reports by the appellant's private doctors are often presented. This has become increasingly important since the introduction of published reasons for decisions. I would like to give myself a pat on the back there because I was one of those who felt very strongly about introducing this requirement of published reasons for decisions. This was done by the Labor Government when we had a chance to do so. As far as I was concerned it was ridiculous that a person was rejected either on the question of entitlement or assessment and he did not know why. All he was told was that he had failed. Now the appellant and his representative have a definite case against which they can present a contrary opinion. If he is to be given say, a 50 per cent pension, he can present evidence from his own local medical officers, from his employer, from his family and from friends indicating he ought to be entitled to a much greater pension. 
An appellant is examined by the two medical specialists on the Assessment Appeal Tribunal. In 40 per cent of cases, as I understand it, appeals have been successful. Under the proposed system the appellant will not be examined at the Tribunal. If any further evidence is presented, the matter will be referred back to the original adjudicating body, thus adding considerably and unnecessarily to the complexity and time involved as well as the expense to the veteran. With the removal of the independent examining specialists, it will become mandatory for the veteran to adduce evidence. In reality there will be appeals on behalf of ex-servicemen against the Department's decision using only the Department's evidence as the basis for the appeal. All ex-servicemen will face delays and complexities in obtaining a determination. 
I think that what is proposed will spell the end of a simple, relatively efficient and fair system. I can see no advantage whatsoever accruing to the veteran from these amendments although I can see advantages for the Department. It is inevitable that these amendments will work against the veteran's interest. The abolition of examination by independent specialists is diametrically opposed to the recommendations of the Toose report. It is important for people who do not know the set-up to realise that these examinations by independent specialists, at present on the Assessment Appeal Tribunals, are not provided for, as I see it, in the legislation. They never have been provided for. They have developed over the years. One of the advantages from the point of view of the appellant has been that he was seen by the independent specialists. They looked at the report from the departmental medical officers but they also examined the exserviceman. They looked at the supporting evidence which was new evidence. In 40 per cent of cases, as I said, they decided that the exserviceman was entitled to a higher pension. 
It would appear that these amendments have the interests of the Department at heart rather than the veteran. I cannot accept that the Department and its medical advisers in their examinations, reports and determinations are as completely unbiased and magnanimous as they would have us believe. The number of successful appeals- 40 per cent- surely attests to that fact. I regard the retention of the independent specialists on the Tribunal as very important. Further, I regard as fallacious the implication that having additional representatives of ex-servicemen's organisations is any guarantee of a more sympathetic hearing. After all, it has to be pointed out that all the members of the tribunals at present are ex-servicemen. Not being an ex-serviceman myself, I would argue- in some ways this is irrelevant- that those of us who did not see active service are often much more sympathetic to the ex-serviceman than other ex-servicemen themselves who may take a tougher stand against their fellow ex-servicemen. 
Much has been made of the provision of a right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the Federal Court of Australia. I welcome this additional right but it should be kept in perspective. There seems to be an impression amongst some people, including exservicemen, that this right of appeal is tantamount to a second bite of the cherry. In fact, the right of appeal will exist only on a point of principle or law respectively to those particular tribunals. The number of cases in which such a basis for appeal will exist will be minute. The appellant will not have a further right of appeal simply because he is aggrieved at the decision of the Tribunal. It is important also to remember that a large number of people are affected by these amendments. Last year 9,772 appeals were lodged, 5,96 1 of which were appeals on the question of assessment. In round figures 40 per cent of 6,000 appeals represents 2,400 ex-servicemen who were successful. They will have a much tougher job. After 1 July this year when this legislation takes effect they are less likely to have their appeals heard. 
I think it is wrong that the Government has not circulated this legislation sufficiently. According to people associated with the Australian Legal Aid Office, in Sydney at least, insufficient contact was made with them as advocates for the appellants by the present chairmen of the Assessment Appeal Tribunals. There may be all kinds of reasons why such contact was not made. But I think that when making such significant changes to the method of dealing with appeals the Minister and his Department should have made contact and heard evidence from all kinds of people. Perhaps they would then have come to a different conclusion, hopefully, the one which I have moved as an amendment in the second reading debate. This would make it possible for people to adduce new evidence at the point of appeal. Very simply- I do not want to detain people for too long about this matter- at present an ex-serviceman appealing against the assessment of his pension is entitled to adduce new evidence. He is entitled to a medical examination. In a large proportion of cases an ex-serviceman is examined at the time of his appeal. Now, if he adduces new evidence, that evidence has to go back to the Department. The whole thing has to start from scratch. The people who appear for ex-servicemen claim that these amendments will cause delays and will make it much tougher for them. 
It has to be remembered that there is often a world of difference between what appears good on paper to people not intimately associated with the system and what is the reality. In some ways, one must suspect the motives of the Department of Veterans' Affairs in proposing these amendments. One has to suspect that they are an attempt to discourage people from making appeals, to reduce the number of successful appeals and possibly- I am not sure- to eliminate the cost of the advising medical specialists. I am sure that it is felt by the members of the Department of Veterans' Affairs who make the original decisions that the thousands of successful appeals lodged each year are a reflection on their decisions. An average of 2,400 successful appeals against assessments has been lodged in one year. I am afraid that the Minister may have accepted advice from his Department on that basis. I shall quote what some of the advocates who appear for ex-servicemen have said to me although I take a neutral attitude. They said:  we regard the proposals as they apply to that AAT. as being retrograde in the extreme. Frankly, it is beyond our comprehension that the Federal body of the RSL could have agreed to them. We seriously doubt that the RSL's advocates would agree with the proposals; it is questionable whether they were even aware of them. Again, we are brought to the conclusion that decisions have been made by people who have little first hand knowledge or experience of the Appeals system. 
I do not know the procedure of the Returned Services League in getting opinions from the people who appear on behalf of its members. On a previous occasion I have met with  Mr Justice  Toose and the Secretary of the Department,  Mr Kingsland,  in regard to the proposal by  Mr Justice  Toose that there ought to be legal representation at the appeals. I can see difficulties involved. As  Mr Justice  Toose put it, it seems wrong that an ex-serviceman can use a deregistered barrister with all his ability- as well as the disability which led to his deregistration- to appear for him whilst he cannot use a registered barrister. I am not aware that this happens, but it is an extreme position put by  Mr Justice  Toose. Obviously, the other position, which is taken by the Department and which to some extent I share, is the difficulty created once lawyers are brought into this sort of appeal system. I see that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  is smiling. Hopefully he will be looking for work in the legal system again after the next election. There are difficulties involved. If lawyers were brought in, knowing what happens in workers compensation and third party insurance cases, I suggest that obviously they would add substantially to the costs. If I remember the figures for workers compensation cases in New South Wales, something of the order of 37 per cent of the total costs paid out by insurance companies goes to the legal profession; the other 63 per cent is shared by the doctors and hositals and by the poor blokes who were actually hurt. That 37 per cent does seem to be an excessive proportion to go to the legal profession; but this is not the time to become involved in that argument, except in the sense that it is relevant for those who would argue that there ought to be legal representation before the tribunals. 
Since we are discussing amendments to the Repatriation Act, I think it is relevant to raise some of the points that have been put to me by the Returned Services League on the matters it considers to be of the highest priority. It is interesting to note that two or three of the matters that are of high priority are in fact a result of active steps taken by this Government during the last six months in an attempt to save money. Amongst the top four or five matters that the RSL considers to be of the highest priority is medical and hospital treatment for tuberculosis pensioners. Honourable members will recall the changes introduced last October by this Government. Other matters are the restoration of twiceyearly indexation, which was dealt with in the same piece of legislation, and an increase in dependants' allowances, which have remained unchanged since 1954 for children and 1964 for wives. Obviously we cannot blame only this Government for that problem. Then there is the reduction in the time either in hospital or off work on full time medical treatment that qualifies a pensioner to receive war compensation at the temporary totally incapacitated rate, and the indexation of basic income limits affecting the provision of fringe benefits and the service pension. Three of those five matters are specifically results of what this Government has done. I think it is depressing that the Government has saved very small amounts of money through people who are a special responsibility of governments because they volunteered for service and served in the forces overseas or in war zones. 
That brings me to the second part of the Opposition's amendment- the question of reintroducing indexation on a six-monthly basis. As the House well knows, this change was debated simultaneously with the social security change on 10 October or 12 October last year and came into force on 1 November. Benefits for repatriation pensioners that previously were indexed on a sixmonthly basis will now be indexed on a yearly basis. The types of pensions that previously were indexed on a six-monthly basis and now have been changed to a yearly basis are pensions payable for certain disabilities general pensions and war widows' pensions. If I remember correctly, the Minister said at the time that the likely saving in a full year by changing from six-monthly to yearly indexation is something of the order of $4m. 
Four million dollars is a lot of money to us as individuals, but it is not a lot of money to this Government. Fairly recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spent something approaching $40m for his VIP aircraft and work on them and the airports that is required to make him comfortable and happy. An announcement was made last week that the Government is spending $750,000 to house a collection of butterflies moths and insects that have been caught. They are certainly going to be very well housed. I do not usually go in for this sort of comparison, but I can just imagine what would have happened if the Labor Government had done that sort of thing. Imagine the screams that would have come from honourable gentlemen sitting opposite if the Labor Government had spent $750,000 on housing for insects and nearly $40m on the personal style of travelling of the then 
Prime Minister and some of his Cabinet Ministers, and then had saved $4m by reducing the benefits paid to ex-servicemen. 
I ask the Government to consider the proposals that the Opposition has put forward. Our amendment states: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide (a) that in assessment cases, the Repatriation Review Tribunal shall have power to receive, and to make determinations upon, any new evidence placed before it, and (b) for the reintroduction of the six-monthly indexation of pensions '. 
I should emphasise that there is no hurry for this legislation from the point of view of exservicemen. The legislation proposes to alter procedures relating to the tribunals from 1 July this year. The Bill could easily be amended to provide for the proposals in point (a) of our amendment. Even if the Government does not do that now, I hope that it will do it before the Bill is introduced into the Senate. I do not know whether this Bill has gone before the appropriate Government back bench members committee, but if it has - 
-Yes. In relation to point (a) of our amendment, it would be interesting to hear from the government back bench committee members whether these issues have been raised with them by people who are involved in appeals. I wish to make one final point that may seem disconnected. I promised  Sir Mervyn  Brogan, the  Chairman  of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council, that I would raise a matter with the Minister. A telegram from  Sir Mervyn  Brogan states: 
Strongly urge amendment Repatriation Bill in clause 26, and where relevant consequentially, to omit words legally qualified medical practitioner and substitute medical specialist in relevant specialty. Such amendment regarded as most important statutory provision.  Sir Mervyn  Brogan,  Chairman. 
Honourable members know what that telegram refers to because I dealt with the matter earlier in my address. I hope that this Bill can be debated in a rational way and that the Government will think again before the Bill becomes an Act. 
I would like to raise one or two points tonight. The first is that on 22 February I asked the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  this question without notice: 
I preface my question to the Minister for Administrative Services by drawing his attention to page 24 of what is described as the final report of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation, tabled in Parliament yesterday, at which the  Chairman, Mr Harry  M. Miller, states: 
The Silver Jubilee Organisation raised in excess of $100,000 for the Queen's Silver Jubilee appeal for young Australians. 
Has this money in fact been paid to the jubilee appeal? Indeed, is the appeal fund in fact pressing for payment? What other funds were raised by the activities mentioned in the report? Will the Minister ascertain from  Mr Miller  what has been done with such moneys? 
According to the  Hansard  report,  Mr McLeay,  the Minister answered: 
I will treat this question as being on notice and will obtain the information for the honourable gentleman as soon as possible. 
I would have hoped that within a fortnight it would have been possible for the Minister to ascertain whether $100,000, allegedly raised by the Silver Jubilee Organisation, had in fact been paid to the Queen's Silver Jubilee Appeal. It would just have been a question of ringing up, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did from this chamber the other day when he wanted a statement from the officer in charge of a Victorian fund organisation. He wanted that statement within the hour. Why cannot the Minister for Administrative Services obtain a statement immediately and present it to the House in order to show whether money that was raised for a Commonwealth Government organised appeal has in fact been paid to that appeal? Surely it is possible for the Minister to do that. Is it just a cover up for  Mr Harry  M. Miller, a very prominent member of your political party,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? Surely it is possible to find out whether members of the National Country Party of Australia have shot through with the funds. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member is acting improperly to associate the chair with a political party. 
Well, with other members of the National County Party in this House. We all know that he is a prominent member of the National Country Party. We all know that he was appointed to a number of his positions, including the position in question, by prominent members of the Ministry who belong to the National Country Party. He is a personal friend of National Country Party members. While we are talking about the CP-that is the Country Party- let me deal with another CP, namely, the Communist Party of Australia. 
-There is very little difference as the honourable member for Werriwa points out. They have the same sorts of friends. The Sydney  Tribune  of 21 February, the official organ of the Communist Party of Australia, has a big article about one of their friends. It states: 
Goodluck 'Sticking to principles' Sydney: Liberal MHR Bruce Goodluck assured the Council for the Aged last week that he will proceed with his private member's Bill to restore six-monthly pension rises. 
He told the meeting his loyalty was divided between the party and his principles. He would stick to his principles. 
His undertaking came only days after Prime Minister Fraser had carpeted him at a government parties' meeting. Fraser and Treasurer Howard refuse to back down on their Budget's provision for 12 monthly increases. 
NSW Combined Pensioners' Association secretary Jim Sharrock - 
He is a good friend of the  Tribune-  told  Tribune  the Council meeting represented a broad section of pensioners, including trade unionists, public servants, teachers and handicapped and invalid pensioners. 
Liberal MHR Maurice Neil stressed that people must write to their members supporting the Bill', Jim says. 'It depends on how much pressure is brought on members as to when it 'II be introduced '. 
So we have an interesting combination of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  being praised by the Communist Party of Australia as being very active members. It is not surprising that they are prized by the Communist Party of Australia because that Party must contain one of the largest bunches of hypocrites in this country, apart from those on the Government benches. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
Has he investigated claims by the New South Wales Doctors Reform Society, contained in its recent submission to his Department, that medical services at Sydney Airport are dangerously inadequate. 
If so, will he take positive and speedy action to rectify this situation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article entitled Health Department Warns Pathologists on Bulk Billing' published in the Medical Letter, No. 199 of 22 February 1979. 
If so, is there any substance in the claim that there was not one laboratory operating within the letter of the law. 
Does he intend to introduce a relevant change in legislation, but not before May as claimed in the article. 
I wish to start by reassuring the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  that no matter how large the pressure groups on either side are, I think he has a very good chance of holding his seat. This is mainly a symbolic debate. I am one of those who do not really believe that passing or not passing this motion- if it were passed, the Government's legislation would be drafted according to the lines of the motion- would make the slightest difference to the number of terminations carried out in this country or even to the method of terminations. I do not accept the proposition that people will be rushing to back yard abortionists if the average subsidy towards payment of $67 is taken away. Having said that, I also do not believe that there is any point to this amendment. If the people who moved this motion- the so-called Lusher motion- feel strongly about it then let them test the feeling of this House on a specific resolution, that the Crimes Act for the Australian Capital Territory be altered in a certain way. Those honourable members can then say that at least they have tried to prevent terminations of pregnancy in the Australian Capital Territory, which is the only place where they have any say. They should not try to get around it by this sort of proposal. This is important. 
The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)-  for whom I have much more respect than I have for the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)-  at least put the factual proposition as he saw it. I do not know his religious beliefs in that I do not know to which religion he belongs. He said quite plainly that one 's attitude to this motion or to the general attitude on termination of pregnancy depends completely on one's assumption or otherwise that a foetus becomes a human being at the time of conception; that is an important point. It is important that he stated his own philosophical point of view, that he believed that point. That is why I state my belief. I do not believe that this happens but, at the same time, I do believe that there is a continuum from the time of conception to the time of birth and that the foetus is closer to a human being than, say, the whales about which people are becoming very excited at the present time. I do believe that there is something more to a human foetus, even at one month or two months' gestation, than there is to whales about which we are supposed to get very excited because they have brains approaching those of intelligent dogs, or something like that. 
I believe that the honourable member for Hume could be described in Australia as the poor man's Ayatollah Khomeini in the sense that he wants to introduce a religious form of law rather than a secular law to which we have become used. I think the honourable member for Hume and others are perfectly entitled to try to impose their views on others. There are honourable members in the debate who have stated that just because Catholics and others believe that a foetus at the moment of conception becomes a human being, it does not mean that they should be able to impose that view on other people in the community. I believe that would be true if, for example, they had strong views on pornography or similar matters. They have no right to try to impose on me their views on what book I can read or what pictures I can see. I believe there is a complete difference in kind, quantity and quality when one believes that there is murder involved. If the life of a human being is ended by the termination of pregnancy one is entitled not only to stop the termination of pregnancy amongst his own supporters but also amongst non-believers. It is obviously true that if one believes that murder is being committed one is entitled to stop that murder whether those people are fellow believers or not. 
I accept the proposition that people with those views are entitled to try to impose them on the community. I do not hold it against them. If I held that view I would consider myself a hypocrite if I did not try to impose it on the community. If one believes murder is being committed surely one should try to take every possible step to prevent that murder. The hypocrisy comes in with this. The honourable member for Hume has waxed very loud in the last four months, since he has become prominent and well loved by certain people in the community. He certainly receives plenty of publicity. Good luck to him. But he has been completely inconsistent. I now wish to deal with the matter from the point of view of a medical practitioner who is interested in the sorts of things with which I deal in this House; in other words, as the shadow Minister for Health, although obviously I am not speaking to the matter as the shadow Minister for Health because this debate is not on party lines. Let us take the very first point, where the honourable member for Hume says that standard ward termination will still be wholly paid for by taxpayers. This is obviously true. He will encourage people to have their terminations as standard ward patients. I completely agree with him. He and other members of this House know very well that I think that fee for service private medical practice is wrong. It leads to all kinds of bad aspects, especially in surgery. 
However, for a person to argue that it is wrong to contribute $67 towards the payment of a termination under certain conditions or unless certain conditions are fulfilled, as the honourable member for Hume argues, and then to say that he will still subsidise this at the rate of approximately $ 1 50 a day in New South Wales, $200 in the Australian Capital Territory and so on in other States cannot be justified. Even private terminations in public hospitals will still be highly subsidised because the patient will be paying only $40 towards the bed/day cost. The real cost is $ 1 50 a day so the taxpayer, in the case of New South Wales, will be subsidising the cost by amounts of somewhere between $100 and $1 10 a day and, in the Australian Capital Territory, by $150 a day. Speaking as a medical practitioner, hopefully this debate will stop in the very near future when the use of prostaglandins will become possible, where people who want to terminate their pregnancy will insert a tampon or use some other method. That will bring on a contraction of the uterus and an expulsion of the contents of that uterus. One assumes that from then on this argument on the question of termination of pregnancy, because it does not involve a surgical interference, will disappear. I think it has stopped to a large extent with the introduction of the pill. I remember the days when I was in medical practice and the Catholic Church objected to all kinds of contraceptives. When I started in practice in Guildford, because there were Catholic pharmacists in the area, you could obtain your condoms only from the local garage because it handled the rubber goods. You could not go into a pharmacy and get contraceptives. Once oral contraceptives came on to the market, they soon changed their attitude and were happy to sell those particular tablets. 
The second part of the so-called Lusher motion could include not only curettes and so on, which are normally talked about, but also any prescription. If you really enforced the second part and if a doctor prescribed any sort of tablet that is likely to bring about a termination of pregnancy- there are tablets which at least attempt to bring that about, though often unsuccessfully- he or she would have to certify that, according to the proposition moved by the honourable member for Hume and the honourable member for Perth, it is not intended for the termination of a pregnancy. I know that this is taking a long bow, but in fact it would be true. 
I make one other point on the question of the 50,000 or 60,000 abortions that are alleged to be carried out each year in Australia at the present time. I do not know the real number. I have a fair amount of contempt for the people who run the private abortion clinics. I believe that many of them are crooks. I believe that a fair proportion of the people who allegedly have had pregnancies terminated in those particular private clinics have never been pregnant. I believe that if a women only walks past those places she is encouraged to go in and have a termination of pregnancy. In other countries we have newspapers and magazines that are more inquisitive to see what goes on. We have seen accounts by female newspaper reporters who presented themselves at those clinics, asked if they were pregnant, knowing full well that they were not, handed over urine specimens from males, been told that the specimens showed that they were pregnant, then been admitted for a termination of pregnancy. I am sure that exactly the same sort of thing is going on in Australia. If it makes any honourable members happy, I am sure that at least this means that less terminations are being performed than the figures suggest. 
I now attack some of the hypocrisy of the socalled Right to Life Association. A publication was sent to me called the  N.S. W. Right to Life Newsletter  of February 1979. On page 4 this heading appears: 'Items of the Medical Benefits schedule under which it is possible for an induced abortion procedure.' That does not make any sense to me but I am sure it was selected by one of its medical advisers. Beneath that heading there are references to things that the Association says should be eliminated from the medical benefits schedule. One is item 6536, hysterectomy and dissection of pelvic glands'. A radical hysterectomy and dissection of pelvic glands is carried out on women with cancer of the uterus or the cervix. Is the Right to Life Association arguing that pregnant women who have cancer of the cervix or cancer of the uterus should carry on with that particular pregnancy? Further on this article refers to 'removal of Ectopic gestation'. Is it argued by the Right to Life Association that a woman should carry on with an ectopic gestation even though there is for practical purposes no possibility of having a live birth? But that is what the Right to Life Association is putting up. The reason that it is publishing this is to persuade people that some people are making huge amounts of money. Those particular items carry benefits of $350 and $156 respectively. This is the sort of lying propaganda that is being published by the Right to Life Association; it is the sort of propaganda that I strongly object to. 
In most of the propositions that have been put to this House there is no reference to the possibility of allowing a termination of pregnancy because of genetic illness, because of rape or because of incest. Many of the people who are associated with the moving of this motion were associated with Congressman Hyde. I do not mean the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  but the man who came to Australia last year or the year before. I think that the honourable member for Hume and the honourable member for Perth probably would argue that they are following in his footsteps. In some way certainly he has been successful in the United States. In the Congressional Record page H 12489 of 29 November 1977,  Mr Hyde  said: 
Under the present law- and, remember, the present law is what I support- there is treatment for rape . . . 
By treatment of rape he means termination of pregnancy-   . . or incest victims, at least during the first month following the occurrence. 
I cannot see the philosophical argument in the statement 'the first month following the occurrence'. Is there a difference between the life potential, the life in the foetus, before the end of the first month or at the end of the first month? I would just like to emphasise that he said: 
Under the present law- and, remember, the present law is what I support- there is treatment for rape or incest victims, at least during the first month following the occurrence. 
I do not want to take even the full five minutes available to me. As the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is at the table I would like to make one or two comments and ask him two questions. I am not referring to the debate which is still continuing on the termination of pregnancy. The other day he published figures which came I think from the cause of death statistics ascertained by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It is interesting to note that in the years 1975 to 1977 there were two deaths from abortion and 69 deaths from child birth in Australia. If it is correct that there is approximately one abortion per four live births in Australia or, as one particular amendment puts it, three live births. I will take the situation to be one abortion for four live births. That means that the maternal risk is six and a half times greater in the case of pregnancy than in the case of a termination of pregnancy. 
-I was just reminded of this matter because I saw the Minister sitting at the table. There are two other points that I would like to put to him. Firstly, can he obtain the figures reasonably soon so that we can look at them, digest them and make some comments as to what ought to happen in the next financial year so far as medical and hospital insuranceparticularly medical insurance- is concerned? I refer to the amounts of money paid out by the Department of Health on two levels, one on the basis of the 40 per cent refund of the common fee of $20 which has been the case since 1 November 1978, and secondly, in relation to disadvantaged patients. Just how many payments are made there? I know that it is difficult to come to a final conclusion on this matter because people do not claim immediately and there may be three, four and up to six months delay. I hope that the Minister will provide the House with figures as soon as possible so as to give us some basis for intelligent comment on what is happening at present concerning the health insurance scheme. 
Finally, I address the Minister in his capacity representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in this chamber. I noted in passing that the New Zealand Government, I think in February 1977, reduced the minimum age for the age pension from 65 years to 60 years. Because the matter of how to deal with unemployment, is one of the topics which is now under general discussion, I would be interested to know how many people take advantage of that reduced age limit. Also, could the Minister for Social Security provide the House with information as to the sorts of tests that are in force in New Zealand- means test, income tests et cetera- in regard to the eligibility of age pensioners? That would give the House some idea, if we are to compare Australia with New Zealand, as to what would happen if we reduced the age requirement for an age pension from 65 years to 60 years or 62 years or whatever it may be. 
-During Question Time today the National Country Party Whip implied that I was not telling the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth et cetera. I feel that I have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
When was the $2 per day domiciliary nursing care benefit introduced. 
What would its value be in February 1979, if it had been indexed according to the CPI. 
What would be the estimated cost of indexation of the benefit for the financial year 1978-79 starting from the $2 per day base on 1 July 1978. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
What is the estimated increase in staff for Medibank and Medibank Private, made necessary by the proposed abolition of bulk billing for pathology services. 
What is the estimated increased annual cost in administering the proposed changes. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Will he supply figures for claims per contributor for payment of pathology services in 1976-77 by (a) Medibank, (b) Medibank Private, (c) HBA, Victoria, and (d) private funds not allowing bulk-billing. 
I was surprised to hear the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  attack the fuel price equalisation plan and in so doing be supported by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter).  I would have thought that in the Kalgoorlie electorate at least there would not be many people who would benefit from the fuel price equalisation plan. Yet the honourable member for Kalgoorlie seems to support the honourable member for Franklin. 
But that is not the reason for my rising to speak tonight. I am really pleased to see the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  in charge of the House tonight because he is one of the very few reasonable members on that side of the House and I would like to hear either privately or publicly- of course preferably publicly- his comments on the problem that I wish to raise and, for that matter, the comments of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who is a lawyer. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! There is no point of order. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie will have the opportunity to seek the indulgence of the Chair if he claims to have been misrepresented. 

A court case is going on at present- I will not refer to the actual proceedings- and one of the points that was made yesterday by the Crown Prosecutor acting for the Commonwealth, and I emphasise that he is acting for the Commonwealth, was that evidence had been gained through a recording device placed in the Kingsford surgery of one of the defendants. The Crown Prosecutor,  Mr Rofe,  Q.C., said: 
For the first time in Australia the Crown hoped to rely on this evidence. 
I think such an action is completely wrong. I do not know what the legal position is, whether ponce or people working for the Commonwealth Department of Social Security have the legal right to do such a thing, but I assume that they have- otherwise they would not have produced the recording in evidence. I can just imagine the screams, and I think the justified screams, from the legal profession or from politicians if this were done for the purpose of obtaining evidence in the offices of legal practitioners or of politicians 
I think in a way it is worse when it involves doctors' surgeries. I think that morally it is completely wrong for government agents to place a listening device in the surgery of a medical practitioner when it is quite obvious that a significant number of conversations that take place between the patient and the doctor are of a private nature. They should not be recorded. They should not be available for some police to enjoy themselves afterwards. I do not know what evidence has come out of such a recording. Maybe it is criminal evidence. But the sorts of recordings that will have been made in that doctor's surgery will obviously also refer to other things. I think it is completely wrong that the Commonwealth Police should have access to recordings of private conversations between a medical practitioner and his patients. 
I do not know what kind of action this House can take, but I do think that as individual members we should express at least our objection to this son of thing happening. One can imagine the laughter and possibly enjoyment that Commonwealth Police derived from listening to private conversations between patients and their medical practitioners. I appeal to honourable members on the other side of the House- after all, we on this side have no way of controlling the Government- to extract from the Government at their party meeting tomorrow some sort of undertaking that the Government will not do this sort of thing in the future, that it will not place recording devices in doctors' surgeries or, for that matter, legal chambers, politicians' offices and other places where people are prepared to speak freely and we encourage them to speak freely and to tell us the truth in whatever capacity we are listening to them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
1 ) Are registered medical and hospital funds able to invest their reserves in debentures, stocks and shares. 
If so, (a) what procedures are there to ensure that no benefit accrues to the directors of funds and (b) has he a list of debentures, stocks and shares in which fund reserves are invested. 
-by leave-I will not waste the time of the House by thanking all of the people associated with the InterParliamentary Union Conference. As far as I am concerned the positive aspects can be taken as read. I rise to dissociate myself from one aspect of the recommendations of the report and to incorporate a table in  Hansard.  The section from which I wish to dissociate myself concerns recommendation No. 1, which, in part, states that the Parliament and the Government should give close attention to the resolutions of the InterParliamentary Union conferences. The recommendation goes on to say that the Government should respond. As the honourable member for Newcastle pointed out, only a small proportion of countries attending IPU conferences have anything approaching a parliament as we understand it. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which outlines political rights in the member countries. 
There are 76 member countries. A figure '1' labels a country as having the highest level of political rights and the figure '7' for all practical purposes, labels countries as having no political rights. The table has been prepared by an organisation called Freedom House. The table shows that the organisation is even handed and condemns countries allegedly from both sides of politics. I ask leave to incorporate that table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

Albania 7, Algeria 6, Australia 1, Austria 1, Belgium 1, Brazil 4, Bulgaria 7, Canada 1, Costa Rica 1, Cuba 7, Cyprus 4, Czechoslovakia 7, Democratic People's Republic of Korea 7, Denmark 1, Egypt S, Finland 2, France 1, Gabon 6, German Democratic Republic 7, Germany (Federal Republic of) I, Greece 2, Haiti 7, Hungary 6, Iceland 1, India 2, Indonesia S, Iran 6 (at the time), Ireland 1, Israel 2, Italy 2, Ivory Coast 6, Japan 2, Jordan 6, Kenya 5, Lebanon 4, Liberia 6, Luxembourg 1, Madagascar 5, Malawi 7, Malaysia 3, Mexico 4, Monaco, Mongolia 7, Morocco 4, Nepal 6, Netherlands 1, New Zealand 1, Nicaragua 5, Norway 1, Panama S, Paraguay 3, Poland 6, Portugal 2, Republic of Korea S, Romania 7, Senegal S, Sierra Leone 3, Singapore 3, Spain 2, Sri Lanka 2, Sudan 6, Sweden 1, Switzerland 1, Syrian Arab Republic 3, Thailand 6, Tunisia 6, Turkey 2, United Arab Emirates 3, United Kingdom 1, United Republic of Cameroon 6, United States of America 1, USSR 7, Venezuela 1, Yugoslavia 6, Zaire 7, Zambia 3. 
-The table shows the points that are given for political rights in the member countries. Albania is given seven points, Algeria six, Bulgaria seven, Cuba seven, Czechoslovakia seven, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea seven, Egypt five, Gabon six, the Democratic Republic of Germany seven, Haiti seven and so on. It is hardly the sort of organisation which presents worthwhile recommendations to this Parliament. I think that it would be ridiculous for this Government to go to the trouble and to the embarrassment of responding to those propositions. 
In a sense I must apologise to the House for not spending much of my time, even though I was a delegate, at the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference in Bonn. I attended at the beginning and at the end. In between I took the opportunity of a train ride- I emphasise 'train ride'- to Berlin. Some may say that that trip confirmed my prejudices more than anything I would have seen at the conference where all people pretend to be democratic. We know very well that the delegations from the vast majority of the countries always vote unitedly because they have only a government point of view to put which is reactionary in the real sense. 
I took a train trip to Berlin. It is important that I emphasise that I travelled by train. One does not see much by flying to East Berlin. I think that one of the basic rights that human beings ought to have is the right to leave their own country. The train to West Berlin travels through East Germany, the so-called German Democratic Republic. The train has sealed windows and doors. At the final stop before West Berlin the Volpo or Volkspolizei come alongside the train with Alsatian dogs. The dogs muzzles and leads are removed. The dogs are placed underneath the rear of the train and they proceed to the engine, with the guards walking alongside, to make sure that nobody is hanging on underneath to get out of the Democratic Republic. It is easier to search underneath a bus. A mirror is pushed underneath the buses to make sure that nobody leaves the German Democratic Republic. I suggest that some of our parliamentarians ought to do what I did instead of flying around and being entertained and impressed by official statements. 
I re-emphasise that I dissociate myself from the proposition that we ought to respond formally to these recommendations. At the most, on any one issue we were always fighting a defensive battle. Some propositions which were put up could be reduced slightly in impact. Chile, South Africa and Israel are not the only undemocratic countries. There are plenty of other undemocratic countries. I am not suggesting that some of the countries referred to are not undemocratic. The countries that I have referred to are not the only ones that are not undemocratic. Let us look at the proposed venue of the future meetings as outlined in the report. The 1979 meeting is to be held in Prague, the 1980 meeting in Berlin in the German Democratic Republic and the 1981 meeting in Havana, Cuba. I suggest that it is completely inappropriate for an organisation called the Inter Parliamentary Union to hold its meetings in those places. 
-After listening to the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  I can say that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  cannot be all that bad if he decided to get rid of the honourable member from this Parliament. 
-I am not going to deny that. I do not know whether the Minister for Finance was born in New Zealand. If he was it might explain some of the hang ups of the honourable member for Fadden. I want to deal particularly with the section of the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  concerning the rejection of the recommendation of the report produced by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It stated that the birthplace of citizens need not necessarily appear on Australian passports. The honourable member for Fadden- who does not seem to have many so-called new Australians or naturalised Australians in his electorate- said that 'we should not pander to the whims and wishes of those born overseas'. I quote him exactly. I think that is a depressing attitude. If those whims and wishes are justified for some of those people they would lead to severe disadvantages when those people go overseas. I strongly support the proposition that it ought to be possible to have an Australian passport which does not show the place of birth. It may show the place of domicile, place of residence or anything like that but there is no point in having the place of birth disclosed. The Minister, in his justification, said that it is a question of identification. That is just ridiculous. If a passport is issued to one Cameron and it shows the birthplace as Brisbane surely that does not identify that person. Probably thousands of Camerons have been born in Brisbane. To make sure that a particular passport belongs to a particular person fingerprints would have to be included on the passport. I am not necessarily saying that this is a good or a bad thing but I noticed that it was advocated today by a person, I think, in the Department of Foreign Affairs Passport Office. I was  Chairman  of the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which dealt with dual nationalities. Most of the persons whom objected to dual nationality and who recommended the deletion of the birthplace were, broadly speaking, from behind the Iron Curtain. I will read into  Hansard  part of a submission from the Joint Baltic Committee of Canberra. It states: 
A matter which requires special attention regarding Australian citizens of Baltic origin travelling abroad is the information contained in Australian passports issued to such travellers. At present such passports require to state the place of birth of the holder of the passport. If such place happens to be within the present boundaries of the Soviet Union and the passport is presented to a Soviet authority abroad, or at a place which is governed by the Soviet Union, the authority may treat the person as a Soviet citizen for all purposes. He may be detained, imprisoned or deported to remote Soviet regions, without giving him adequate right and opportunity to defend himself. 
We believe that there is no special need to state in the passport the place of the birth of the holder of the passport. Such information is in the same category as the religion or the race of a person. It is not essential for identification purposes but it may cause embarrassment and hardship to the holder. It is suggested that the 'place of birth' be omitted from Australian passports and the 'present domicile' of the passport holder be inserted instead. 
So much for what the honourable member for Fadden, speaking for the Government, said, that the Government was not wishing to pander to the whims and wishes of those born overseas. It is happy to appeal to them to get their votes at election time, to put on a fake anti-communist or anti-Russian attitude and talk big about helping them to reconquer the Baltic states. But those people who live in Australia and who want to be Australian citizens are not protected by this Government and no attempt has been made to do so. The Government goes out of its way to continue to insert the place or origin of these persons on passports, therefore clearly distinguishing between the passports of those who were born in Australia and naturalised Australians. I quote the final paragraph of the recommendation from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The Committee consisted of members from both sides of the House, but the majority were members from the Government side of the House. The report states: 
There is a strong argument that in any official document the Australian Government should not appear to make distinctions between naturalised and natural-born citizens. In view of this the practice of showing the place of birth of the holder on an Australian passport might be discontinued and in its stead 'place of residence' inserted. The adoption of this suggestion might tend to avoid some difficulties encountered by dual nationals when visiting the country of their other nationality. The Committee suggests further study of this possible change in the form of passports. 
The Minister was cavalier in his response to that issue. He talked about identification and possible problems arising. This question is important in this country. A very large number of Australian citizens were born overseas and they demand exactly the same protection from this country and this Government as those who are Australian born. Honourable members make long speeches at naturalisation ceremonies about the benefits of becoming naturalised. However, we go to no trouble to protect these people when they visit overseas. 
From their countries of on. tin. If they go back to Yugoslavia or back to the Soviet Union they are treated as nationals of those countries. The governments in those countries know that they originally came from there because their place of birth is shown on their Australian passport. There is no necessity for showing the place of birth. That is the most important criticism I have to make of the proposed amending legislation. It is difficult to bring in amending legislation regarding passports because it is done only once in every 10 years. The Government had this opportunity to make the necessary amendment. Some countries do not accept a passport without the place of birth specified but this can be pointed out to a person when he applies for a passport. The present application for a passport asks the place of birth of applicants who were born overseas, but it is optional whether a person names the country. The place of birth is usually a distinguishing characteristic in determining the country of origin. I would suggest that both the place of birth and the country of origin could be left as optional questions, but obviously it should be pointed out to those persons who are applying for a passport that failure to answer these questions may lead to certain disadvantages. When they wanted to visit or go through particular countries their passport might not be accepted. 
I refer next to visas. Every country has the right to ask for certain information to be given by persons applying for visas. I think it is important that the Government at least try to do something about it. I refer to clause 10 of the amending legislation in respect of which we criticised the penalty. Clause 10 reads: 
After section 8 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 8  a.  If an Australian passport is lost or is stolen, the person to whom the passport was issued shall, as soon as practicable after he becomes aware of the loss or theft- 
If the passport is lost or stolen within Australiareport the loss or theft to a Commonwealth Police Officer . . .;or 
if the passport is lost or stolen outside Australia . . . to an officer of, or a person employed at, an Australian diplomatic or consular mission. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for 1 year. 
I think that is an excessive penalty. It does not really benefit the Government and does not really benefit those in the community who want to misuse passports. The proposition is that people will misuse their passports, will lend them to somebody else who, for example might look similar to them, and that the way to detect them and to punish them is by giving them a one year penalty. Let us just assume that somebody looked similar to me. The only person that I can think of with whom I could be confused- and it has been to my sorrow- is  Sir John  Kerr, the former Governor-General. Assuming  Sir John  Kerr had to leave this country and was unable to obtain a passport because of some offence that he may or may not have committed in this country and he asked me for my passport, which I gave him, what I would do if I was really conspiring with him is, within a day of him leaving the country, report that my passport had been lost or stolen. I would, therefore, not be punishable under the particular propositions outlined in clause 10 of this Bill. It is ridiculous that we are trying to punish people with a penalty- not a money penalty but an imprisonment penalty of up to one year only. In fact the Bill states: 'Imprisonment for 1 year'. It does not say: 'Up to one year'. 
-No, it does not say that. It says: 'Imprisonment for 1 year'. It does not say Not exceeding' as the honourable member for Phillip suggested. It provides for imprisonment for one year for somebody who does not report the loss of a passport. If we were not using a passport most of us would not be aware that our passport had been lost or stolen until such time as we wanted to use it again. That might be one to three years after it had been lost or stolen. I think there is a reasonable case to be made out for not having such a big penalty for that particular offence or alleged offence. 
One final point that I would like to raise as it has been brought to my attention- I think it refers basically to clause 7 of the amending legislation- is where the Minister apparently is given new powers as far as the issue of passports is concerned. I do not quite see that he did not have those powers before, but it has been reported to me- I hope that the Minister will be able to deny that in his reply- that while another Minister was acting as Minister for Foreign Affairs recently, during the period of this Government, he issued a diplomatic passport to  Mr Harry  M. Miller and that the Department is now trying to get that particular diplomatic passport back from  Mr Harry  M. Miller, who is in significant strife, as is known. I am not sure that this is true but it has been reported to me by very reliable sources close to this Government. I do hope that the Minister will be able to deny this in his reply. I have tried to cross-examine the person concerned because I thought it might have been an official passport which was issued to him in his capacity as representative of the Government overseas, or whatever he was doing when he was going to Paris, but I was assured that it was a diplomatic passport as distinct from an ordinary, official passport. I think it is wrong if that was done by a friend of his in the Government and I do hope that the Government will clear up that particular allegation one way or the other by responding to it later tonight. 
-A few minutes ago, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  came into the chamber and referred to the issuing of a diplomatic passport to  Mr Harry  M. Miller. He said that this was done on three or four occasions and that it was perfectly all right because of what  Mr Miller  was doing for the country. I quote two answers to questions on notice. The first was given on 4 May 1977 to a question on notice- No. 74- asked by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It reads: 
1 ) Will he take steps to ensure that members of the Commonwealth Parliament representing their country at meetings of the (a) United Nations General Assembly (b) InterParliamentary Union and (c) Commonwealth Parliamentary Association are issued with diplomatic passports. 
The answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was: 
(a), (b) and (c) The issue of diplomatic passports for the purposes suggested would not fall within the established guidelines approved by the Government. 
On 1 1 May 1 978, an answer was provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to question on notice No. 975 asked by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. It is a long question but it basically deals with persons entitled to diplomatic passports. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
The issue of diplomatic passports is not dependent on an officer's public service classification. Diplomatic passports are issued to officers in accordance with the approved categories as prescribed by Cabinet which provide for the issue of diplomatic passports to members of an Australian Government Department or instrumentality - 
I emphasise the next few words- 
. assigned to a diplomatic mission overseas and notified to the receiving country as holding a recognised diplomatic rank. 
I would like to hear from the Minister what diplomatic rank  Mr Harry  M. Miller held in this Government, which diplomatic mission overseas he was assigned to and which country was given notice that he held such recognised diplomatic rank? I do not believe that he held any diplomatic rank and the reason why he received a diplomatic passport was that he was a treasurer of the National Country Party and an associate of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who has acted as Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is the only reason why he has received a diplomatic passport. It is scandalous for Australia that members of the National Country Party executive can get diplomatic passports and keep them, even though they are of extremely doubtful character. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Which of the recommendations of the Pathology Services Working Party have (a) been and (b) not been adopted. 
In the case of those not adopted, what is the reason for non-adoption. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
Can he say whether Lady Kerr set up a company to market  Sir John  Kerr's manuscript to publishers, newspapers, television networks, et cetera, and did  Sir John  Kerr sell an asset to this company. 
Is it a fact that, not being a professional author, the money  Sir John  was paid is a capital gain and not subject to income tax. 

 - Mr Speaker, you will be pleased to hear that I have changed the wording of my question which is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of the fact that in answer to my question on notice No. 3155, which he answered last week, when he agreed that registered health insurance organisations can invest in debentures, stocks and shares, and that his department does not maintain details of these investments, will he investigate reports that the non-elected directors of some of the funds, who are also directors or major shareholders of finance companies, are using health fund reserves for their own profit? Apart from the immorality of this action, how can we be sure that the money will not be lost by investment in companies which may follow the way of Associated Securities Ltd? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1 979: 
What are the (a) current approved fees and (b) names and locations of those nursing homes where the cheapest ward accommodation exceeds the minimum patient contribution plus the basic nursing home benefits, for each State and Territory. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Are any figures available for discouraged workers (defined by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics as a person who wants a job but has not looked for one during the preceding 4 weeks); if so, what are they. 
Are figures available on those persons available for work, who had sought employment in the preceding 6 months but had not looked in the past 4 weeks; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Will Tasmania be funded on a cost/share basis (a) to open its own neo-natal intensive care unit and (b) to provide sufficient staff to open the Douglas Parker Rehabilitation Centre when stage II is complete. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a statement by the General Practitioner Society that their  Major Medical  Plan underwritten by the Australian Casualty Company does not need the 40 per cent contribution from the Government. 
If so, will he obtain a list of the Society's members to carry out their wishes and save the taxpayers some money. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Were new guidelines adopted by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee at its February meeting. 
If so, what changes have been made to the guidelines in respect of prices of pharmaceutical benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Was the maternity allowance first paid on 10 October 1912. 
) When was it abolished. 
Can the Minister say whether the honourable members for (a) Hume, (b) Gwydir and (c) Perth voted against its abolition. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
What are the names of the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in (a) New South Wales, (b) Queensland, (c) South Australia, (d) Tasmania, (e) Victoria and (f) Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Has he or his advisers studied the US Atomic Energy Commission's report entitled 'Reactor Safety Study' known as the Rasmussen report and issued in 1 97S. 
) Has he or his advisers studied the Risk Assessment Review Group Report prepared for the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission by Harold W. Lewis and others issued in 1 978. 
If so, does he accept Lewis' view that it is nearly impossible to say whether nuclear reactors are acceptably safe or not. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Will personal treatment entitlement cards be issued to repatriation beneficiaries entitled to the full range of treatment benefits to provide them with freedom of choice of a local medical officer. 
-I ask the Acting Prime Minister: What is this Government's present position on mineral export guidelines? How does he react to the intermittent attempts of the Minister for Trade and Resources to disagree with them? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Is the Minister able to state whether New Zealand in 1977 reduced the qualifying age for the age pension from 65 to 60 years. 
Is the Minister also able to state what proportion of eligible persons have availed themselves of this provision and have withdrawn from the workforce. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the case of  Mr Jack  McCabe who died in Concord Repatriation Hospital in May 1977 following routine tests ordered by his Department for a pension claim. 
Considering the seriousness of the case, can he state (a) why he did not consider an inquiry necessary and (b) why it has taken almost 2 years for an inquest to be ordered. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Has he received a further letter, dated 23 March 1979, from  Mr I.  H. Davies of 1 Kanimbla Road, Nedlands, W.A., regarding leukaemia and allied disorders in ex-servicemen of World War II, disputing the results of a study carried out by  Dr J.  W. Donovan of the Department of Health for his Department. 
Is he completely satisfied with the results of  Dr Donovan's  study, in view of the criticism voiced by  Mr Davies. 
If not, will he consider financing an independent study of the incidence of leukaemia and allied disorders in exservicemen who served in areas where malaria was endemic. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1979: 
Who decides to which psychiatric specialist invalid pensioners should be referred when their pensions are reviewed. 
-I welcome the Minister for Health back to Australia. I am sorry to see that he has not followed the initiative of other Ministers who take their opposites on trips to meetings of organisations such as the World Health Organisation. My question is directed to him on the basis of evidence that was given by  Mr Matt  Carroll, First Assistant Director-General for Insurance, Hospitals and Nursing Homes, before Senate Estimates Committee C on 4 May 1979. 1 am not sure whether the Minister was in Australia at the time. Referring to an unnamed health insurance fund and to the fact that that fund was being very tough in the application of its rules, he said: 
One particular fund has had to take a very literal interpretation of its rules in relation to the supplementary hospital table because it was having financial and liquidity problems. 
Can the Minister tell the House the name of this fund? Are the contributors not entitled to be aware of any financial and liquidity problems that this fund may have? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. During Question Time, I think following a Dorothy Dix question from the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  asking his second question in this chamber, the Minister for unemployment quoted-- 
-I do of course apologise. 
-I obviously apologise. I did not realise that the honourable member for Macquarie asked the question and the Minister for Employment  (Mr Viner)  was lucky enough to have a transcript with him in the House. 
-I emphasise what I said at that conference because the House was given selective quotations by the Minister today. I recall emphasising at the particular conference that while there are insufficient jobs available- I emphasise that there are insufficient jobs availablethere seems to be no point in pushing young kids into jobs contrary to their wishes, contrary to the benefits to their employers and where another person who has family responsibilities and who wants to do that job loses his job or does not get a job. We were trying to have an intelligent discussion there on unemployment. I am not in the slightest bit ashamed for having said that. I hope the Minister will have the decency to include in 

 Hansard the whole of the transcript and not just the particular selective point where I said that there was no point in pushing young kids into a job. What I said, and emphasise again, is that while there are not enough jobs available it is wrong to push young kids into jobs that are taken away from older people who need the jobs. It is not to the benefit of employers. It is not to the benefit of this country. It is not even to the benefit of the taxpayers of this country. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March1979: 
) Has his attention been drawn to information placed before the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources that his Department has admitted that inefficient disinsecting of overseas aircraft may have been to blame for the recent introduction of the spotted alfalfa aphid which has devastated Australian lucerne crops. 
) If so, why has his Department recently instructed field officers to reduce spray treatment on international aircraft arriving in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the opinion expressed by the Livestock and Grain Producers ' Association in its submission to the inquiry into quarantine measures by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources that there was no justification for over zealous economy drives and staff limitations when these were considered against the potential massive costs of a breakdown in quarantine security. 
If so, what action does he intend to take to prevent such a potentially disastrous breakdown in quarantine security. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
Was Keith Compton Gale Managing Director of Gollin and Co. Ltd when  Mr Gale  provided staff assistance to him as Shadow Minister for Labour for the purpose of preparing an industrial relations policy. 
) What was the financial value of this assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Which Australian States have provision for compensation for injuries caused by criminal acts, such as the New South Wales Criminal Injuries Compensation Act. 
Is there any compensation for these acts in the Australian Capital Territory; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that surveillance work is being carried out at the Royal Australasian Ornithologist Union Bird Observatory, Eyre, WA concerning birds as virus carriers. 
Given the value of this work in providing an early warning of diseases that attack people and domestic animals, will he provide some encouragement or financial assistance for those involved. 
-by leave-I have had this statement for only a short time- an hour or so. I certainly would not dispute the facts as supplied to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  by his Department. I think a more general issue arises. Consideration of such an issue is very difficult for those of us- hopefully I am referring to the majority of people in this House- who try to come to intelligent and rational decisions on the sorts of problems facing the Government in this area. I do not think that anybody can argue with the propositions put by the Minister or his Department that we have to establish a sound basis for judgment et cetera and that we have to protect the population from any risk. The difficulty we have, of course, is that different people in the community have different views on this aspect. It is difficult to decide how to judge who is putting up a rational case and who is not. 
I think all of us have prejudices or develop certain prejudices when we listen to people. We decide- sometimes for the wrong reasons- that particular people or groups are making too much of an issue. They may exaggerate. Some groups we feel are always exaggerating many issues. It is a sort of crying wolf syndrome. Sometimes people keep on crying wolf. In the end, when some wolves are around we do not take any notice of these people. That is one of the things that worries me. On the one hand we have people who like to sensationalise. On the other hand we undoubtedly have people who are, I think for practical purposes, extremists in the sense that they object to any sort of synthetic substances being used for any purposes and they worry that all synthetic substances will cause some damage to human beings, to the environment or whatever. That is undoubtedly true. 
The Minister interjects and mentions fluoride. That is my next point. Some people in the community do not seem to realise that there is no such thing as zero risk, and that a risk is involved in everything. This is depressing to me. In some ways it is a pity that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  who presented the ministerial statement on the Australian Broadcasting Commission is not now in the chamber because the ABC is one of the organisations which tends to sensationalise things at the present time. I refer to its rather disgraceful anti-fluoride segment which appeared on  Four Corners  a few weeks ago. On the other hand, of course, the defenders of the chemical industry will defend almost anything. They are employed by the chemical industry; they have a job to do. The chemical industry depends on the sale of particular substances. Those people try to suppress any sort of information which suggests that one of their substances or by-products can cause harm to human beings. We are all aware, in retrospect, that there are substances which, even in very small quantities, are extremely dangerous. There is no point going over the story of Thalidomide again. We are all now aware that those sorts of substances exist and that small quantities can cause terrible things. 
It is important that the Minister should look at some of the people who are members of the National Health and Medical Research Council- some of the people who are working for the Government. My attention has been drawn to an article in a newspaper which I do not necessarily hold up as being non-sensationalist. I refer to the issue of the  Nation Review  for the week ending 24 May, which is probably the last issue. It contains an article from Helen Ester in Canberra. I do not normally read the newspaper these days. The article attacks  Mr J.  T. Snelson, who is the Federal Government's pesticides coordinator. If the allegations in this article are true I emphasise that  Mr Snelson  represents the other point of view. It should not be his job to do so. Obviously he has been appointed by the Government to look into the risks of the use of pesticides. 
I am sure that the Minister for Health would not like his family, his kids or anybody else for that matter to be at risk and to be exposed to such substances. I certainly do not. One of the difficulties that we have is to decide the point at which the risk becomes unacceptable and to whom to give the benefit of the doubt. I think that that is one of the great difficulties about this matter. It is one of my worries in relation to the National Health and Medical Research Council and particularly the committee dealing with this substance. I do not want to attack specific people. But because  Dr Langsford  was quoted on the  AM  program this morning, I would like to read the statement that he made on 27 March. He stated: 
The Council - 
He is referring to the NHMRC- 
Has examined all the evidence available to us - 
He is talking about 2,4,5-T- 
All the scientific evidence including the latest studies done in the United States and we can find no substantiated scientific basis for any causal link between the use of this herbicide and an excess occurrence of spontaneous abortion or human birth defects. 
The interviewer asked: 
Have your findings been based on statistics? 

 Dr Langsford answered: 
No our findings have been based on thorough examination of all the available scientific experiments that have been done and the clinical studies and our evaluation of all the work that is available to us. 
Obviously, the paper that is referred to in today's AM program the socalled Field study by  Dr Barbara  Field appears to have been a statistical study. I obviously cannot vouch for its accuracy or its contents. I am not even aware of them. But some reputable people, including  Dr Field  and Professor Charles Kerr, apparently put their names to a study which suggested that there is a risk involved in the use of this herbicide. So I think it is important for us to look at the study. 
We became reasonably excited looking at the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has reminded me of it when we were debating the abortion issue a few weeks ago in this House. I think that we became justifiably excited, especially when one considers that a human being is involved from the beginning. We are also dealing now with the foetus. If there is a chemical substance which causes abortions or in some ways I think this is even worse causes very severe birth defects, such as spina bifida, we need to be extremely careful when dealing with it. I argue that when we are dealing with these substances the benefit of the doubt ought to be given to the population at large and not to the chemical industry. In some ways, I think the United States of America is doing better than Australia in that the United States Federal Government imposes much tougher restrictions. It has suspended the use of 2,4,5-T. In a year or two it may be shown that that action was not justified and that the chemical industry has lost a lot of money. It may be that the Government ought to have the responsibility of reimbursing the chemical industry if that is found to be the case later. But I think that when we are dealing with human lives, human problems and very severe illnesses, the benefit of the doubt ought to be given to humanity. 
I am not a lawyer but I remember the argument which usually occurs in civil cases and criminal cases on the question of the balance of probabilities and insisting on proof beyond reasonable doubt. I think it is important when dealing with these sorts of matters that we do not insist on proof beyond reasonable doubt because we will come to regret it at a later stage if we do in many cases. I appeal to the Minister again to put a rocket under the NHMRC committee to consider the latest report. It seems silly that we have to postpone this consideration from month to month. The NHMRC has sixmonthly meetings on other issues which are not urgent. This is an urgent matter. If there is any significant doubt about the use of these substances, they ought to be suspended. I appeal to the House and those honourable members who have some influence with the Minister to persuade him to do this. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 March 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that aircraft quarantine staff are concerned that his Department has failed to keep them informed of serious overseas disease outbreaks such as foot and mouth disease. 
If so, will this complacency have disastrous consequences for Australia 's primary producers. 
I must say that I feel sorry for the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who had to introduce this statement tonight, even though he did put in about six pages of padding with the bad news to make up a total of 1 1 pages. When the last lot of changes were announced in the Budget last August, the Minister was told about them four or five days before they were introduced and was told that they were insisted on by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  This time the Minister did not get that much notice because he was overseas. It is depressing for the Minister. It only emphasises what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out earlier, that this Government is completely incompetent. We have a reasonably efficient and certainly knowledgeable Department of Health. We have the facilities and we have the individuals who know what it is all about. Yet this Government makes decisions, ignoring all that available information. 
This is the fifth very major change to health insurance in three years. As I have said before, instability has become the curse of the Australian health insurance system. There is a complete and continuing process of change. Nobody knows what is going on; the Minister is not aware of what is happening. On 24 May 1978- exactly one year ago- the Minister stated in this House: 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
At the time the House was debating a paper on paying for health care. Very significant changes were announced less than three months from that day. In August of last year the Minister introduced the changes which we are knocking over again today. It is not seven months since the changes were introduced, on 1 November, and now the Government is again introducing changes. It will be seven months tomorrow week since these changes were brought into operation. The Minister for Health is continuously giving advice, but one cannot come to any intelligent decisions as to what course the payment and funding of the Australian health system should take without giving it a chance to work, without seeing how many people want to do this and what effect it has to pay 40 per cent and the first $20. The Minister does not get a chance. This Government does not give him a chance to do any of those sorts of things. I think it is quite ridiculous. This is the ninth occasion on which the House is amending the National Health Act and the seventh occasion on which it has amended the Health Insurance Act in about 2% years. This is a ridiculous way of dealing with health insurance. In his statement the Minister states: 
Perhaps the single most important measure announced tonight, at least in terms of potential cost-saving in the nottoodistant future, has been the Government's plan to establish a national inquiry to examine the efficiency and administration of hospitals throughout Australia. 
I might agree with him, if it is a reasonable inquiry. But I am sure it will not in any way influence this Government's decision. That is the depressing thing. This Government- I exempt the Minister from this pejorative statement- will make decisions on the running of hospitals, in regard to how much money to be given to hospitals and what proportion of the total health budget should be given to hospitals, irrespective of the decisions of that inquiry. All the previous inquiries have been ignored. Today the Minister tabled a report on the Rationalisation of Hospital Facilities and Services and of Proposed New Charges- A Discussion Paper. Why is the Government so scared? I will also criticise the Minister. Why is he so scared of having discussion? It is a discussion paper; it is called a discussion paper. Yet, I obtained it about a month ago with a covering letter dated 20 April which the Minister had written. It was personally written to  Mr Bruce  J. McDonald, M.P.,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales. It is endorsed 'personal and confidential'. He enclosed a copy of this discussion paper and states: 
I thought it was necessary to give the States some time to comment on a report on hospital rationalisation and services which I forwarded to all Health Ministers throughout the Commonwealth. I enclose a copy of that report for your very confidential examination and consideration. The State Ministers have had copies of this report for at least six weeks, and it is to their credit that the report has not been leaked to the media. 
A discussion paper should not be leaked to anybody. What is the point of having a discussion paper? Later in the same letter to the Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party of New South Wales the Minister states: 
Although I have sent you a copy of the Report on Rationalisation of Hospital Facilities and Services and on Proposed New Charges, I must ask you to treat this document as a highly confidential one, and I would be very disappointed if the document was, in fact leaked to the press. It would not hurt the NSW Government; it would only do us damage. 
I hope it does, but I do not really see that it will do anybody any damage because it is a fairly rational discussion paper. 
Why did the Minister say: 'It would not hurt the New South Wales Government; it would only do us damage'? It does not hurt anybody to have an intelligent and rational discussion. Why can we not have an intelligent discussion as to the pros and cons as to what can be done about it? As I said earlier, what is the point of having that sort of an inquiry if the Minister or the Government is going to ignore the report of that inquiry and ignore the result of that inquiry. 
The Minister today quite clearly threatened the States. He talked about the expiry of the hospital cost sharing agreement in 1980. He is obviously telling the States that they have to toe the line, otherwise there might not be any money for them at all. I suppose the Commonwealth Government can refuse to contribute any money to the States for their hospital system, but what is the point of threatening them on that basis? Surely the whole point of this report is to come to some intelligent agreement with the States as to how some money can be saved and so on. 
I do not want to go into a discussion on this report because since it was tabled tonight I hope time will be made available to discuss it at a later stage. In my other capacity as the shadow Minister for Veterans' Affairs, I draw the attention of people to the proposals to reduce the number of occupied-bed days in repatriation hospitals. The proposition is that they be reduced to the same number as in recognised hospitals, that is, by at least 12 per cent over the next four years. We are talking about a reduction in bed days from this year's estimated figure of 870,000 to 766,000. That is a drop of 104,000 over the next four years. I think that one of the important points to remember- I do not expect the Minister necessarily to have thought of it, but one would have hoped that the people who prepared the report would have thought of it- is that the estimate from the Department of Veterans' Affairs and from other people who are interested in veterans' affairs is that the usage of hospital beds by repatriation patients will go up. They are reaching an age when people spend more time in hospital. The Second World War veterans are now reaching ages of 55 plus. Obviously a much larger amount of their time is likely to be spent in hospital. I hope that the Returned Services League and similar organisations will take a fairly aggressive stance with the Minister on this particular point. I seem to remember that there was a previous report from the Department of Veterans Affairs which suggested that the peak of usage of the health and hospital facilities of the Department would be about 1990. So the Minister will be lucky if he can keep the occupied bed days in repatriation hospitals at 1 ,870 for the next 10 years, let alone achieve a very significant reduction. 
Just before I come to the actual proposals, I would like to make one further point. In introducing these changes and other changes tonight, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made the following statement: 
There are already clear signs that the policies that the Government have been following over the last three years are working. 
Yet one of the main points he was talking about tonight was the health insurance system. There have been, as I have said earlier, nine changes to the National Health Act. There have been five very significant and major changes to the health insurance system since this Government came into office. How can the Treasurer have the hide to come into this House and say that the policies the Government has been following over the past three years are working? If they are working, why keep on changing them? It just seems pointless. It almost seems superfluous to emphasise that the Minister and the Minister's advisers in repeated statements to this House and the Australian people in general who are interested in the payment for health care have repeatedly said- other organisations have talked about itthat we need more data; that we need more facts; that we need to allow things to go on for a little longer in a particular way before we can change them. Towards the end of last year when we were debating changes, the Australian Medical Association said, amongst other things: 
The debate is catalysed by irregular but frequent changes to health financing arrangements by the Commonwealth Government of the time, sometimes for reasons of community health and welfare and sometimes to help balance the books. It's time we sat back and had a calmer look at what's going on. 
I am sure that deep down the Minister agrees with the AMA. I agree with the Minister that somewhere or other we have all got to pay for the costs of health care. Let us at least spend it on health care. It is paid for either by the Government or by individuals via health funds, or directly. There are significant extra costs every time the system is changed. There has to be a new public relations campaign telling people what to do. It is all right for John Galway. I do not know how much influence he has in the Government parties. It is certainly in his interests and it is in the interests of many of the media to have these changes because they get the advertisements and they get paid for running them. It is surely not in the interests of the Australian population which has to pay for them. I am sure that even the voluntary funds would be much happier if the Government left them alone. I am not a great friend of the funds, but I am sure they would be much happier if the Government gave them a go and said to them: 'Let us try to work this out. It is going to be in for the next 18 months or the next two years at least. We will have a look and see what happens'. The appendix to the paper on health care which the Minister tabled in this House said, amongst other things: 
A3.1 There is very little analysis available in Australia or elsewhere, to tell us what possible effects different health insurance proposals would have on costs, on our usage of health care, on the available supply of beds and doctors or on our 'health'. Thus the first gap is a detailed analysis of each proposal to enable policymakers to make informed choices. They should know: how those arrangements increase or decrease the use of different services or the quality of the services provided; and how the use of these services ultimately affects 'health '. 
A3.2 We do not have any comprehensive data to tell us what is the 'best' type of health insurance system, and the best' possible method of paying doctors, and the 'best' method of financing hospitals and other community health services. A health insurance project would seek and analyse the needed data on all three aspects. 
The facts are not available; yet the Minister is changing the whole set-up here today for the purpose of saving $200m in the operation of the health insurance scheme. I come back to the specific results of the measures proposed tonight, when they come into force on 1 September of this year. The change will increase the number of persons ignoring early symptoms, when treatment may be relatively cheap. It will increase medical insurance costs for those still covered and it will generally increase the consumer price index when inflation is already increasing rapidly. Those are the three points that are quite significant The reason why it will increase the number of persons ignoring early symptoms when treatment may be relatively cheap is that we are no longer contributing anything. When I say 'we' I mean the Commonwealth Government is not. The Commonwealth Government will no longer contribute funds from taxation revenue to those who are seeking relatively cheap advice from general practitioners. 
Many relatively poor people, or people who are not really poor but who may not be terribly keen on spending money which they will not get back, will ignore the early symptoms of respiratory diseases in their children. If children have asthma- I suppose that is one of the commonest respiratory illnesses- or some other recurrent respiratory illness, it will be ignored. Because the mother will not be able to get a refund on her doctor's fees or a significant subsidy from the Government in one form or another, she will say that it is not worth while paying $9 if the child only has a cough. If there is a delay before treatment is sought we will certainly have a significantly greater number of children with bronchiectasis, et cetera. 
The long term costs to the community are quite significant. They probably cancel out the savings that will be obtained in the first instance. The consumer price index in the last December quarter would have increased by 3.8 per cent, giving an annual rate of 15.2 per cent, but for the Government's decision to subsidise medical costs. The Government is always terribly keen on tossing annual rates of inflation around. We would have had an annual inflation rate of 15.2 per cent calculated on the December quarter of 1 978 if it had not been for the Government 's decision to subsidise medical costs from 1 November last year. That may or may not have been an intelligent decision. 
The withdraw of the subsidy plus the increase in charges for doctor of choice and private hospital beds will increase the living costs for most people. It will increase the consumer price index by about 1.5 per cent. This will be multiplied and passed on in wage and salary rises. The cost of other services and goods will increase. Whatever benefits were obtained by the action of last November will be reversed. We also have to consider the human cost involved. 
The increased cost of medical insurance will be $2.50 per week according to the Minister, and he does not like to guarantee the figure. Hospital insurance rates will rise by about $1, $1.20 or $1.30 a week. This amounts to a total increase of nearly $4 a week for those taking out insurance. That is a huge amount of money. I still have reservations about people taking 'advantage' of that sort of medical insurance. I am sure most people will be better off not taking any medical insurance. I agree with the Minister that people have to look at all the aspects and make thenown decisions. 
There has been a fair bit of hospital knocking lately. Suddenly everybody is keen to knock hospitals. I am looking forward to next Friday week, when the Minister has agreed to meet a deputation of people who work in Sydney hospitals. The deputation will be led by Ray Cook, the Secretary of the Health and Research Employees Association in New South Wales. A reduction of $200m in the Commonwealth's contribution to hospitals will mean the loss of about 18,000 jobs. That is a hell of a lot of jobs. We are already dealing with peak unemployment when we compare a particular month this year with the same month in another year. I have been assured by the State Minister for Health in New South Wales that the proposed reduction there will amount to $63m and that this will lead to a loss of about 5,000 jobs in that State. 
But the Minister was talking about $200m tonight. It appears that the Minister has, in effect, decided on a figure. I hope he has not. It may be that I and some other people the Minister will be meeting next Friday will be able to pursuade him. 
-I sincerely hope that he will. It is one of the difficulties. There is probably a wastage of money in hospitals. Let us face it, at the present time there is a very high labour content in expenditure on hospitals. Some money will be saved in the long run by employing people. If those sorts of jobs are eliminated the people cannot get other occupations. They finish up on the dole and that, in turn, decreases the amount of money that is spent in the Australian community. This still causes more unemployment. Over the last few years many people have been knocking hospitals. It has been an easy way to talk about things. 
-No, I agree that they are not sacred citadels. I have often criticised hospitals because they, in many cases, exist as a sort of private workshop for the medical profession to make a lot of money by using the facilities and funds provided by the State. At the same time, we have to look at the people who are working in those hospitals. I am sure the Minister himself, being a member for a country area, is aware that in many country towns the hospital is quite a significant economic factor. A significant number of people work in these hospitals. The hospitals provide other secondary employment by buying things in the town. We should not just eliminate all those hospitals. Maybe we should convert some of the hospitals, as I think it is suggested in the paper, into institutions which, in effect, are nursing homes. We should look after the people who are working in those institutions. We should not fall for the easy way out and criticise hospitals and say: 'Well, too much money is spent on hospitals; we will spend money in community health areas'. 
I support community health expenditure. I think in the long run it will save the community money, but it is not certain as yet. We have to be careful we are not 'snowed', if that is the right word, by people who are much better at presenting a case than the relatively unskilled people working in hospitals. We should ensure that we do not just finish up transferring jobs from relatively unskilled people to what are often relatively well off middle class people working in community health such as doctors' wives. My wife worked in such a place so I am qualified to make that sort of statement. These people are prepared to go back to work and offer their services and become part of the caring profession. I think they do an excellent job. Do not let us kid ourselves that the people involved in defending community health and involved in criticising hospitals have not got an axe to grind. I think as politicians we should be aware that when people are lobbying us there is a reason for it. They will always say they are doing it for their patients if they are involved in the caring profession. If they are lawyers, they say they are doing it for their clients. If they are politicians, they say they ar doing it for their constituents. We also know their attitude will be coloured by the benefits that are involved as far as they themselves are concerned. I appeal to the Minister to look at this before he starts putting the knife into the money available for the public hospital system in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. (Debate (on motion by  Mr Falconer)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
What is the membership of the subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council on health risks associated with exposure to asbestos and what are the qualifications of the members. 
-The question we are discussing today is of major concern not only to the Opposition but also to everybody in this country. The Government's arbitrary decisions, announced last Thursday, will increase the confusion that already exists and heighten the inequality in relation to the provision of health services and at the same time cause more unemployment and inflation. As I said on Thursday night when these changes were announced, I feel sorry for the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  I feel sorry also for the people of Australia, because unless we make an intelligent attempt at discussing rationally the matter of improving health care services, unless we come to intelligent decisions which result in helping those people in the community who most need help and unless we give assistance to those areas of health care which most need help from governments, we will not have a good health service. In the process we will cause damage to people both from a health point of view and an economic point of view. 
It is depressing to me that on an important issue such as health the Minister for Health is ignored and his Department is ignored. Last Thursday the Minister pointed to the high proportion of the total Budget which is spent on health. It may be recalled that on 24 May last year- exactly one year to the day before the changes were announced last week- the Minister made a statement in which he said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
The reason the Minister made that statement following some changes that had been made- they were the third lot of major changes made by the Government since it came to power- was that it was silly to keep on jumping from one point to another without knowing what the effect of those changes would be. We all know that about five days before the Budget was introduced in August last year the Minister was informed by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet that huge changes were being introduced- changes which in a full financial year were estimated by the Government to cost $62 1 m. 
The only reason for introducing those changes was to fiddle with the consumer price index. I think the Government was successful in fiddling with the consumer price index because, although the index increased by 2.3 per cent for the last December quarter, if one ignored the changes in relation to health insurance the real figure would have been 3.8 per cent. It is interesting to note that the Government was perfectly happy to accept a 1.5 per cent reduction in the consumer price index in the December quarter of last year but that it is already foreshadowing the argument that an increase of approximately 1.5 per cent in the consumer price index arising from the changes which are being proposed now and which come into force on 1 September should be ignored by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Hopefully the Arbitration Commission will not accept that proposition. 
The Minister introduced that legislation last year on the same night in August on which the Budget was introduced. This year he went on a trip overseas to attend the World Health Organisation meeting. I do not say that he should not have attended that meeting but, if he had been here, he might have been able to put a greater input into the statement he made last week. He came back on Monday and he was presented with a new plan which represented a completely changed proposition in regard to the funding of both medical and hospital services. In effect he was told that approximately $450m would be saved by this proposition. Again I am not necessarily arguing that it is not possible to save approximately $400m out of a huge health budget. I am arguing that the advisers to the Department of Health and the people who are informed in this area should be able to make a greater input into it. These people have not been able to do anything when the funding was increased last year by $600m and when it was decreased now by $400m. 
I am pleased to see in the House today the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Expenditure, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I have noted that at least when he is chairing that Committee he argues in favour of rational decision making by this Parliament in regard to expenditure matters. The last two major changes to health expenditure have not been made on a rational basis. Neither the increase nor the decrease was made on a rational basis. It was ironic that last Thursday when the Minister announced the very significant changes to the hospital system he took the opportunity during his speech to table a discussion paper which is quite a good one but which is already completely out of date. That discussion paper is entitled: 'A Report on Rationalisation of Hospital Facilities and Services and on Proposed New Charges'. I refer the House to Table 2 which appears on page 25 and to Table 3 which appears on page 26 of that discussion paper. I hope that those honourable members who are interested in this matter will examine those tables. I seek leave to incorporate those two tables in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905281_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905281_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

* Adjusted to allow for Aboriginal population having three times average utilisation. 

<graphic href="114131197905281_14_2.jpg"></graphic>

Table 2 shows that the proposal by the Commonwealth Government was for a reduction of occupied bed days per 1,000 of population from the current estimate of 1,100 in four equal annual steps in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania and for different steps to be taken in the other States. I think that they were reasonable propositions. The hospital system could live with them. However, in Table 3 one sees that the total savings over four years- I emphasise that these savings are over four years, increasing from $12. 3m during the first year to $45. 5m in the final year of the four year system- came to $ 1 14m. I think that that was a rational proposal. But what happened? The Minister had to announce in the same speech that, in fact, $200mwhich is twice as much- would be taken out of the hospital system in one year, which would be the first year of the operation of the proposal. 
This Government talks about federalism and about co-operation with the States. There is no sign of that co-operation taking place. Arbitrary decisions are made and imposed on the States. 
Usually a large number of back benchers are not happy when taxation is increased and when services are reduced. It is interesting to note that there seems to be a move by the back bench of this Government to put pressure on the Government to be tougher. I notice that those back benchers include the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard),  the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred),  the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short),  the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  These members asked the Government to produce a tough Budget. They wanted higher and not lower tax payments. They wanted fewer benefits. They wanted less expenditure on health, education and on social services. It is remarkable that the people who represent those seats are so completely out of touch. The seats that I mentioned are generally what I would describe politically as swinging seats. Yet those honourable members are prepared to say that there ought to be higher taxation and that fewer services ought to be provided. 
Only yesterday,  Mr Mason,  the Leader of the Liberal Party and Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales, stated his position quite clearly. I think he stated the Liberal Party's position quite clearly. He argued in favour of higher taxation and lower health, education and social service benefits. Those back benchers whom I have mentioned- I hope they can justify this to their electorates- argued in favour of those things, and they got them. Following the changes announced last Thursday the average weekly earner will pay an extra $6 a week or more in taxation. That is he will have to pay $6 a week more than he would have had to pay had the Government not introduced those changes. The average weekly earner will have to pay an extra $4 a week for health care, either in the form of insurance or in the form of carrying a risk for himself and his family. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  to whom I unkindly referred the other day as the Minister for Unemployment- I think I was justified in calling him that- told us over the weekend that the $200m cut in expenditure on hospitals would not cause any loss of jobs. That is a ridiculous proposition. Seventy per cent of all hospital costs are immediately salaries and wages. 
If expenditure on hospitals is cut by $200m the amount of employment will be cut. There will be 18,000 fewer jobs directly in the hospital system. There is also a multiplier effect, as honourable members undoubtedly know, especially in country towns. If hospitals go, if wards close and if employment goes in a country town, it goes not only for those people who are directly employed by the hospital, but also for those people who live on the earnings of those who are employed in the hospitals. I am surprised that the Minister for Health, who represents a country electorate, proposed for New South Wales a huge cut in hospitals expenditure. Varying amounts have been cited. The figure, which I am told is the accurate figure, represents a cut of $116m on expenditure in country hospitals. Obviously country hospitals will have to be closed, including some hospitals in the electorate of the Minister. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  is one of those people who are keen on reducing services and increasing taxation. He says that that is the right way to go about curing inflation. I wonder how the people in his electorate will feel about that? 
In New South Wales hospitals the average ratio of private to public patients is 60/40. There are 60 per cent so-called private patients where the doctor immediately benefits by having that patient in hospital and 40 per cent public patients. At the Bega District Hospital which is a public hospital 95 per cent of the patients are private patients. The New South Wales Government was asked to spend approximately $2m extra to redevelop the Bega District Hospital, which is really acting as a private source of income for the doctors of that particular area. I suppose one can admire the moral courage which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro has shown in saying that, firstly, the people of Eden-Monaro ought to pay higher taxes and, secondly, no such services ought to be provided for the people of Eden-Monaro. I just wonder what will happen in Eden-Monaro when the people realise- I hope they will realise- that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is one of the leaders of that particular group. 
I know I have very little speaking time left today, but let me come back to the propositions that are being introduced as far as individuals are concerned regarding health insurance. I can only recommend very strongly an article which was published in yesterday's  National Times.  I am not usually an avid supporter of that newspaper. On page 9 there was an article by Meryl Constance. I do not know whether that is a he or a she. It is a very interesting and intelligent article. I can strongly recommend it. Meryl Constance understands what the situation is all about and points out the huge increases that people will be liable for and how debatable it is as to what their decision ought to be. I do not want to get into an argument now as to whether people ought to take out health insurance. It is ridiculous for a government which claims to be a low tax government to introduce all these cuts and yet to be a high tax government. Let us remember that Pay-as-you-earn taxation was $7,000m in 1975-76 when we were last in power. In the current year the amount is up to $ 10,341m which the Government collects in taxes from individuals. That is an increase of 47.3 per cent. We heard the Prime Minister at Question Time today talk about how much more we would have paid under a Labor Government. We would have paid less. We are paying 47.3 per cent more on pay-as-you-earn taxation. That amount is being paid by the wage and salary earners of Australia. That is what this Government ought to be looking at. Yet it is introducing measures at the present time which will still significantly increase this amount. 
-I would like to refer to proposed new section 2 19B which is set out in clause 8 of the Customs Amendment Bill 1979. The question that worries me is one which I came across while I was sitting on the legislation committee. I do not think we have moved amendments in relation to it. Sub-section ( 5 ) of proposed new section 2 1 9b reads: 
Where, upon receipt by the Minister of a request by the Comptroller for the issue of a warrant - 
We are talking about a judge-  under this section authorizing the use of a listening device in relation to a particular person . . . 
We can put in a listening device to record words and to ensure that:   . . words spoken by or to that person will ... assist officers of Customs in, or in connection with- 
inquiries that are being made in relation to a narcotics offence . . . 
The point that worries me is a most obvious one. I think I raised it while the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was a visitor at the legislation committee meeting. Let us assume that  Mr A  is a person suspected of a narcotics ooffence. We also know that  Mr A  usually uses a particular barrister or solicitor to give him legal advice. It would then be reasonable for the narcotics agents to argue that if they put a listening device onto the telephone or into the consulting room- whatever it is called in the case of a lawyer- they would get some information of benefit to them for the purposes of obtaining a conviction. As I understand it, that would then overrule any suggestion of a special relationship between a lawyer and his client. Possibly we might be prepared to justify this on the basis of narcotics inquiries, but I am not sure that we should. 
Let us assume for the purpose of this argument that we are justifying it on the basis of narcotics inquiries. We have a listening device installed in a lawyer's office and we can use any information obtained on that listening device. Clause 219G states that we can use that information provided it is information which relates or appears to relate to the commission or intended commission of an offence against the law of the Commonwealth, being an offence 'punishable by imprisonment for life or for a period or maximum period of not less than 3 years'. Again, for the purpose of preventing that offence I am prepared to argue that maybe it ought to be possible for lawyers' telephone lines, et cetera, to be bugged. I am not even sure whether I sustain that argument. But if we do this for the purposes of actually obtaining a conviction, I think we are getting into very difficult territory. 
Let us assume that a particular person is accused of commiting murder or manslaughter. That is a difficult question legally. Let us suppose that the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  is that person's solicitor and the honourable member for Lowe is also the legal adviser of somebody suspected of having committed a narcotics offence. A bug has been placed in his office or on his telephone line and he discusses the question of whether that particular person ought to plead guilty to manslaughter, guilty to murder, not guilty to either of them or whatever. I am sure that lawyers can think of many better examples than those of which I am thinking. 
I have a reservation about the Crown being entitled to produce that evidence as evidence against a person who has nothing to do with a narcotics offence. Let us emphasise this aspect. The only connection between him and the narcotics offence is that he shares the same solicitor as the suspected narcotics trafficker. It is a question that I think this House ought to think about in much more detail before we are prepared to agree to it. I am obviously not a lawyer but I understand that in the United States of America, the Supreme Court has ruled very strictly on this question. If a warrant is issued for a particular purpose, information which is obtained as a result of that warrant cannot be used for any other purpose. I hope that before this Bill goes to the Senate it may be possible for the Government or the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to think of some amendment which would at least prevent the breach of the client-lawyer relationship which seems to be possible under the legislation we are discussing at the present time. 
-I do not want to detain the House, but I certainly agree basically with what the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has just said. I realise that for political reasons and probably for practical reasons, if this legislation is to be amended the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has to reply mainly to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and to other people on his side of the House because we do not have the numbers to do much about the matter. However, I do hope that now that the right honourable member for Lowe has again spoken on this matter and now that the honourable member for Sturt has raised the same question that I have raised, the Minister will go into some detail as to why the Government considers it important to have that proposed new section in the legislation. That is what I want to know. Why is it considered important by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to make available to State criminal investigation branches evidence, for example, collected by a listening device in a lawyer's office. I suppose that as an ordinary concerned citizen, the Minister might argue that that ought to be the case, but I cannot for the life of me see why there should not be put into the Act, as suggested by the honourable member for Sturt, the fact that some question of privilege remains. I hope that the Minister, when he replies in this debate, will come to that point. 
In so doing, I think that the Minister will probably mention the fact that we are talking about telephone tapping and this Bill does not deal with telephone tapping. But I do not think that that is terribly relevant because we are talking about listening devices. I know that next week we will be debating the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill, but I am not completely convinced that proposed new section 219a(1), which covers listening devices, really covers telephones. It states:  listening device' means any instrument, device or equipment capable of being used, whether alone or in conjunction with any other instrument, device or equipment, to record or listen to spoken words; 
I would have thought that putting a tap on a telephone would be covered by this legislation, unless there were some specific reason under some other legislation which excludes telephones from this Bill. 
The important thing I should like to hear from the Minister to satisfy myself and, I would hope, to satisfy many other people in this House, is his rationale, his justification for not saying that notwithstanding anything contained in this legislation, information which would normally be privileged will remain privileged when it does not apply to matters such as narcotic offences, if indeed the question of privilege is to be disregarded in relation to narcotic offences. I understand from a private conversation that I had with the Minister- this particular aspect is not confidential- that the Minister argues that the lawyer will not be called to give evidence. I do not know whether that is a legal opinion that the Minister has obtained. But let us assume that the lawyer has been heard to give certain advice to a client. That lawyer cannot be called, cannot be forced to give information to a court as a Crown witness. But the transcript or the recording of the information that has been gained from the tap will in fact be available for the purpose of prosecution. That is really cutting it very fine, is it not? Once we say that we are going to plant a listening device in a lawyer's office, then use as evidence against the accused whatever he said to his lawyer or whatever the lawyer said to him, while at the same time we say that the lawyer cannot be called to give evidence, we are cutting it very fine. As I said earlier, I do not want to prolong the discussion on this matter, but I do hope that the Minister will give us some explanation as to why he considers it to be important, firstly, to have proposed new section 219g in that form and why he cannot put in some provision which, in effect, re-establishes privilege for conversations which normally would be privileged in a court of law. 
-Firstly, I would like to support the proposition put by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  Secondly, I would like to record in  Hansard,  hopefully for the benefit of senators who will be considering this Bill at some later stage, the opinion that they ought to carefully look at the previous amendment which was defeated and the way it was defeated. It was defeated without appropriate discussion. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and I were unable to speak to it. I hope that honourable senators, who possibly will deal with this legislation at a different time of the day, will realise that this is not a party matter and that it is an important issue. I would again like to raise a relevant point. 
I first raised the point with the legislation committee. Under this Bill a listening device could be placed anywhere as long as there was some vague connection with a person suspected of being involved in a narcotics offence. It is obvious that the listening device could be located in such a place where normal conversation would be privileged. It can involve a lawyer, a doctor, a wife or a confessional- it does not matter. Not only can the listening device be placed in such a location but also what is recorded can then be used as evidence in prosecutions which have nothing to do with the narcotics offence. Let me emphasise that point. Let us assume that we all agree that privilege ought to be waived for narcotic offences because they involve heinous crimes interfering with that privilege. Are we really saying that the privilege which has been accepted in our law ought to be waived for all other offences which are incidental? It could be that a judge is satisfied that  Mr A  is likely to commit or has committed a narcotics offence.  Mr A  may have a solicitor- it could be the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)-  who is a perfectly honest solicitor and who has many other clients. A listening device could be placed in his office and a recording made of certain advice given by him or obtained by him in a privileged situation- I emphasise this aspect- on some other crime or alleged crime. Such information could be used in evidence and no privilege would be attached to it. 
It may be suspected that a drug addict will give certain information to a medical practitioner. It may be that the person concerned is not only a trafficker but also an addict. Therefore he has a certain relationship with a particular medical practitioner. A listening device could be placed in the surgery or telephone of that doctor. The doctor may also get information dealing with, let us say, a termination of pregnancy which may not be considered to be legal in his State but certainly would be considered to be legal in certain States of Australia'. A person other than the person in relation to whom the listening device has been placed may give certain evidence to a doctor. The evidence which has been obtained because the narcotics agents were looking for evidence dealing with a narcotics offence can be used to prosecute the woman and the doctor for a completely different offence. I ask members of this House and especially members of the Senate to look at this matter. It is depressing to think that it is proposed to allow privilege to be used in this way. 
It may be that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and his Department will be very careful about these matters, but I point out that the Minister said in his second reading speech that commercial quantities were one thousand times the traffickable quantity. Whilst I was doodling away in the legislation committee I realised that in the case of two substances, one of which was lysergic acid, the factor was one hundred thousand and not one thousand. I pointed this out to the Minister. The Minister consulted his departmental advisers and then said that that was not the view of his Department. It is not a question of views; it is a question of saying whether two milligrams becomes 0.2 of a kilogram, which is 200 grams, by a factor of 1,000 or a factor of 100,000. It is quite obvious that I was right and the Minister, even after an hour's consultation with the Department, consulting apparently with the analysts and everybody else, was still not prepared to say that I was right. It seems so terribly obvious and anybody who works with decimals ought to be able to see it. I would not be surprised if the Metric Conversion Board is under the control of the Minister. The mistake was that the decimal point was placed two places further to the left than it should have been. What kind of a Minister and what kind of department do we have? We are relying on those sorts of people. We are talking about 0.2 of a kilogram. They do not have even a clue about how to multiply by a thousand, a hundred thousand or any other figure, yet we rely to them to give us undertakings on how evidence will be used in cases where people can go to gaol for many years. 
I appeal to the Minister and more importantly, because the Minister obviously has made up his mind or he has his riding instructions for tonight, I appeal to senators who might read the  Hansard  record of this debate before this legislation is debated in the Senate to have a good look as this completely new concept, as I understand it, which is being introduced in this legislation. The honourable member for Denison by nodding his head has indicated his support for my claim that this is a completely new concept. With this legislation we are wiping out privilege. All I am asking the Minister to say is that privilege ought to be maintained. I can see an argument that if someone finds out facts which might help to prevent the commission of a crime, he ought to pass on that information. If someone obtains facts incidentally which might even lead to the solution of a crime, maybe he ought to pass that on. But actually to use  those facts  which have been obtained in such a way, which normally would make the information privileged information, for the purpose of prosecution I think is completely wrong. I am not a lawyer, but to me to do that is completely contrary to the whole concept of privilege. I therefore ask the House to look at these issues in some detail before honourable members just vote according to whether they are on the Government side of the House. 
I express some reservations about the compromise amendment which is being moved in the light of the information given to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  Whilst we have to accept the amendment because the Government has the numbers, I would have thought that honourable members on the other side of the House would not be completely happy about it. The Government is saying that a person who has a fair number of duties shall be satisfied- without having had discussions with other people because of the information having been given on a confidential basis- with the implementation of this aspect of the legislation. All sorts of points arise. Instead of having a coalition government with one party in opposition, the situation could arise where we have a second opposition party which may have very strong feelings on this matter and which would not get any information. 
I question the principle of the matter. All that will happen is that that information will be given to the Leader of the Opposition on a confidential basis. Let us assume that he is not satisfied with the information and he decides that the narcotics division is exceeding its powers. What does the Leader of the Opposition do with the confidential information? I think that in a way he can be stopped from doing anything by it being said to him: 'We are giving you this information on a confidential basis; therefore you cannot raise it in this House or anywhere else.' In theory the House would be satisfied because somebody on the Opposition side has been given the information. To me this is an unsatisfactory way in which to deal with the situation. In theory the Leader of the Opposition may have an attitude different from that of a significant number of honourable members in this House regarding civil liberties. Obviously I am not suggesting that this is the case at the present time but it is an issue that could easily arise. 
The main point that worries me is this: On what basis is information on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation given to the Leader of the Opposition? As I understand the position the Leader of the Opposition cannot use such information. So, regardless of whether he is satisfied or dissatisfied with it, there is nothing he can do about it. In some ways everybody else is stopped from arguing about it because the reply by the Executive will be: 'The information has been given to the Leader of the Opposition but he has done nothing about it. ' But what can he do about it? I realise that nothing is going to be done about this matter tonight. I hope that when the Government senators review this legislation they will see whether giving this information to the Leader of the Opposition- and only the Leader of the Opposition- on a confidential basis is a satisfactory way in which to deal with this aspect. 
-I support the amendments moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  It appears to me that the aim of proposed new section 243D is really to give the legislation constitutional validity. The Government wants to be able to argue that narcotic substances have been imported but does not want to be required to prove it. The onus of proof is to be reversed. The Government will have a say on the whole issue only if narcotic substances have been imported. If the drugs have not been imported the Government does not have any power. There are some lawyers in this House. Obviously I am not one of them. I would like somebody to point out to the House where the onus of proof would lie if somebody were convicted on such a charge and he then took his case to the High Court on the basis that the narcotics concerned were not imported. Would it lie on the Government to prove to the High Court that it was entitled to do whatever it did- confiscate money, et cetera- because the narcotics were imported? Is the onus of proof on the appellant to the High Court to show that the goods were not imported? 
Is that so only because of this legislation, or is it so in any case? Apparently the legal adviser to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  disagrees. I think my point is relevant. I hope somebody will clear it up. Maybe the Minister will consult with his legal advisers to find out what the actual position will be. Provided the onus of proof will still be on the Government- in other words, the Government or the Crown will still have to prove to the High Court that the goods were imported and therefore the Government was acting within its constitutional powers- I do not suppose it matters much. But if the onus of proof" is shifted to the appellant, it seems to me that we ought to oppose this clause. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the finding in the annual report of the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal that Second World War ex-servicemen's widows are clearly disadvantaged by the difficulty of establishing a causal link between a death today and service which concluded over 30 years ago and that the Act makes no separate provision for this eventuality. 
) If so, has he taken any action which might facilitate the appeals of these widows. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) When were limits for income from other sources affecting the provision of fringe benefits for social security pensioners last increased. 
) Are the limits fixed at $33 per week for a single person and $57.50 for a married couple. 
What would these limits be now if they had been updated in accordance with the consumer price index. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the plea by Prince Sihanouk for an international conference on Kampuchea and the reconvening of an International Control Commission to supervise free elections and a return to independence. 
) If so, has Australia expressed support for the proposal. 
Can he say (a) whether the United States of America has expressed support for the proposal and (b) whether (i) the Soviet Union, (ii) the Peoples Republic of China and (iii) Vietnam have opposed it. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs been drawn to a paper on the rationalisation of hospitals tabled by the Minister for Health last Thursday which insists on a reduction from 870,000 to 766,000 bed days per year in repatriation hospitals over the next three years? Is it not a fact that as World War II veterans become older they will spend more time in repatriation hospitals and the maximum will only be reached in 1990? Will the Minister make some attempt to prevent this closure of facilities for people to whom we gave a definite undertaking of support when they joined up? 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  by standing up when you called on those honourable members on this side of the House who supported the discussion on this topic to do so, we indicated quite clearly that we supported the spirit and certainly the phraseology of this matter of public importance. I strongly support the proposition that abuse and wastage, whether it is in relation to welfare or any other government expenditure, must be restrained or eliminated, if that is at all possible, so that those who are in greatest need receive a more equitable share of the welfare dollar, or the taxation dollar as a whole. That is the whole point, as far as I can see, of the existence of the Australian Labor Party. That is our aim. We do, in fact, want to help those in greatest need. Let me point out the utter hypocrisy of many of the people - 
-. . . sitting opposite. Some of them do not understand, such as the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  I do not accuse him of hypocrisy because he does not understand, but it does not matter. I am sure that when he leaves this House after the next election he will be able to do a course at some tertiary institution where people earning incomes at a level similar to his own are happily received without having to pay fees and are subsidised in the process of getting better jobs. Let me say quite clearly that the honour.able member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  who has just spoken and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who I think will be following me in this discussion seem to have taken the line that attack is the best form of defence. Day after day in this House we have exposed the utter waste on the part of this Government. We have exposed its failure to deal with tax avoidance and its failure to deal with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who wastes money on everything. All honourable members know- I do not want to go through the whole circumstances again- about the whole question of the VIP aircraft. All honourable members know, as it was revealed yesterday, that the Prime Minister employed three chefs so that he could have cooked on those planes the food of three different countries. This is a ridiculous situation. 
Surely the people of this country realise where the wastage takes place. I do not think that is the largest amount of wastage, just as I do not believe that the number of people who may be receiving unjustifiably the unemployment benefit or any other social security benefits are the people in relation to whom the greatest wastage takes place. I fear that some honourable members on the Government side do not realise just how many of the policies of this Government are furthering what in theory the honourable member for Calare is trying to avoid. It may be significant to quote from a speech made by  Senator Baume  when speaking at a symposium in Sydney.  His  remarks are reported on page 3 1 of the Australian Medical Association gazette dated 12 April. He said: 
To understand the pressures which operated . . . 
He was talking about politicians having to make painful choices between resource allocations-   . . symposium members should accept as a matter of policy that Departments of Treasury and Finance at any level of government had no body of social theory and no element of social morality in what they suggested. They were there to advise government without taking account of the consequences of that advice. 
I do not, in fact, believe that that is absolutely true. But  Senator Baume  is a leading member of the Government party and he believes that that is happening. The honourable member for Calare completely misrepresented me, as did the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  the other day, when he quoted out of context and when he left out parts of sentences of a speech which I had made and which he had taped. He did so without my permission, but it does not matter that he did so. I am not withdrawing any of the statements which I made in that speech. I said that as long as there is widespread unemployment and as long as there are no jobs available for people, there is no point in wasting money on the administration of pushing young people who do not want to work, whether they are surfies or anything else, into jobs because other people who do want to work will not be able to get those jobs. It is a wastage as far as the taxpayer is concerned because he has to pay more often for the older person who has dependants and who wanted the job. It is unfair to the employer because he gets somebody as an employee who does not really want to work. 
Honourable members opposite are trying to push some young people- they do not have to be young people- into a job as a punishment because they do not like their appearance and their mode of living. I emphasise now, as I emphasised in that speech, that I am speaking as a taxpayer who does not like paying a lot of taxes. I certainly would not like to support the people who adopt an alternative lifestyle or anything else if there were jobs available. I am sure that that is basically the proposition of the Australian Labor Party- that as long as there are jobs available we are not going to pay the unemployment benefit to people who refuse to take those jobs. If there are no jobs available we are wasting money not only by the payment of the unemployment benefit- it is at a higher level for those people who want to work because often they have dependants- but also in paying a lot of people to force the administration of the payment of the benefit. I make that point quite clear. 
Let me now come back to some of the things that have occurred since last Thursday when certain changes were introduced in this House. Let us remember that we heard some talk about odd dollars. The honourable member for Calare made reference to that. Let us look at the matters to which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  referred the other day. When speaking of tax avoidance he referred to one particular scheme with an overhang of tax avoidance of $452m. Yesterday in this House he told us, when he was talking of the short fall in revenue of this Budget and of a total increase in the deficit of more than $750m, that one scheme only was responsible for tax avoidance of $ 180m this year. That is $180m in one year. I point out to the honourable member for Calare - 
The honourable member for Calare has never talked about tax avoidance in his life. All he is worred about is the three people who he is going to move into some house in his electorate and who are not going to vote for him. I hope they do not. 
Let us be quite clear about what the health changes do this year. The Government has decided that no money shall be paid on the first $20 charged for the ordinary services which are provided by the general practitioner and which the poor people and everybody else in the community have to receive at odd times during their lifetime. We are now talking about the poorer people in the community. The Government is maintaining the payment of all medical fees above $20. Every member of this House should know, if he thinks about it, that the vast majority of those medical fees are payable for the services of surgeons and anaesthetists in relation to operations carried out on private patients. 
Let us be quite clear. Standard ward patients do not have to pay. There is no medical charge. If somebody is admitted to hospital for, let us say a cholecystectomy, that is the removal of the gall bladder, the Government pays about $360 towards the cost of the surgery. If the Government has decided to save money and if it thinks that the money ought to go to those in greatest need, surely the average family with a number of children or with a chronic illness in the family has a greater need. Why should the Government subsidise a person who chooses- I emphasise the word 'chooses'- to go into hospital as a private patient. Such a person would have private hospital insurance yet we subsidise him in such a way that his own contribution will be only $20. The Government's contribution will be about $360. How can the Government possibly justify that on the basis of greatest need? 
Let us look at the changes that have been suggested in relation to declaring patients as nursing home patients. The Government has insisted that from 1 July 1979 every patient in a hospital for more than 60 days, unless he has a special exemption certificate from his medical practitioner, will have to make what is called a patient contribution. In other words, that patient will have to pay $7.25 a day or $50.75 a week from his pension, if he has a pension or from his own income if he has an outside income. When I first considered that proposal I said: 'I do not think that is terribly fair. It is the first time since Federation that pensioners will be charged for being in a hospital when they are declared nursing home patients. Still, the Government is in strife. It has to save a few dollars towards VIP planes, training chefs, et cetera. Perhaps it can be justified'. 
Yesterday we found out from the Department of Health that this arrangement will cost the Government money. It will cost all State governments money, with the possible exception of Tasmania. Until now, patients who were privately insured and who were covered for this new classification were contributing, through their health insurance funds, $40 a day towards their upkeep. Governments, State and Federal which share this responsibility will gain $50.75 a week from pensioners out of a pension which is in the $50 bracket. Yet they will lose $280 a week from those who are insured. The funds will save $280 and the pensioners will pay $50.75. We have been assured by the Department of Health that these arrangements will mean a net loss to the Government. It is a transfer of money from pensioners of $50.75 a week to the health insurance funds. However much honourable members support the health funds, I think that most of them would agree that the funds are not exactly covered by the phrase 'those in greatest need'. I think that pensioners in many cases, especially those with chronic illnesses, would fall into that category. 
The Government has been asked by the honourable member for Calare to move the dollars to those in greatest need. Let us look at education. The only change last year in the education budget was an increase for those schools which were known as Level I and Level 2 schools. They received an increase of $35 and $37 respectively for secondary school pupils. Perhaps that increase can be justified on some basis of equity but surely not on the basis of giving money to those in greatest need. Millions of dollars are involved. On what are we spending money? The High Court building will cost $45m because  Mr Justice  Barwick, to whom this Government owes a great favour, has asked for certain extensions.  Mr Justice  Barwick helped this Government get into power. 
It is not a question of who started it. Our proposal for the High Court building would have cost $ 1 1 m. This Government has accepted changes to that proposal which will bring the cost to $45m. The Government talks about saving money and giving it to those in greatest need. What has happened in regard to hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory? This morning the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  gave figures on the net cost of a hospital bed. In New South Wales it was $1 19 a day. In the Australian Capital Territory it was $200 a day. The Calvary Hospital was opened by the Government. I understand that the net cost of a bed in that hospital will be about $400 a day. I will not join the honourable member for Calare in saying that the Calvary Hospital should be converted into an old men 's home. He believes that convent schools and, I suppose, churches and church hospitals should be converted into old people's homes. That is a proposition that has been successfully pushed in the Soviet Union. I am surprised that the honourable member for Calare pushes the sort of proposition that has come into force in the Soviet Union. What I am saying is that this Government has certainly not pushed money to those in greatest need. 
Pay-as-you-earn taxation has increased by 47.3 per cent during the three years of this Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  received a $50 a week tax benefit in February 1968. He still has that benefit even after the claw-back. Yet the average income earner lost the whole of that benefit. The Prime Minister still receives a benefit of $50 a week. He is one of those in greatest need ! 
-The honourable member for Dundas will undoubtedly tell us in the Parramatta  Advertiser  next week that he is concerned about the poor. This Government has stated quite clearly that it is not at all interested in the poor. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the United States of America Department of Health, Education and Welfare has launched a campaign to impress upon Medicare and Medicaid recipients the desirability of having a second opinion before surgery. 
If so, and in view of his Government's professed concern over the health cost spiral, has a similar advertising campaign been considered in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
I just indicate, so as to save time in respect of going into Committee at this late hour, that there is obviously no point in dividing again at the Committee stage of the National Health Amendment Bill. However, the Opposition opposes all those clauses which deal with the reclassification of public hospital patients as nursing home type patients. The Opposition also disagrees with those clauses which lead to the abolition of the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit which is presently payable for professional services. If we had gone into Committee, we would have opposed those clauses. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted so that registered funds will continue to pay the current appropriate benefit to eligible contributors for the full period of their stay in hospital'. 
We have moved this amendment so that, as we indicated in respect of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill, registered health insurance funds will no longer have to contribute the $40 a day to those contributors who have been in hospital for more than 60 days. Those contributors are declared nursing home-type patients and the health insurance funds then have to contribute only a varying amount, depending on the State in which the patient  is  in hospital. As I indicated earlier, the results of the changes proposed in the legislation are that pensioners and chronically ill patients will have to pay $50.75 a week and that the benefit does not go to the Commonwealth or a State. The net result is a transfer of money from the pensioners to the health insurance funds. We strongly oppose that. 
-The Opposition supports the amendment moved by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The Opposition also felt it was necessary and has previously called for this change to be made to the arbitrary age limit. We are pleased that the Government has agreed to our proposal that this change be introduced. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister and I refer to the advice he received from  Mr Rupert  Murdoch in Saturday's 

 Australian regarding a smaller and different Cabinet and Ministry. Will he give an undertaking to this House that he will consult Messrs Packer and Fairfax before making any decisions on reforming his Cabinet? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is a pleasure to have you in the Chair because you are one of the few people in this House who can follow all the health insurance changes brought in by this Government. I think that you have about four degrees, some of which are above the Bachelor status, but it would be better for Australians if a person did not need four degrees in order to follow the health insurance changes that have been brought in by this Government. 
I shall go quickly over the history of health insurance in this country over the last few years. Honourable members will recall that the main topic of conversation when talking about health insurance changes is what happened during the Labor Government's introduction of Medibank. Medibank was introduced on 1 July 1975 after some three years of thorough discussion in the form of Green Papers, White Papers, amendments, changes and agreements with all kinds of interest groups. Finally the legislation was passed in 1974 and Medibank itself came in on 1 July 1975 as far as medical insurance aspects were concerned. As far as hospital insurance was concerned, in the case of those States which cooperated with the Government it came in on 1 July, but in some cases it came in as late as 1 October 1975. 
Medibank was never given a chance to work as the Labor Government was dismissed by the Governor-General on 11 November 1975. We were never given a chance to see how Medibank would perform when administered by a Minister sympathetic to the reform which had been introduced. That is a relevant point. I emphasise again that it took three years of discussion to decide just how to go about it. What has happened since then? We talk about some of the so-called banana republics and the overthrow of their governments and we talk about destabilisation, but that is exactly the situation we have reached as far as the Australian health insurance system is concerned. It has become completely destabilised. The Liberal Government took over on 11 November 1975 but did not do anything about Medibank until October 1976. Since then there have been nine changes, some of them not major. 
Improvements, says the honourable member for La Trobe, which indicates very clearly that he is one of those people I referred to earlier in my remarks who cannot follow what is going on. Whatever one says about any one of those changes, they cannot all have been improvements because it has been going like a yo-yo. 
It is a progressive yo-yo. 
-I am certainly not impressed by the knowledge of the honourable member for 
La Trobe on this issue. I go back to what has happened since 1975. 
-Let us go back slightly before then. 
Creation started, appropriately enough for the honourable member for Murray, with  Sir Earle  Page in 1953. That was the creation of medical insurance in Australia. 
-I will not go into an argument now on that. I am sure that the Minister for Health is keen to go back to what  Sir Earle  Page introduced in 1953. He is certainly making every attempt to do so. In 1953 the health insurance system was introduced in Australia. There followed a number of significant changes but basically what happened was that some people were privately insured and some were not insured until 1975 when Medibank came in. People took out private insurance and the government subsidised that insurance on a hospital basis and on a medical basis.  Major changes  were introduced by the introduction of Medibank mark 1, as far as the medical insurance system was concerned. Then everybody was covered and entitled without contribution to an 85 per cent refund of charges. In other words, people did not have to pay any contribution towards medical insurance but got an 85 per cent refund of the common fee. Pensioners became eligible for free attendance at private specialists. I think that was an important point at the time. Pensioners until then had been covered under the pensioner medical service purely for attention by general practitioners. If they needed to see a specialist or a pathologist to have tests performed or to have x-rays taken, they could not get them at a private source because until Medibank was introduced the Government would not pay for them. They had to have the tests done as outpatients at a public hospital. That was changed under Medibank and pensioners became eligible for treatment by private specialists. 
As far as the hospital aspects of Medibank were concerned, there was the abolition of the means test. Previously public wards were free but there was a means test, and then the Labor Government changed this to what is called standard ward treatment which was free. For practical purposes that has not changed since then, though some changes are now being introduced under this legislation. Secondly, there has been since then a strike by specialists at hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory and in many New South Wales hospitals. In other words, they have refused to man outpatient departments in many cases and have refused to do work for which they were appointed and which was part of their contract with the hospitals. It is important to remember that visiting medical officers, or what were then called honorary medical officers, benefited in a material sense as well as in a professional sense from being attached to a hospital. In a professional sense it is essential for many medical practitioners, and certainly all specialists, to be somehow associated with a hospital to see what is going on and to have contact with patients and with fellow specialists. In a material sense it was important for them because that was the only way they could get patients into hospital. They certainly got preference so far as the admission of so-called private patients was concerned. They had use of the facilities of the hospital and still do, and they used the staff of the hospital at no cost. 
If a specialist surgeon, for example, performs some operation at a hospital on a doctor of choice patient, he is entitled to payment for it. I am not complaining of that, but he is able to use the hospital, the staff of the hospital and the back-up facilities of the hospital at no cost. If anything goes wrong he can use the medical staff of the hospital without cost. That has been the set up for a long time. In return for that, he undertook to treat without charge the so-called public patients at hospitals. Originally they were the socalled indigent poor. Changes have been made and the suggestion when Medibank was established- it certainly has been the case in all the States apart from New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory- was that the doctors, since the Government accepts responsibility for the so-called indigent poor, the specialists and other visiting medical officers would be offered payment on a sessional basis, or on an hourly basis- not on a fee for service basis. A doctor may perform whatever he is doing at that particular hospital, whether it is surgery or seeing patients as a physician, or whatever, and is entitled to payment on a sessional basis. In all the other States the doctors have now accepted that proposition, but they have not done so in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. I think it is wrong that they should not accept the proposition and yet be able to benefit by being able to use the facilities of the hospital for their private patients where obviously they are entitled to fee-for-service payment. 
When Medibank was introduced, the first thing that happened in October 1976 was that the Liberal Government introduced a 2.5 per cent levy on those who continued to be covered by Medibank or a compulsory private insurance scheme. The taxpayer had to tell the Taxation Commissioner that he was covered by private health insurance. If he was not covered by private health insurance he had to pay a 2.5 per cent levy. There have been other relatively minor changes dealing with things such as what are called front-end deductibles and noncompulsion. The next major change was introduced last year when there was the abolition of the levy as from 1 November 1978. Hospitals remained as under the Labor Party's Medibank 1, and the medical aspects became a mixture. Pensioners were treated as under Medibank 1 . In other words, doctors were entitled to an 85 per cent refund of the common fee. A classification of disadvantaged people was introduced. The doctor is entitled to 75 per cent of the common fee provided he bulk bills these patients and provided the patient does not carry any private insurance. So there is a reduction from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee in respect of those patients. For the rest of the population, a 40 per cent of the common fee payment or a $20 maximum payment was introduced. My view is that all these changes were brought about, not for the purpose of improving the system of health care delivery in Australia. They were based purely on attitudes in the Treasury or the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
On 24 May the Treasurer, appropriately, made an announcement, followed by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who had been overseas, that new changes had been decided on in the Minister's absence. Those changes now wipe out the 40 per cent refund until the medical fee reaches $20. After that, the Government continues to pay the amount in excess of $20. Changes have also been introduced in relation to chronic patients in hospitals. I would like to deal with those changes later in this speech. It is probably worth while to quote the Minister for Health. On 24 May 1 978 he said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available, the Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance system. 
I agreed with him. I think that all honourable members in this House agreed with him. The Prime Minister was not in the House at the time. Soon after 24 May in the middle of August considerable changes were introduced without any attempt to show that an improved data base had become available. Exactly one year after 24 
May- when the Minister made that statementfurther very significant changes have been introduced. I deplore these changes. Hopefully, the Minister deplores them and hopefully those honourable members, even on the Government side of the chamber, who think about the importance of health insurance for a large proportion of the population, deplore these frequent changes. It is very difficult for people who do not continually read newspapers and advertisements and leaflets distributed by the Minister for Health, to keep up with the changes. In many cases they are persuaded to take out unnecessary insurance. They are persuaded, in a number of cases, to take out insurance which is not applicable to them. Health insurance is no different from ordinary insurance in that often people who can least afford that insurance or who least need that insurance contribute to it. 
-That is fair enough. I have no objection to that as long as they know what they are doing. I think the important point is that people must understand what they are doing and that applies in every case. In many cases they do not know what they are doing. But I do not want to get into an argument on this matter now. 
Let us look at the changes that have been introduced. The main change is the abolition of the 40 per cent rebate by the Government on individual charges of less than $20 and the introduction of a new classification of nursing hometype patients in public hospitals. This change comes into operation on 1 July 1979. The definition of a 'nursing-home-type patient' is a person who has been in a public hospital for 60 days unless that patient has a certificate of exemption from a doctor which states, basically, that he has some acute condition, perhaps temporarily or some other condition that has to be treated specially. I realise- the Minister will probably argue this in his reply- that it is a question of equity, that there are similar people in nursing homes who have to contribute $50.75 a week or $7.25 a day towards their upkeep and why should not people in public hospitals make a similar contribution? There is that point to the argument and I accept it. I think that it is more important to ask: Why are we doing it? We are surely not doing it to be equitable. We are doing it for some other reason. I had assumed that the reason was one involving money, that the Government had decided that it was not fair that certain people were in hospitals and were not contributing towards their upkeep. Now we find that, in fact, the Government will lose money on this proposition, that the $50.75 a week which is collected by this Government and the State governments from these people- mainly pensioners and elderly people who suffer from chronic conditions and who are declared nursing home patients- is more than cancelled out by the fact that the proportion of the patients who were covered by private insurance was so great. Previously, the funds contributed $40 a day- $280 a week- and now there will be a loss to the governments by introducing this new system. 
Some 8,000 people will be declared nursing home-type patients and from now on, will have to pay $50.75 a week. This is an increasing amount, of course, related to the pension. These people will not be able to insure themselves for this cost. It is a net transfer of money from pensioners to the funds. Let us be clear on that. State and Federal governments will lose on it. Pensioners will lose $50.75 a week. That money will go to the funds which will not collect the $50.75 but save themselves paying $40 a day for those people who were insured with them for that service. It is interesting to note that the Government does not allow insurance for that amount. People who are not pensioners cannot insure themselves with a private fund for that expenditure of $50.75 a week. I think it is shameful that this charge has been introduced. I have not checked on what happened before Federation but this is the first time since Federation that pensioners in public hospitals in Australia have had to pay for their upkeep. It is the first time since Federation that pensioners have not had free hospitalisation. I emphasise that no longer will they be able to have free treatment in a public hospital after 60 days. 
-We have always had the problem of lack of equity. People in psychiatric hospitals have to contribute to the cost of service. Yet psychiatric patients in a general hospital do not have to contribute. I do not think that the way around that problem is to make the psychiatric patients in public hospitals contribute. The way to get around that is to look at what ought to be done for the psychiatric patients in psychiatric hospitals so that they are covered and do not have to contribute to the cost of services provided. It is depressing, as I said, that some 8,000 people in public hospitals at the present time, on 1 July, will suddenly be told that they have to contribute $50.75 a week. 
-The Minister says for their board and lodging. If I go into hospital I do not have to contribute to my board and lodging, only the pensioner has to contribute. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Prospect will continue without the Minister's assistance. 
-I am pleased to see that the Minister defends that policy. I thought it was purely the policy of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but it appears that the Minister is now keen that the people in his electorate who are quite often patients in some of the small public hospitals and who have up until now been treated for nothing will suddenly have to pay $50.75 a week. 
Let us look at the elimination of the 40 per cent Government contribution for amounts less than $20. Last week the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  proposed for discussion a matter of public importance emphasising that the belief of Government members was that the welfare dollar, including the health dollar, should go to the needy. We on this side of the House certainly supported that statement, although we did not agree with the examples he cited. What the Government is doing with the national health scheme now is contrary to the proposition that the money should go to the needy. It is going to the people who are not in need. The needy are the people who have to go, to general practitioners frequently or have to make repeat visits to specialists for a chronic condition. They are the ones who should be subsidised. Their medical services should be subsidised. They will not be subsidised at all now. 
Who will be subsidised from now on? It will be those people who, because they have the money to take out private health insurance and go either into private hospitals or into public hospitals as private patients. They will be subsidised and their insurance funds will be subsidised. If I take out medical insurance now and I go into a public hospital as a private patient or into a private hospital let me make it quite clear what the Government will do for me. Let us say that I have to have a gall bladder operation, a cholecystectomy. The Government will pay $220 for the surgeon, $28 for the assistant surgeon and $36 for the anaesthetist. A total of $284 will be paid by the Commonwealth Government towards my medical costs; yet I am a person who is better off than the average person in the community. I have taken out private insurance and I can afford to pay for private insurance. Assuming my wife is confined as a private patient. The refund from the Government on a fee of $176 will be $ 1 56. For an appendectomy the refund will be $135 for the surgeon and the anaesthetist. There will be a complete refund for every charge above $20. 
The whole trend of the Government's policy is to push government money to those least in need, and I emphasise that. The family with a number of sick children with, let us say, asthma, other chronic chest conditions or chronic urinary tract infections, diabetes or any other chronic condition, will not get any subsidy from this Government in future for medical insurance. It will not get anything. We are talking about a government which tries to pretend to the community that it is a government that is looking after the little people, a government that is looking after the families. It does nothing of the sort. In this legislation making changes to the Health Insurance Act it attacks the family. From now on all the money that goes into the medical insurance system will be pushed towards those who can best afford to pay. It will be pushed away from the general practitioner, the so-called doctor of primary care, towards those people who are charging very large fees. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was debating the health legislation that has come into this House following the changes proposed in the Government's horror Budget introduced into this House on 24 May. I referred to two of the major changes introduced by the legislation. Firstly for the first time in Australian history, some 8,000 public hospital patients, including a large proportion of pensioners, will have to pay $50.75 a week if they are chronic patients who are declared nursing type patients even though they will be in public hospitals. Secondly, the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit which is applicable at present for all services under $20 will be abolished for all people except those who are eligible pensioners and disadvantaged persons. 
I pointed out that the most important aspect of these changes was, in a philosophical sense, that it meant money would be going from people who most needed it to people who least needed it. In the case of the pension changes, as far as chronic patients are concerned, it means that money will be collected from pensioners and from other chronically ill persons. This money will not go to the Treasuries of the Commonwealth or the States. The Commonwealth and States will lose from this legislation. The net result will be considerable saving of money by the private fundshardly a needy section in the Australian community. The health insurance changes go against the needy. The only people who will benefit in future will be those who take out private insurance and who go into hospitals for procedures as private patients. I emphasise that, as private patients. There will be no benefit whatever from this Government for chronically ill adults or chronically ill children. 
All the benefits will go to those who take out private insurance, who are admitted into private hospitals or public hospitals as private patients and who have surgery or other procedures carried out on them. From now on, only those people paying for services worth more than $20 will be reimbursed at all by the Commonwealth Government. I therefore move this amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1 979: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to exclude (a) the re-classification of public hospital patients as nursinghome type patients and (b) the abolition of the 40 per cent Commonwealth medical benefit presently payable for professional services, where the specified fee is $20 or less'. 
I give notice that at the end of the cognate debate on these Bills, when the National Health Amendment Bill, is presented for debate, I shall move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted so that registered funds will continue to pay the current appropriate benefit to eligible contributors for the full period of their stay in hospital'. 
This will force the funds to continue to pay the benefits so that those who are privately insured and have to stay in hospital for more than 60 days without a certificate of exemption will be able to obtain some benefit. May I emphasise that the Opposition deplores the legislation which has been introduced into this House on a number of grounds. The two grounds which I have mentioned are probably the most important ones in that these Bills move money from those most in need to those least in need. There is another important ground which I want to emphasise. Hopefully this ground will be supported even by those on the opposite side who generally support those least in need. This proposition is that there should not be so many changes to health insurance; that the changes themselves are extremely destabilising and depressing especially for those people in the community who have difficulty in following involved legislation. 
I appeal again to the Minister to use whatever powers he has in the Government to try to prevent the Government from continuously changing the legislation. Let me emphasise that it was only seven months last Friday that the previous changes were introduced in to this House. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is he able to state whether a  Mr Igor  Ogurtsov was sentenced by the government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to 15 years imprisonment and 5 years of exile about 1 1 years ago. 
) If so, is  Mr Ogurtsov  at present a prisoner in the concentration camp at Perm and seriously ill. 
What were the charges of which  Mr Ogurtsov  was found guilty; were they related to his religious beliefs. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Was Domenico Speranza fatally shot by police at Sydney International Airport on 4 April 1979. 
Were the police aware that  Mr Speranza  was mentally ill. 
Was there any risk to human life (apart from the victims 's own ) when  Mr Speranza  was shot. 
What was his attitude to the police action at the time, and what is his attitude in retrospect. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 3 April 1 979: 
Has he received a complaint from an ex-prisoner-of-war, dated 19 March 1979, about the lack of privacy when examined by a specialist at the out-patients urology clinic at Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, Victoria; is so, has he investigated the complaint. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
What would be the estimated cost of making all those, at present ineligible, who served in the Australian Merchant Navy in war zones during 1939-45, eligible for the Service Pension at age 60 years. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
What proportion of Australian servicemen in World War II served in (a) tropical areas and (b) areas in which malaria was endemic. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Is he able to state whether the Government of the United States of America provides tax incentives for employers to employ handicapped persons. 
If so, can he provide a summary of the benefits available. 
Does the Australian Government provide similar incentives. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Was there a move to suspend Israel from the World Health Organisation at the recent World Health Assembly. 
If so, (a) why and (b) what as the outcome of the move. 
3 ) What is Australia 's financial contribution to WHO. 
Which countries voted for the suspension of Israel. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June: 
1 ) Can he say whether a statute of limitations will prevent the prosecution of alleged war criminals and those accused of crimes during the Hitler period in the Federal Republic of Germany after 3 1 December 1979. 
Has the Australian Government expressed any views to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on this matter; if not, will it do so. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on  20  February  1979: 
1 ) Did the  Speaker  and the  President  of the Senate write to him saying that in the light of recent experience in the settlement of the 1978-79 Estimates of the Parliament, they now must conclude that the existing working relationship has done little to protect the rights of the Parliament, that discussions with the Presiding Officers did not occur, that queries raised by the Minister for Finance by letter in respect of the House of Representatives, the Parliamentary Library, Joint House and  Hansard,  were answered by the Presiding Officers fully and with clear re-statement of Parliamentary needs and priorities, without effect, and that in most cases these priorities were rejected by officials of the Department of Finance, it seems, without further consideration by Government. 
Did the Presiding Officers' letter also state that it is totally inconsistent with a proper relationship between the Executive and Parliament that the Presiding Officers' needs and priorities be questioned to the extent and in the manner recently evident, that they then be rejected, and replaced by the judgment of Government officials which are further communicated, often indirectly, to the Parliament's Presiding Officers in a manner suggesting indifference to the Parliamentary viewpoint. 
asked the Prime Minister upon notice, on  20  February  1 979: 
Did  Mr Speaker  complain to him regarding the reduction by the Government of the House of Representatives estimates for Standing and Select Committees, Division 102-2-05, from $124,600 to $51,600, and did  Mr Speaker  state the issue as being the whole question of the Executive's ability, through funds control, to frustrate the Parliament's capacity to inquire into executive action. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the findings in the annual report of the No. 4 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal that Departmental files relating to a particular claimant are not prepared until an appeal to an Appeal Tribunal has been lodged and that it is usually too short a period to permit the production of a supporting medical opinion at the hearing. 
If so, and given the Tribunal's concern that contrary medical opinions are not usually put forward until after the Repatriation Commission has given a decision on the preliminary appeal and that consequently Departmental medical opinion tends to become more rigid and partisan than is consistent with the spirit of section 48 of the Repatriation Act, has he taken action to ensure that the right to appeal is exercised more consistently with the objectives of Repatriation legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
Is it a fact as reported in the ACT Legislative Assembly  Hansard,  19 February 1979, page 120, that (a) the amount of methadone prescribed in the ACT has increased from 24,500 mg during the 4 weeks ending 8 October 1977 to 154,200 mg for the 4 weeks ending 7 October 1978 and (b) this has been a steady, steep and almost linear increase. 
2 ) If so, what is the explanation for this increase. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
How many scripts for metronidazole were dispensed as a pharmaceutical benefit in Australia in each of the last 3 years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
Which authorities in Australia add fluoride to their water supply. 
What is the chemical form of the fluoride added in each case. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
When will he present to the Parliament the Government's submission to the Inquiry into Doctors' Fees conducted by  Mr Justice  Ludeke. 
-by leave-The Opposition obviously welcomes the benefits for veterans which to a large extent have been restored by the provisions in the Budget brought down tonight. It is important to emphasise that to a large extent this is a partial restoration of benefits withdrawn by this Government less than one year ago. On 12 October 1978 this House debated amendments to the Repatriation Act. There were four main amendments. They dealt with changes to the pension entitlements of pulmonary tuberculosis sufferers, the abolition of the sustenance allowance, the introduction of yearly instead of six-monthly adjustments to repatriation pensions and the introduction of a means test for certain repatriation pensioners. Nothing has been done about the last point and nothing has been done about the abolition of the sustenance allowance. 
I cannot think of a word which would accord with parliamentary practice to describe the performance of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  and the Government in respect of sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis. They took from TB sufferers benefits which, in some cases, they had been receiving for many years. These people had to undergo many medical examinations. There must have been tremendous costs as far as medical examinations and administration were concerned. This change upset many people and now the Government has partially reintroduced- I emphasise the word 'partially'the benefits for those TB sufferers. Until last year TB sufferers, provided they were ex-servicemen, did not have to prove that the tuberculosis was due to war service. The persons concerned were in receipt of the 100 per cent benefit. It was, of course, increased as the 100 per cent rate was increased. It was then decided that this would no longer be done. If I remember correctly, they stayed on the 100 per cent rate until such time as they had their examination but they were no longer eligible for medical benefits. They will now become eligible for free medical treatment as far as repatriation is concerned but they still will stay on the frozen 100 per cent rate. That rate does not increase as far as those persons are concerned. I would be interested to hear from the Minister when he presents the appropriate legislation what the cost to the Department was of this completely unnecessary decision last year. I am sure that the cost of medical examinations et cetera was greater than the saving during that year. 
Veterans, the same as all social security recipients, also have lost one indexation increase. The indexation which should have taken place last May did not take place. Indexation has been reintroduced on a six-monthly basis. It will not cost the Government any extra in November because the November increase was based on the yearly increase anyway. It is completely wrong for the Minister to state in the second last page of his statement, as though it is something new, that the pension increases alone in November 1979 will cost $84m in a full year. That was always the case. That increase of $84m was always to take place. It was the normal indexation increase from the time the Government decided to change from six-monthly indexation to yearly indexation. 
The eligibility for fringe benefits has been lifted. We certainly welcome that improvement. It is interesting to note the answer I received to my Question on Notice No. 3968. The third part of that question, dealing with income limits and fringe benefits for repatriation pensioners, asks what would these limits be now if they had been updated in accordance with the consumer price index. The Minister tells us that that is what he has done. He has increased those limits to $40 and $68 for single and married pensioners respectively. In the answer to the question he tells us that the new limits ought to be $62.10, not $40, for a single person and $ 108.15, not $68, for a married couple. So much for the honesty of this Government. But 1 suppose that veterans have to be pleased that they got something from the Minister. 
The Minister referred in his speech to an increase in the allowance for those veterans who have such severe disabilities that they are provided with cars together with an annual allowance. He said: 
As honourable members are aware - 
Very much aware-  the cost of maintaining a car has risen considerably in the last few years, and so the Government has decided to increase the annual allowance for this purpose by $48 to a new figure of $480 a year 
In other words, there has been about a 12 per cent increase. Yet those of us who live in capital cities know that at the beginning of last year petrol was available in Sydney at approximately 13c a litre. Today it costs a minimum of 29c a litre and I understand that a new increase is in the pipeline. It already applies in other States apart from New South Wales and South Australia. There has been an increase from 1 3c to 29c in the cost of petrol since February last year. Yet this Government proposes a 12 per cent increase in the allowance available to those veterans who have such severe disabilities that they have to use a car continuously. 
I make one point in conclusion and that is to congratulate the Minister on his honesty. In the first paragraph on page six of the speech distributed he said: 
Compared with arrangements in other countries with comparable standards of living, the Australian repatriation system is very generous. 
In his speech he deleted the word 'very'. I am sure that that shows great honesty on the part of the Minister and I congratulate turn. 
-by leave-As these new measures announced by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on behalf of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  improve benefits for social beneficiaries they receive the support of the Opposition. However, it is important to look at these new measures in the context of the Budget and I will make a couple of points concerning them. There has been a very sharp increase in revenue in this Budget. It has risen in total by 15.4 per cent in money terms. Even with the 10 per cent inflation rate that is a very significant increase in revenue. On the expenditure side of the Budget there is in fact a loss of about one per cent in real terms. Obviously this does not apply only to the question of social security. 
However, it is important to point out to the people of Australia that income tax from payasyouearn and other sources- income tax collected from individuals, in other words- will increase to about $15.1 billion in this financial year. It is in increase of 1 8.2 per cent in nominal terms or, taking a 10 per cent inflation rate, an increase of about 8 per cent cent in real terms. The effect is to raise personal income taxes as a proportion of total revenue from 50 per cent approximately last year to 51.3 per cent in this coming year, in spite of the fact that there has been an increase of $800m already in the socalled crude oil levy. 
Not only has the Government failed to reduce taxes but also it has actually increased the importance of income taxes. I think it is an important point to emphasise continually that this Government, certainly in 1975, and I think to a large extent in 1977, came into power on the basis that it would reduce taxation. It is important to remember that this Government now has a highest point ever of $15.1 billion collection of income tax. The total taxes and charges in this financial year are up to $27,000m, or a 54 per cent increase in revenue since this Government took office. This is background information for this House in looking at the increased benefits which have been announced tonight. 
I think it is also important to remember that one of the major so-called increased benefits is really a restoration- I emphasise that- of 6- monthly indexation. This restoration has become necessary because last October this Government changed from 6-monthly indexation to yearly indexation. Therefore, all social security recipients who were covered by indexation in fact lost out on one indexation stage. 
The second point to remember is that many of the other benefits that were removed last year have not been restored. I refer to such things as the introduction of a means test upon increased age pensions for those over 70. That has not been changed. Their pension remains as it was; there has been no restoration of the provision for increases. 
There has been no indexation of the family allowance. That is probably one of the worst features of the whole Budget. If we examine the family allowance- and I was a strong supporter of its introduction in place of the tax rebates and child endowment which had obtained for many years- we find that the loss in benefits to a taxpaying family in respect of their first child has become $2.70 a week; in respect of a family with two children it has become $4.42 a week. For a family with three children it has become $6.10 a week; for one with four children it has become $8 a week; and for one with six children it has become $10.50 a week. These very, very significant losses to those families have resulted from the failure to index the family allowances. 
Again, in respect of fringe benefits there has been a partial attempt at indexation, but I repeat what I said a few minutes ago with respect to repatriation pensioners, because exactly the same figures apply. The new weekly figures in respect of fringe benefits will be $40 for single persons and $68 for married couples, when they should be $62.10 for single persons and $108.15 for married couples. Those figures indicate the very large difference between what should have been done by this Government and what has in fact been done by it. 
A moment ago the Minister for Health said that he was pleased to be able to announce the restoration of six-monthly indexation. Let us look at what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said about an hour ago at page 9 of his Budget Speech. He did not say that he was pleased to be able to restore indexation in respect of pensions and benefits. He said: 
Last year when the Government took its decision to introduce annual indexation adjustments of social security and repatriation pensions and benefits, it was with the prospect of a lower rate of inflation than now prevails. 
In the event this expectation was not realised. 
Following many representations to the Government, it has been decided to restore twice yearly automatic indexation for all indexed pensions and benefits. 
So the Treasurer does not pretend that he is pleased to be able to restore these benefits. He is sorry that he has to do so because his economic policy has failed, as far as inflation is concerned. The only argument that the Fraser Government had was that during the last few years inflation had in fact improved, but now inflation is increasing continually and quite significantly. What the Government has had to do today has been forced upon it because inflation has again been getting out of control. 
A few minutes ago the Minister for Health was given leave to incorporate in  Hansard  tables showing what the benefits, in two cases, would be as from November 1979. He was terribly proud of this and took credit for it, as if it were a new benefit. Let us remember that it is not. It is the November increase. The figure looks impressive. Last year the Government removed sixmonthly indexation and, as a result of its restoration, the increase in benefits now looks quite large. Instead of two six-monthly benefits we have had a single 12-monthly benefit, with very high inflation rates in between. 
On the question of unemployment and sickness benefits, I make the following point: Tonight in the Budget Speech it was announced that pharmaceutical benefits will be increased from $2.50 to $2.75. The patient contribution will be increased by only a relatively small amount- 10 per cent. But unemployment and sickness beneficiaries do not receive pensioner health benefit cards for pharmaceuticals. They are in a very difficult position in many cases, especially those who are in receipt of sickness benefits. As far as medical services are concerned, they can be treated by doctors as disadvantaged persons but, as far as pharmaceuticals prescribed by those doctors are concerned, they have to pay $2.75 for each prescription. That is a large amount of money for a person who is receiving only a small amount. I appeal to the Government- I know that it has had many representations, not only from individuals and from our side of the House but also from The Pharmacy Guild of Australia- to try to do something for recipients of social security benefits who are not able to get pensioner health benefit cards and are therefore unable to get free pharmaceuticals. 
Special benefits are not mentioned with unemployment and sickness benefits. Usually they are mentioned. Does that mean that they are not being increased or is it just an oversight on the part of the Government? Special benefits are often the most important benefits. They go to the people who need them the most. It is important to realise that the single pension is now reduced to 22.8 per cent of average weekly earnings. Under the Labor Government it was 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
-I beg your pardon? 
-The Government may well have got to it, but the pension is now down to 22.8 per cent. I am not suggesting that this Government is not on the way down; I think it is. The unemployment benefit for a single person is now down to 22.1 per cent. In the case of those under the age of 1 8, the amount is much less than that. It has been kept at $36 a week ever since 1975. In March this year there were 261,510 single unemployed people without dependants. Their benefit is being held down, not increased. This figure represents 77.7 per cent of all the unemployed on whom the Government is spending money. It is spending no extra money on them. There are 58,200 unemployed people who have been on the benefit for one year or longer. We do not know their ages, but those people- over 58,000 of them- have not been able to get a job for over a year. Of all unemployment beneficiaries, 96.9 per cent- nearly 97 per centhad no regular income other than the unemployment benefit. Over 57 per cent of the unemployed over 45 years of age have been on the benefit for six months or longer. 
I feel very strongly-I have made this point in the House before- that whilst we pay a lot of Up service, and maybe more than Up service, to the young who are unemployed, and whilst it is extremely unpleasant to be young and unemployed, it is worse to be old and unemployed or middle aged and unemployed. Some people may argue about this. I suppose it is a question of attitudes. I think it must be very unpleasant for a person who is 16 or 18 years of age and has left school to be unemployed, and obviously we do not want that person to be unemployed, but at least that person has a whole life in front of him or her and has a good chance of picking up a job sooner or later. A person who is in his, or very often her, 40s, who is 45 or 50 years of age, and who has been unemployed for three or six months and does not see the possibility of a job coming up, who has lots of responsibility and a family to look after and so on would become really desperate. This Government and people connected with social security and employment creation schemes are continuously talking about getting jobs for the young unemployed. I think it is more important to get jobs for the old unemployed or the middle aged unemployed. If all we are doing is putting young people into jobs and displacing older people from those jobs, we are not doing something for the benefit of society. I do not think we are doing the right thing as far as people who most need benefits are concerned. 
I do not support the proposition that the unemployment benefit for those under 18 years of age should have been held at $36 but, after all, they turn 1 8 reasonably soon. They then go on to a higher rate of unemployment benefit. I find very depressing the thought that persons are missing out on a job for the first six months or the first year of what would have been their working life. I would not like to be one of them and I would not like one of my children to be one of them. I do think that it is easier for them when they are still living with their families, to a large extent, than it is for those who are already responsible and who must feel terribly depressed when they have that responsibility to their family and are not able to get a job. 
It struck me as an anomaly, as I was listening to the Minister talking about the expansion of the Budget and the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat, that we have an increase in the Budget of 33 per cent. That is a 33 per cent increase in the budget of the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat. It may very well be justified. It probably is. The Minister then went on to talk about allocations to national social welfare co-ordinating organisations such as the Australian Council of Social Service, the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled and the Australian Council on the Ageing. The amount of money going to those organisations has been increased by only 6V4 per cent. I think it is wrong. They are voluntary organisations run by people, to a large extent, who are doing this part time and who need the money, not so much for themselves for salaries but to keep the organisations going. They do quite a significant amount of good work in the community, whether it is ACOSS, the Council for Rehabilitation or the Council on the Ageing. Their actual amount in real terms has been reduced because it has been increased from $150,000 to only $160,000 a year. Yet the amount of money going to the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat, a part of the Government's bureaucracy, has been increased by 33 per cent at the same time. 
I commend the changes, as far as they go, that have been announced tonight as far as the social welfare policies are concerned. We have had the benefit of the speech for only about an hour or an hour and a half. Obviously one has to go into greater detail to make more detailed comments on it. There will undoubtedly be legislation introduced dealing with some of the changes that are proposed. We will then have a further opportunity to debate these changes and possibly make further comments on them. I summarise again my point. This is a high taxation Government. Taxation rates are being increased. Income tax is being increased this year by 18.2 per cent and yet expenditure on very important benefits is not being increased by anything like that amount. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report prepared by the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters, that (a) 28 commercial radio stations are deemed to be controlled by newspaper companies, (b) 1 1 by television station licensees and (c) 22 by companies in a position to also control a television station licence; if so, is the position as stated in the report. 
2 ) What are the names and locations of these commercial radio stations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the recent report of the United States of America Academy of Science recommending a reduction in the maximum permissible dose of ionising radiation for workers in the nuclear industry. 
If so, can he say what are the new recommendations. 
How do the recommendations compare with the codes of practice with respect to nuclear activities accepted in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a resolution from the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association (AMA) that preference in employment be given to graduates who hold Australian qualifications and who are AMA members (AMA  Gazette,  10 May 1979, page 9). 
If so, what action is he taking on this proposal. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report that the Australian Association of Surgeons is pressing for the removal of fee differentials between the States. 
If so, can he state what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth under the present arrangements, of an increase or decrease of all fees to that of (a) New South Wales and (b) the State with the highest current common fee. 
What would be the estimated increase in medical insurance in the different States if all fee differentials were removed and fees adjusted to the State with the highest current common fee. 
What would be the estimated effect on the Consumer Price Index. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report claiming the suicide of Dusko Kalajdic was because he was to be deponed to Yugoslavia. 
) If so, what substance is there in the report. 
) Why was  Mr Kalajdic  to be deported. 
Was the Government aware that  Mr Kalajdic  was apparently afraid of being returned to Yugoslavia for political reasons. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to complaints by representatives of the Maltese community  (Maltese Herald,  17 April 1979) that they have been disadvantaged compared with others in relation to the new ethnic television programs. 
If so, how did this happen. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
What has been the buying price of gold per fine ounce at the beginning of each month from 1 January 1 970 to date in (a) London and (b) Zurich expressed in (i) US dollars, (ii) Swiss Francs and (iii) Australian dollars at the then ruling exchange rates. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
What were the total payments by his Department for patients in private hospitals in (a) daily $16 subsidy and (b) payments for medical services during each month since 1 November 1978. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) When introducing changes to medical insurance from 1 November 1978 did the Treasurer predict a consequential cost increase of $ 138m for the remainder of that year and $30Sm over a full financial year. 
What has been the actual cost of these changes over the first 7 months and what would the new estimate be for a full financial year, allowing for a delay in the presentation of claims. 
In view of the Prime Minister's demonstration of his lack of numeracy on the  AM  program this morning, I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the increase in basic health insurance rates from 1 September will amount to about $3 per week for major funds and to $4 to $5 for insurance at higher rates? Even ignoring the increase in the patient contribution for pharmaceutical items and the extra costs due to the proposed deletion of many of these items from the list, does this not mean that the great majority of taxpayers with wages at or below average weekly earnings will see the Christmas tax cut more than eaten up by the higher health insurance costs alone? 
-The matter of public importance which the Opposition is raising today is a very significant one especially when taken in the context of the Budget which was presented last night. I shall start off by referring to a source which could certainly not be accused of being biased in favour of the Australian Labor Party. I refer to the secretary of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association,  Mr James  Mansfield. Speaking three weeks ago, he said that with health insurance contributions for comprehensive cover increasing in some States from $650 per annum to possibly $850 to $900, it had reached the point where the existing voluntary system had priced itself out of reach of the community. Health funds were facing a massive dropout of contributors because health insurance was just not worth the cost for many people. He said health insurance contributions had risen by 257 per cent in four years. I repeat that contributions had risen by 257 per cent in four years. Even if funds removed the more comprehensive benefits such as dental and optical, contributions had still increased by 215 per cent compared with the consumer price index rise of 135 per cent. 
He said that in four years there had been eight major changes to the system. A national policy on health with clear objects needed to be designed rather than the ad hoc changes which had occurred as the result of budgetary pressures. The cost per medical service had risen from an average cost unit of $6.50 under a Labor government in 1974 to a projected $16.52 by June 1980. That is an increase of 162 per cent. That was stated by the secretary of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. I think all honourable members know that the Voluntary Health Insurance Association is the lobbying group for the private funds. 
It is depressing that health insurance and health care costing in Australia are being administered to a large extent by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet rather than by the Department of Health. The other day I was sorry to see that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  brought out Press statement 85/79 which obviously he did not have checked by his Department. In urging people to continue medical insurance from 1 September, he spoke about the obligations on people to pay up to $20 towards the cost of medical services on each visit to a doctor. The statement continued: 
Some illnesses required a number of different services and a number of visits over a period of time, and the total cost could be high. 
The statement then cited the Minister's personal experience: 
For example, a simple injury (like the chipped bone in his wrist he had sustained recently) would involve a number of consultations with his doctor, together with X-rays and pathology tests. 
Obviously, if he had had that statement checked by his Department he would have found that if the doctor who was treating him charged him on the basis of individual consultations, he was breaking the law. There is a single item for a fracture of the wrist. It is certainly interesting to hear that the Minister had to have pathology tests for a fractured wrist. The only sorts of pathology tests that would be carried out by a hospital in the case of an injury of that kind would be blood alcohol tests or something of that description and I am sure that such tests would not have been indicated in the case of the Minister. 
Let us look at what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said today at Question Time. In my question I suggested that the increased costs in health insurance alone would exceed the benefits to all those people in Australia on or below average weekly earnings. I think the Treasurer, having answered lots of questions on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today, got rattled. He gave a perfectly honest reply. He said: 'Well, if you do not pay extra for health insurance, we will have to keep the surcharge going forever'. That is exactly the point that we are making. It is a sleight of hand trick. The Government reduces taxation but puts on a compulsory tax in some other way. Surely taxation is a contract between a government and its people, that for a certain amount of money, collected on a progressive basis generally from a community, it will deliver certain services to that community. If it fails to deliver certain services in exchange for that taxation, then that lack of delivery can be considered to be an increase in taxation. 
This Government, in the olden days at least, has often proclaimed itself to be a low tax government. Of course, we know and I think the people of Australia now know, that it is an extremely high tax government. The total of taxes and charges which the Government will collect this year is $27,000m. That represents a 54 per cent increase in revenue since this Government came to power. Specifically as far as income tax is concerned, this year the income tax received from individuals has been increased by 1 8.2 per cent and the increase in revenue generally is 1 5.4 per cent. Now a higher proportion of total revenue comes from income tax than was the case before. This is a government which claims that it is a low tax government and that it wants people to be able to decide for themselves where they spend their money. That is completely untrue. 
The Government has what I would call a yo-yo policy concerning health insurance. The Minister, in defending the new charges by the funds this year, says in his statements that they are better than the charges in November 1978. But the time with which he should compare the charges is of course November 1 975 when he became the Minister. There has been a very significant increase in costs to every Australian family since November 1975. It is easy to compare the present with pre-November 1978. Last year on an annual basis the Government injected some $650m into the health scheme. But now it has withdrawn that money. The people will have to pay for it in another way. The Government has now decided that the money it was collecting as a surcharge to pay for that $650m contribution to the health care system it will now return as a political gimmick. But the people will have to pay in some other way. It is exactly the same sort of gimmick as the social security and veterans ' affairs indexation gimmick. 
The Government gets a lot of publicity and tries to get a lot of political kudos by saying that it is introducing six-monthly indexation from next May. Of course, the point is that this Government abolished six-monthly indexation. We had six-monthly indexation. This Government abolished six-monthly indexation last October. The Labor Party opposed the abolition of six-monthly indexation. In February this year one of the first motions that we moved in this House was to reintroduce six-monthly indexation. The Government voted against that proposal. If we look at the cost of health insurance in Australia, we find that it is difficult to judge who is doing the ripping off. 
During the recent holidays I went overseas. I went to Japan and China. Before leaving I decided that whilst I do not have any health insurance in Australia I had better take out some health insurance to cover me while overseas. For $29 1 took out health insurance for 30 days for a $6,000 cover. For $43 one can get insurance for 60 days for a $6,000 cover. That covers up to $6,000 worth of hospital and medical expenses and expenditure on drugs. It also covers one for anything that is stolen from one's luggage and for travel and accommodation expenses of relatives or friends who may have to act as escorts if one has some medical problems. In the event of death, the body is brought back to Australia, if one is keen on that sort of thing. This insurance covers a person for loss of accommodation expenses and travel expenses because of strikes or because of some other unforeseen circumstances. All this is offered to the public for $43 for 60 days. Sixty days is more than eight weeks so we will call that eight weeks at about $5 a week. For $5 a week one gets all that cover no matter where he is overseas. He can be in much more expensive countries than Australia. He gets full hospital and medical cover for $5 a week. Yet, in Australia, to get the same sort of cover, he would have to pay something in the order of $20 a week. Why do Australians have to pay about $20 a week to get this sort of cover in Australia, whilst if they were overseas they could get that cover for $5 a week? Surely the Minister can do better than that. 
Let me now deal with an amendment which was foreshadowed yesterday relating to changes to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. This amendment allows for an increase of 25c from $2.50 to $2.75 per item available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. That in itself is a significant increase for many people in the community but it is especially so for the disadvantaged person. This Government quite correctly provides that a doctor can treat a patient as a disadvantaged patient and the Government will pay a fee of 75 per cent in full payment for that treatment. The term 'disadvantaged person' certainly includes people, for example, who are on unemployment benefits or sickness benefits or on many other social security benefits without having the benefit of the pensioner health card. These people still have to pay $2.75 for each individual prescription. 
If a person who is on unemployment benefits attends a doctor he gets medical treatment, provided the doctor agrees, for nothing. The Government pays for this under bulk billing and I agree it should. But if these people need to have two prescriptions filled because of some acute condition and many times they do- one treatment for the infection and another treatment to stop the cough or the pain or whatever- they are liable for an amount of $5.50. There ought to be some provision for this. 1 know that the Opposition has repeatedly asked for it, I am sure that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has asked for it, and I would not be surprised if the Australian Medical Association has asked for it. It should be possible that if a patient can be declared a disadvantaged patient by the doctor for the purposes of medical treatment he can be declared a disadvantaged patient for the purposes of the supply of pharmaceuticals. 
In an aside last night the Treasurer also mentioned that there will be a reduction in the list of those pharmaceuticals available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act and that the aim is a reduction in cost to the Government of $20m in this financial year. It is quite obvious that a reduction of $20m in government expenditure on pharmaceuticals in this financial year will involve the withdrawal of a very significant proportion of pharmaceuticals from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. This is wrong. It is a bad way of approaching this matter. Until now, governments have always taken the line that they appoint an advisory committee to recommend to the Government what kind of substances should be available under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. There should not be this sort of pressure on the committee to knock relevant and important drugs off that list. I forecast now that honourable members of this Parliament on both sides of the House will receive many complaints when these changes are carried out. I hope they are carried out before the next Federal elections. It will be interesting to see how long the Government will be prepared to stand up to the pressure from all the groups in the community which will be complaining about the removal of very important drugs from the list, drugs which are used for chronic conditions or whatever. It is interesting to note that the Ralph Committee has not reported as yet, or certainly the report has not been tabled in this House. That, in turn, will cause an increase in the cost of pharmaceuticals. Therefore, drugs valued at more than $20m may be removed from the types of pharmaceuticals provided. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-The Opposition supports this legislation. Basically, we agree with the arguments as put by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech on 6 June 1 979.I remind the House of the main contents of the legislation. There is a deletion of the provision that if people suffer any illness whatever within two weeks of returning to Australia they have to report that illness to the Department of Health. I do not think that particular provision has been enforced for some considerable time. I must admit that as a medical practitioner in practice until the time I became a member of this House, I was not aware of that piece of legislation. Therefore, I would never have advised a patient that he had to notify the Department. There are a number of notifiable diseases. It does seem much more rational to deal with problems of specific diseases. The other parts of the legislation amend the original Act so as to effect an improvement. I think they provide for better methods of giving power to quarantine officers both at the point of entry into Australia and when dealing with suspected breaches of the Act. Warrants must be obtained to carry out certain procedures. The Opposition supports that method of dealing with things. In passing, I would like to refer to a section of the original Act which is not to be amended by this piece of legislation. I draw the Minister's attention to it. I came across it when I was looking at the original Act. Section 86D of the current Act reads: 
In every prosecution for an offence against this Act or the regulations the averment of a prosecutor contained in the information shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be deemed to be proved. 
That section was inserted into the Act back in 1920. 1 think we have different views now on the question of onus of proof. When the Act is reviewed again it may be worthwhile having a look at that particular section. The House debated similar issues in the case of legislation dealing with narcotics. I know that there are difficulties in proving that a particular substance has been imported from overseas once it is inside the country, but I think that it is also important that the onus of proof not be reversed whenever it is possible not to do so. On behalf of the Opposition I express our agreement to the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 6 June 1 979: 
1 ) Has he received representations from the Queensland Air Force Association concerning the case of 1 50 ex-service airmen in Australia who eluded capture when shot down behind enemy lines in Europe and are now requesting the privileges of medical care given to ex-POWs. 
) Will he consider this request sympathetically. 
-Can the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  tell me just what that motion means exactly. Does it mean that items such as matters of public importance will be removed from the Notice Paper? 
Can the Minister give the House any indication as to when he expects Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) to be passed through the House? During the Autumn sittings there was a suggestion that certain estimates committees would be set up. I understand that the Government has now changed its mind on this matter. Could we have some clarification as to what the Government's plan is? 
-I support the reference of this project to the Public Works Committee. I am indeed pleased that this was finally achieved when a new member for the seat of Griffith appeared on the scene. We now find that by 1979, that new member, who has been a member of this House for only just over a year, has been able to achieve this. It gives me even greater pleasure to support the reference of this work because I assume that this Government, and all governments for that matter, have only a limited amount of money to spend on airports each year. I am aware that expenditure on an alternative airport in my electorate has been suggested. The people in my electorate apparently are not nearly as keen about having an airport in their area as are the people in all the electorates in the Brisbane area to have one up there. I wish them luck. I hope that the Government is not niggardly in its expenditure on the proposed extensions. I can assure the Government that the people of Sydney are prepared to take a waiting position pending the conclusion of the Brisbane airport project, and possibly work on other airports around the country, before any extensions are made in Sydney. 
-This legislation is part of the Government's Budget. The disbenefits apply immediately; the benefits apply very late. This legislation which imposes an extra 25c on the patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefit prescriptions is being rushed through this House today and will come into force this Saturday. I assume that the Government will try to rush it through the Senate tomorrow so that the extra money can be collected as soon as possible. Six-monthly indexation of pensions will be reintroduced in May 1980. For 10 months of this financial year the Government will benefit from the collection of this additional prescription charge as it will benefit from the abolition of the 40 per cent refund on medical fees and as it will benefit from the 25 per cent increase in hospital charges. The Government will get those benefits for 10 months of this financial year. But the restoration of benefits for people will come about next year. The restoration of sixmonthly indexation will take effect as from May 1980. So much for the honesty of this Government. 
The Opposition will oppose this legislation. On behalf of the Opposition, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the provision of prescriptions free of charge for patients determined in an equitable fashion as being disadvantaged '. 
We have been told that the Government wants this legislation passed very quickly, and only half an hour has been provided for debate on it. Normally that would mean I would be the only member of the Opposition who would have an opportunity to speak. However, we have arranged for three speakers from the Opposition side. Therefore, I will concentrate on just a couple of aspects of this legislation. I do, however, appeal to the Government that, as a large amount of money is involved in pharmaceutical benefits, it should at some stage allow a much longer debate on the whole purpose of pharmaceutical benefits, and the purpose in having a so-called free list. Of course there is no longer a free list because a prescription charge of $2.75 is to take effect from next Saturday. Clearly, those honourable members who have some views on this matter ought to be given an opportunity to indicate to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and to the Government as a whole what their views are as to what kinds of items ought to be on the pharmaceutical benefits list, how extensive they should be, who should get the benefits et cetera. This is not possible today because, as I said earlier, my speaking time has been cut to 10 minutes. 
The legislation includes more than just an increase in the patient contribution from $2.50 to $2.75. Those items which are at present costed at between $2.50 and $2.75 will be deleted from the list. I have seen a figure of, I think, 220 for these items. An item which now costs, let us say, $2.60 will no longer cost $2.60, because the method of charging by pharmacists will alter considerably when the item is removed from the pharmaceutical benefit list. There are special agreements between the Government and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia as to the method of pricing. I have referred to this matter previously. I draw the attention of the House to my contribution on page 3297 of  Hansard  during a similar debate on 8 June 1 978. 1 pointed out that it may well happen, because of the different method of charging once an item is removed from the benefits list, that an item which now costs the Government $2.60- that is a real cost of only 10c because, after all, the patient contributes $2.50- will increase in its cost to the patient from $2.50 to about $4. The dispensing fee will increase from $1.35 to $2. The mark-up will increase from 25 per cent to a higher amount varying from chemist to chemist. 
It is also interesting to note in the Budget Speech- the Minister does not refer to this in his second reading speech on this Bill- that it is proposed to reduce the expenditure on pharmaceutical benefits by another $20m. There will be a reference to the Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Advisory Committee asking it to remove prescribable items from the list of pharmaceutical benefits to save the Government $20m. An item in the  Australian  newspaper of 23 August contains a reference to  Mr Kelly  from the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. I do not know how  Mr Kelly  would know but he said that another 700 items will probably be removed from the pharmaceutical benefits list. I do not know on what basis the Committee will remove these items. All I can say is that there will be many very disappointed people in the community who will no longer be able to get the medicines to which they have become used. The medicines will become expensive for a large number of people. 
The increase from $2.50 to $2.75 could have been justified, I feel, if the Government had said that it would use the savings involved- the saving forecast for the next 10 months of this financial year is $5.1m, therefore the saving for a whole year works out to be about $6m- for the purpose of providing free prescriptions for disadvantaged persons in the community. It would have been possible to argue a sound case that those in the community who are reasonably well off ought to pay an extra 25c for their prescriptions on the basis of consumer price index increases, provided that the money is used for the benefit of those who really need it. Of course, that has not happened. That is the suggestion of the Opposition. It is not alone in the proposition. The Pharmacy Guild and other organisations have strongly supported it. 
It is difficult to tell how many people are being bulk-billed at present for 75 per cent of their medical costs on the basis of their being disadvantaged. I have some figures which suggest that about 1 10,000 consultation items are being paid for each month by bulk billing. I have calculated that if those figures are correct and as the average number of prescriptions per consultation is approximately two, if we multiply the figure of 1 10,000 by $5.50-that will be the cost of two prescriptions at $2.75 each- by 12 to give a yearly total, the figure will be about $7m a year which corresponds with the saving to the Government by increasing the cost of a prescription by 25c. 
I appeal to the Government and to the Minister to look at the problem of disadvantaged people. We do not propose a specific method of deciding who those disadvantaged people are. We know of the argument that if we introduced means tests or required the production of certificates a large administrative cost would be involved. The Minister will probably make that point. Whilst we do not support the proposition that the doctor ought to have the final say as to who is disadvantaged, we accept the existence of that scheme. As the doctor who bulk bills a patient has to provide one of the forms which he fills out in triplicate to that patient telling him that he has been bulk billed, what the charge was et cetera, it ought to be possible for the patient to take that form to the chemist and claim on the free list a prescription prescribed at that time. 
It is very difficult at present for people who are on sickness benefits, for example. To obtain sickness benefits they have to have a weekly income of less than $6 a week. If a person on such a low income or any member of his family is sick, attends a doctor and obtains an average of two prescriptions per consultation, he will have to pay $5.50. The Government has accepted the proposition that such people are unable to pay for the consultation with the doctor. There is not much point in saying that a person can see a doctor for nothing and the Government will pick up the tab if the Government is not prepared to pick up the tab for the cost involved in carrying out the advice of the medical practitioner whom that person has seen. It seems self-evident to me that in the long run greater costs could be involved. More and more people will attempt to attend out-patients departments and casualty departments of public hospitals. In some cases they will not attend anywhere when they ought to see a medical practitioner or they will attend a medical practitioner, get prescriptions and when they are told by the pharmacist that the cost of the prescriptions will be $5.50 they will say: 'I do not have the money. I will let it run. ' If only a small proportion of those people finish up as inpatients in a public hospital the Government will have lost all the benefit of the savings obtained by not providing free pharmaceutical benefits for disadvantaged persons. 
My final point is that the Government set up the so-called Ralph committee sometime last year. I think it is due to report this week. I assume that the report will be tabled in this House. To put it mildly, it seems extremely discourteous and typical of the Government's health policy that it should appoint a committee to make recommendations to it and then go ahead and change its pharmaceutical policy significantly a couple of days before that committee report has been received. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the reason for my concluding my remarks so soon is not that there is not much to be said about the whole principle behind the pharmaceutical benefits scheme but that the Government in its aggressive stance of obtaining extra money from the Australian population from 1 September has indicated that all speakers on this side of the House will be given a total of only half an hour in which to speak. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a ruling by a judge of the United States of America Federal Trade Commission that the American Medical Association's restriction on medical practitioner advertising had caused substantial injury to the public, served to deprive consumers of the free flow of information about the availability of health care services, deterred the offering of innovative forms of health care and stifled the rise of almost every type of health care delivery that would potentially pose a threat to the incomes of feeforservice physicians in private practice. 
If so, will he ask the Trade Practices Commission to look into similar restrictions applied in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
Who are the persons appointed to investigate the allegations against unknown person(s) in the Commonwealth Narcotics Bureau. 
-The Treasurer is no doubt aware that a number of professional organisations use the pretence of overseas conferences as a method of obtaining holidays largely paid for by Treasury. Is he aware that the Australian Association of Surgeons in co-operation with Ansett Airlines of Australia is doing this in Fiji next month for, as it puts it, up to 20 days and 19 nights? Does he approve of the fact that two attractions apart from tax deductibility being featured for this conference are a talk on 'Practice Management for Surgeons and their Wives' and the appearance of the Minister for Finance? Who will pay for the Minister's trip to Fiji? May I add that the Premier of Queensland did not supply me with this information? 
It is a great pity that the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  after finishing his lay preaching performance, did not have the chance to destroy the Australian Taxpayers Association. He left it until after the light came on indicating that he had only one minute left to speak before he offered to do so. Undoubtedly he will get another chance. The Government is very impressed by his ability to do it. None of the other Government speakers have been able to. 
Let me deal first with some of the broad aspects of the Budget. The most important aspect of this Budget is that it increases taxation and confirms that this is a high tax government. Under it total income tax paid by individuals will increase by over $2,324m this year, that is, from $12,803m to $15, 128m. This compares with an increase of less than $700m the year before. Last year everybody attacked the Government for being a high tax government because it introduced a levy- a special surcharge- for one year which, of course, it kept on. However, total personal income tax collections increased by less than $700m. This year they will increase by over $2,324m. I refer honourable members who may query this to page 257 of  Hansard  on which is set out part of the Budget Speech made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on Tuesday, 24 August 1979. 
This is a particularly high tax government. Taxation has increased each year. Personal income tax collections have increased each year at a higher rate than inflation. The Government predicts that wages will increase by approximately 9 per cent over the year, that inflation will increase by 10 per cent over the year and that taxation paid by individuals will increase by 1 5.4 per cent during the year. That is a huge increase in taxation from a government which pretends to be a low-tax government. That increase is quite apart from the imposition of extra charges, be they related to increases in hospital charges or to the abolition of benefits. 
-I am not talking about that. What I am saying is that this Government pretends to be a low tax government. Each year under the present Government taxation has increased at a higher rate than inflation and this year the Budget prediction is that the increase will be over 50 per cent more than the increase in the rate of inflation. 
If the Government wants to stand on its record we will be very happy to accommodate an election at any time, but it wants only to stand on other people's records. It should stand on its own record. It was elected as a low tax government but has increased taxation more than any other government has done. Of course, everybody in the community is aware that taxes have increased so significantly. 
Let me look at some of the dishonesty of this Budget. I know that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is perturbed about it- he has told me he is perturbed about dishonesty generally- and that is why he is such a good  chairman  of the Expenditure Committee of this House. It is a great pity that the Government does not give him a go at more important jobs. The bad things in this Budget, the things that cost people money, are to apply immediately. The 25 per cent increase in hospital charges has been introduced from 1 September and so will apply for 10 months of the financial year. The abolition of the Commonwealth contribution of 40 per cent of medical charges will take effect from 1 September and this too will apply for 10 months of this year. The patient contribution for pharmaceutical benefits is to increase from 1 
September and will also apply for 10 months of this year. What about the reintroduction of sixmonthly indexation? That will be introduced on 1 May 1980 but will apply for only two months of this financial year? The reintroduction of sixmonthly indexation of repatriation pensions will be introduced from 1 May next year also but it too will apply for only two months of this financial year. That is the honesty of this Government. The Government last year imposed a 1 .5 per cent surcharge on taxation to apply for one year. It had to be collected at the rate of 2.57 per cent because it was collected over only eight months of the year. However, the Government did not abolish it on 30 June and is continuing it for a further five months at the rate of 2.57 per cent. The taxpayer pays that immediately. The reintroduction of six-monthly indexation which this Government abolished last November is scheduled for May of this year. It too will apply for only two months of the financial year. An average single income family of four will be about $7.90 a week worse off through the overall impact of the Budget. The Government has dealt particularly savagely with the single income family. It has done nothing about family allowances. 
-I will explain quite clearly what we did about it and I seek leave to incorporate a table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909125_54_4.jpg"></graphic>

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The table shows quite clearly that under the tax rebate system which was introduced during the last Hayden Budget, the tax rebate per child, indexed as taxation has been indexed until this year, would have been $5.60 per week per child for a tax paying family plus 50 cents child endowment for the first child. 
Admittedly that is a small amount but it came to $6.10 a week. What do people now get? The family allowance for the first child is $3.50 compared with the $6.10 paid previously. So a family with one child loses $2.60 a week. Similarly, the table shows that a family with two children loses $4.20 a week, a family with three children loses $5.80 a week, and so on. If a family has six children it loses over $10 a week because of the Government's attitude to family allowances. This Government has attacked the family in every possible way. It has continually attacked the family. It has made it very difficult for singleincome families to continue to exist in this country. Single-income families are being punished continually. Each year the Government floats the proposition that single-income families will be able to split their income so as to get the benefits which exist for two-income families. Each year in this way the Government builds up the hopes of many of the poorest families of this country and each year it fails to do what it has said it would do. It has done it again this year. 
I would also like to deal tonight with some of the health insurance aspects of the Budget. It was a welcome change to read the Australian Medical Association's latest Press statement of 31 August, the day before the new health insurance arrangements came into effect.  Dr Lionel  Wilson who, I think, is from the electorate of Barton and I suppose, to some extent, has been a very vocal supporter and possibly a member of the Liberal Party in the past, had this to say, amongst other things, about this Government and its health care policy: 
One difficulty is that health care policy has largely ceased to be a matter for health departments and health ministers, who might know something about it. Instead it has been taken over by departments of treasury and the like. 
Last year's health insurance changes had nothing to do with your health. They were intended to doctor the consumer price index. Tomorrow's changes are designed to relieve the Government of the high cost of the previous arrangement. Considerations of health do not enter into it. 
These are the words of a prominent member of the Liberal Party in Australia and the  President  of the Australian Medical Association- an organisation which has continuously gone out onto the hustings to support this Government. He said quite clearly that the current crisis in health care lies not in the global amount spent on health care in this country but in the unholy mess that this Government has made of our health care system. 
-I am prepared to leave that to his statement. I am confident that the honourable member is wrong on that point. 
He has been a very prominent supporter of the Liberal Party in the past. What  Dr Wilson  said on behalf af the AMA is in many ways similar- almost word for word- to what I have said. I differ from him in only one aspect of what he said when talking about the making of a health care policy. He said: 'Instead, it has been taken over by the Department of Treasury and the like'. I have said: 'By the Departments of Treasury and the Prime Minister and Cabinet'. We all know what has happened in regard to the health policy in the last two significant changes, which came in on 1 November 1978 and on 1 September 1979. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  was not even advised of the first change in November 1978 until less than a week before the presentation of the 1978-79 Budget. This year he was advised of proposed changes two days before he had to present them in this House when he returned from an overseas trip and landed at Canberra Airport. So much for the making of an intelligent and rational health policy! 
I do not consider that health insurance per se is the most important aspect of a health policy. The media do so, and I will therefore deal with that matter in greater detail. It is obvious that health care must be paid for by individuals directly, via insurance or via taxation, or a combination of all three or any two of those methods. It is terribly obvious when, occasionally, members from the other side come into the House to say that there is no such thing as a free lunch, free health care or a free something else. They think that they have suddenly hit upon the real profundity of Liberal thought. I find it a little distressing if that is as profound as they can get. It is obviously true. Let us look at the proportion of health expenditure paid by the Commonwealth, by State and local governments and by private sources. In 1974-75- pre-Medibank- the proportions were: Commonwealth, 30 per cent, State and local governments, 32 per cent, and private sources, 38 per cent. In 1975-76- the only year of Medibank- the Commonwealth proportion increased from 30 per cent to 48 per cent; the State and local government proportion dropped from 32 per cent to 24 per cent; and the private sources proportion dropped from 38 per cent to 28 per cent. 
In 1977-78- the latest figures made available by the Government in answer to a question- the Commonwealth proportion had decreased from 48 per cent to 37 per cent; the State and local government proportion had remained fairly steady at 25 per cent; and the private sources proportion had increased from 28 per cent to 38 per cent. The changes introduced at the end of last year would have increased the proportion of the Commonwealth contribution because of changes that were introduced at that time. I will deal with those changes in a moment. I estimate that the Commonwealth proportion went up to about 41 per cent and that the private sources proportion went down to about 34 per cent or 35 per cent as a result of those changes. If we deal with the proportion of expenditure on medical services- the others were health services in toto- we see that before Medibank the Commonwealth proportion was 46 per cent, went up to 91 per cent of total expenditure during Medibank and then dropped to 34 per cent in 1977-78 after Medibank. It would have increased significantly again last year when the Government adopted the proposition in regard to medical fees it would pay all amounts above $20 and 40 per cent of those fees up to $20. Figures are not available for that period I do not want to guess at them- but private sources paid the difference. They therefore paid a proportion of 54 per cent pre-Medibank, 9 per cent during Medibank and 64 per cent post-Medibank in 1977-78. 1 think that these are important figures for people who want to come to some sort of rational conclusion what to do about the health system. 
The Labor Party believes, and I think that most people now agree, that adequate health care is a right in a country like Australia and that the basic costs should be shared between the sick and the healthy. Of course, that is a feasible proposition when one wants to pay for it by taxation, by which the cost is obviously shared by the sick and the healthy, or when one tries to introduce compulsory insurance where again the risk is spread. The Labor Party also believesagain I feel that we have majority support on this-that the cost should be shared in a progressive manner. What I mean by that is, in a sense, a progressive taxation that is related to one's income. One who earns more should pay a greater proportion of health costs, as they do for lots of other services in the community such as the provision of roads, education, the police force or anything else. We believe that the public should have the choice between health care provided by health professionals, remunerated on a fee for service basis, on a salary basis, on a sessional fee basis, on a capitation fee basis fee or a capitation fee plus bonus basis, which of course is the basis of the health maintenance organisations. 
We are all aware that a fee for service system may encourage doctors to overservice their patients; in other words, do more than they need to do. Other systems may encourage them to underservice their patients. Competition between the schemes will act as a better control and such aids as peer reviews may help. I do not consider this proposal to be revolutionary, but I do consider it to be evolutionary. Obviously it would take time. I would emphasise that for three years the present Government has played yo-yo with health insurance. Any one of the changes could be supported by rational argument. I could easily be persuaded that any one of those changes may be reasonable changes, whilst they cannot all be in the right direction. On a number of occasions they have been in opposite directions. I remind the House that this Government introduced a compulsory levy following the changes to the Medibank system which had no levy. There was a compulsory levy or compulsory private cover. It then abolished compulsion and ended the levy. I emphasise that it injected $665m into health care. It did that in one year by its action dating from 1 November 1978 of abolishing the levy and by paying 40 per cent of the first $20 of a medical service and all above that $20.00. Finally, 10 months after the 1 November 1978 experiment, it removed $2 10m from the Budget by abolishing the contribution for the 85 per cent of services which cost less than $20. In many cases these steps were in opposite directions. They obviously cannot all be in the right direction. 
It is interesting to note that a return to Medibank Mark I would have cost the Government an extra $200m last year and about $400m following the changes dating from 1 September. One could argue about the accuracy of the figures within $20m or $30m, but I think that my figures are fairly accurate. In fact, the Minister for Health, in his latest statement, which I do not have with me, basically agrees with that estimate. I emphasise that Commonwealth Government expenditure in this year on medical and health services will be $3, 165m. The figures that I have estimated for a return to Medibank- I am not necessarily saying that that is what one should be aiming at- are relevant for any intelligent discussion. It is a pity that they are often misquoted. 
The Minister for Health, in a statement which I think was delivered in July, said that the cost of reintroducing Medibank would be $700m. He came to the conclusion in a statement after the Budget that the total cost would be $ 1,000m. Medical services paid for by the Government this year will amount to $65 7m. But the Minister said that the reintroduction of Medibank would bring that expenditure to $ 1,000m. So the total extra cost would be only about $350m, although I estimate it is probably more than that. Finally, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came into the House yesterday and produced a figure of $600m. Figures of $700m, $350m and $600m have been mentioned. I think that the figure of $3 50m mentioned by the Minister for Health in his latest statement was closer to the real figure. It is difficult to forecast the exact figure because it depends on how many people take advantage of the subsidised health benefits available for a larger number of pensioners from the beginning of next year. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Health Insurance Commission awarded a contract to Thomas Nationwide Transport involving payment of Medibank staff previously carried by the Department of Finance. 
If so, were tenders called. 
Are any of the part-time health insurance commissioners also employees or directors of TNT. 
I advise the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  that he should get a loudspeaker system when he next speaks at a meeting in his town because he obviously has a quite significant case of laryngitis. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  Honourable members on my right will remain silent. The honourable member for Prospect has completed his diagnosis. He is allowed to proceed. 
-I hope that I am allowed to proceed notwithstanding the reaction from the other side. What I am going to speak about now may be accorded more unanimity in this House. I made a trip overseas during the recess. I arranged with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to see Vietnamese refugees who had recently arrived in camp in Hong Kong. This was on about 16 August. I think it is well to remember that there was a conference in Geneva on about 2 1 July of this year at which the Vietnamese Government agreed not to push people out of the country, at least not at the rate at which it had been doing so until then. While in Hong Kong I was taken by the Hong Kong authorities to the first staging camp which is basically a quarantine camp in 
Hong Kong harbour. Two boats had just arrived. They were relatively small fishing boats, one with 66 persons aboard, the other with 73 persons aboard. I suggest to those honourable members who have significant reservations about allowing Vietnamese refugees to enter this country that they may feel more humanely disposed towards them if they see them when they arrive. They had literally nothing. What few possessions they had were wrapped up in some cloth. There were many small children amongst them- very young children. In fact, there was one baby amongst them who had been born while the mother was on the boat getting out of Vietnam. 
I interviewed some of the people who had arrived. As I said, there were two groups. The second group was made up of people who had left Vietnam after 2 1 July. They had left without the knowledge of the Vietnamese Government. They had left from North Vietnam in those two fishing boats. They assured me that they were real refugees in the sense that we talk about refugees. In other words, they had received no cooperation from the Vietnamese Government and they felt sure that if the Vietnamese Government had known of their leaving the country, it would have taken action to prevent their leaving and they would have been in serious trouble. I also interviewed people who had arrived earlier. They had left Vietnam before 2 1 July, before the agreement in Geneva. Those people had come from South Vietnam. They had paid between $2,000 and $3,000 a head in gold to the Vietnamese authorities. As they put it, they had been taken by the Vietnamese security forceswhatever that may mean- in trucks from South Vietnam up to Haiphong harbour in North Vietnam. They were put on boats with petrol, food, et cetera and taken out to sea by security forces, as they again put it, and pointed in the direction of Hong Kong. They then went up the China coast. The Chinese Government co-operates, as I was told by the Hong Kong authorities, in the sense that it provides them with further food, water and petrol and helps them with repairs if they get into trouble. These groups of refugees just go along the Chinese coast until they finally reach Hong Kong. 
Large numbers of refugees are at present in Hong Kong. On the day I was there there were some 68,000 Vietnamese refugees in Hong Kong in addition to the illegal immigrants from China. The Hong Kong Government is very worried about the fact that we are taking relatively few of these refugees. I can understand why we are taking only a few of them relative to our total quota. They are relatively better off in Hong Kong than they are in Malaysian and Thailand camps and we obviously give preference to people who are in worse trouble. As far as I can make out, once they leave the original transitional camp and go into other camps further inside the city of Hong Kong, they are apparently able to obtain jobs. In fact, there is a shortage of workers in Hong Kong at the present time, and the refugees are able to mix into the local society. I do wish that some of the people in this country, who sling off at the refugees and claim that they are not true refugees but prostitutes and whatever else they are alleged to be, could see these refugees when they arrive in Hong Kong, and see that they are - 
If I may concentrate more on the position in this country - 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
Does the Minister for Health recall that in a Press statement of 20 July this  year he stated that the reintroduction of Medibank in its original form would cost an extra $400m, that in a speech on 22 August, as recorded at page 450 of  Hansard,  he stated that it would cost an extra $500m, and that the Prime Minister stated on 1 1 September, as recorded at page 936 of  Hansard,  that it would cost an extra $600m? When can we expect the bidding to stop? Could he and the Prime Minister provide us with material to support each of the estimates? 
-The Opposition supports the motion moved by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  for very obvious reasons. This is an extremely difficult Bill. It is an important piece of legislation dealing with the civil liberties, the protection and the security of the citizens of this country. Let me remind the House that we are not setting up a new organisation. The Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation is already in existence. There are two Acts which it is proposed to repeal under this Bill. I am prepared to agree that certain improvements are being brought in under this legislation. Honourable members on this side of the House, whilst they can see lots of objections to the Bill as it stands, still accept the proposition that there should be an Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation. Secondly, and just as importantly, they accept that the functions of that organisation and its method of working should be quite clearly defined. What honourable members in the Opposition do worry about is how it will protect Australia from people who are dangerous to its security. 
As soon as one starts talking about security one gets into a difficult position because what one person, a group of people or even the Government may consider to be a threat to the security of the country need not necessarily be accepted by others as a threat to the security of this country. One of the things that worries me most about this security intelligence organisation is that I have significant doubts about the intelligence of some of its members. When I talk about intelligence I am using the word not in the sense in which it is used in the Organisation but in the sense in which it is normally used in conversation. I do not consider that people generally connected with security intelligence organisations are politically literate. It is one of my greatest worries that the sort of people who are put in charge of security intelligence organisations, or who gravitate into prominent positions within those organisations, have a very narrow view as to what kind of political actions ought to be allowed in a country and what kind of actions are well within the limits with which a democracy can easily deal. 
If one accepts the proposition that there are totalitarian countries in the world which are trying to undermine the security of this country, the most important aspect of the difference between them and us is that totalitarianism. If we cannot avoid the totalitarianism which they embrace and use continuously there is not much point in defending our kind of security. That is the important point. If in fact we behave as Russian or Vietnamese or right wing dictatorships behave, we are not behaving any differently and the whole reason for opposing such regimes disappears. It certainly disappears as far as I am concerned. 
I turn to the particular points of this legislation that this proposed committee ought to look at. We would like the committee to consider the definitions or the redefinitions of the concept of security and the element of subversion in order to narrow their scope and to limit the possibility of their misapplication. They are among the most important points of the legislation. In otherwords, the proposed committee should define the aim of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and state exactly what it should be looking for, what exactly is subversion. It should determine when a perfectly legitimate point of view, though possibly considered to be extreme by some members of the community, is subversive. Just because it is extreme does not make it subversive. It does not pose a threat to the security of this country. 
The important aspect of the whole aim of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation legislation is that it should make clear that the aim of that Organisation is not to protect a particular government, a particular political party or even the two, three or four main political parties in the mainstream of Australian life. That is not the aim or should not be the aim of an Australian security intelligence organisation. I disagree with nearly all, if not all, of the political organisations with which, I assume, ASIO normally deals. I do not think that people have considered me for a long time to be extreme in my point of view. Just because one disagrees with organisations or individuals does not mean that they should be barred from employment or have their telephone tapped and conversations listened into. Before any of those actions are allowed there needs to be a clear cut danger to Australia. If we define security and subversion in a sense so broad that it encompasses anything which would involve a change in the way of life in this country, it is much too broad. 
What argument would we then have against, for example, the Soviet Union? I suppose that these days it is one of the outstanding examples of a totalitarian country. What reason could we possibly have then for opposing the activities of its type of security intelligence organisation, the KGB. It exists because the Russians do not allow any sort of opposition. They try to prevent any sort of opposition which they consider is in disagreement with the form of government which they have at present. They consider any threat to their form of government to be subversive. They consider that anybody who says anything against the Soviet state inside the Soviet Union is spreading malicious propaganda against the state and is a threat to their security. 
It is terribly important for all of us to realise that the distinction between democratic countries and non-democatic countries is relatively narrow. The most important differentiation between democratic countries and undemocratic and totalitarian countries is that in democratic countries people have a right to disagree with the governments in those countries and the right to organise to remove those governments. I agree that it is unfortunate that there are people in this world- as a number of people have pointed out in this debate- who do not accept what we consider to be the political process. In other words, they are not prepared to rely on persuasion, propaganda, rational argument, voting, meetings, marches or whatever else is considered to be part of the democratic way of life. Some of them believe in assassination, hijacking or whatever other alternatives are being used by terrorist organisations all over the world. 
Australia has been extremely lucky as we have not had a significant number of those sorts of episodes. As far as I know, with the exception of the Hilton bombing- we are not 100 per cent sure what happened there, but assuming that the Hilton bombing was some type of terrorist attackvery few, if any, terrorist attacks have happened in Australia. For example, there is no evidence that the so-called left wing extremists have ever done anything terribly dangerous in this country. I am not aware of anything particularly dangerous that they have done. I am not aware that they have ever been really accused, with any sort of backing up of hard facts of having done anything.  As  far as I know, generally speaking the same is true of the right wing. Of course I know, as all honourable members know, that groups, especially in some of the migrant communities, are still carrying on feuds which existed in the countries whence they came. It is deplorable. I suppose that as long as those sorts of organisations and people exist who are prepared to use force or terrorism of other kinds we have to have an organisation to keep tab on them to make sure that they do not use terrorism and injure innocent people in this country. But I do not think anybody in Australia would believe that either left wing or right wing- the Ustasha is commonly mentioned- is a threat to Australian society. 
They behave in an unpleasant and sometimes dangerous way, if one believes what has been said about them. But they are not a threat to society as a whole. Therefore it is important that we define very clearly the questions of security and subversion. For our security organisation to act effectively we have to have bipartisan support in the broadest sense as far as political life in this country is concerned. There ought to be a report to this House by the Director-General of ASIO. I think I heard the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  tonight or last night on a  PM  program supporting that sort of general proposition; that there ought to be reports to the Parliament. Obviously they cannot be specific. 
To the Government and the Leader of the Opposition. I am not sure that that is the best way of doing it but that is the sort of question that ought to be raised before a committee such as that proposed by the honourable member for Wilmot. I am not sure that one ought to impose the burden of informing just one person in this House. Obviously if the whole House is to be informed it would get less information. The important thing is that it ought to be plain to the people who run our intelligence organisations that they are under parliamentary supervision, that the people in general believe in the democratic process, that we do not want ASIO to interfere with what we consider to be legal though perhaps extremely unpopular political movements and that we have to protect the civil liberties of individuals in this society although they may be people who hold the most unpopular views. It is very easy for a society to protect people and be keen on their point of view if they are in the mainstream of society because everybody agrees with them. What distinguishes a democratic society from an undemocratic society is the protection of the right to disagree- to disagree with the vast majority of the people. Some people may be way out but provided they are not obvious risks, in the sense of being terrorists using dangerous weapons, they must not be interfered with. I have concentrated on this aspect of ASIO because I think it is a more important one as far as this Parliament is concerned. At this stage I have ignored ASIO's work, if any, related to foreign spying in this country. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Has he received representations from meat workers concerning the spreading of brucella abortus 
If so, did these representations ask that his Department ensure that reactors would be processed in works where facilities for personal hygiene are available. 
3 ) Would this move greatly reduce the risk not only to the health standards of workers but also to family and community health standards. 
Did he say that it is not possible nor would it be reasonable to demand co-operation from meat exporters and processors, especially if they would suffer financial loss; if so, does he still stand by that statement. 
I wish to support the amendment moved last week by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I would like to speak to three or four areas covered by this amendment in reply to what Government speakers have said. I wish to speak firstly on the question of employment. The Government keeps on emphasising and making the point- which to some extent may be truethat during the last part of the Labor Government's term of office jobs decreased and that this caused unemployment. Let me point out to honourable members what did happen from November 1972 to October 1975, the three years of the Labor Government, and compare that with what happened from November 1975 to June 1977 under the coalition Government. Let us look at total employment figures. In November 1972 this figure was 4,521,000 and by October 1975 it was 4,737,000, an increase of 216,000 people. Those people got jobs during those three years of the Labor Government. Since the coalition Government has taken over the employment figures have increased from 4,737,000 to 4,770,000, an increase of only 33,000. It is obviously insufficient to cope with the extra 80,000 to 100,000 people coming onto the job market each year. That is the reason for the huge increase in unemployment since the coalition Government took over. 
The Government keeps on talking about private and public employment and it implies that public employment is a bad thing. If we look at what has happened between October 1975 and June 1977 in regard to the increase of 33,000, it will be noticed that under the coalition Government there has been an increase of 87,000 in the public employment sector and a decrease of 44,000 in the private sector. It is only because of the increase in the public sector that there has been any increase in employment at all. During the almost four years that the coalition government has been in power, private employment has decreased by 44,000. Even between mid- 1974 and October 1 975 in which the Government refers to a loss of 155,000 jobs under the Labor Government- this is not true- there was a decrease of 62,000 jobs in civilian employment, as it is called. The position peaked at 4,799,000 in June 1974 and went down to 4,737,000 in October 1975. I repeat that over the whole of Labor's period in office there was an increase of 216,000 jobs. There was a huge increase in the number of women who entered the work force during that period. I think it was about 200,000. So much for the situation of employment. 
Let me now deal with the matter of taxation about which this Government used to claim that it felt very strongly. The Government used to claim- I think it still claims in a hollow sort of way- that it is a low tax government. I emphasise again that it is an extremely high tax government. Taxation has increased by a very large amount since this Government came to power. The  Taxpayer,  a journal of the Australian Taxpayers Association which is an independent organisation and one which usually supports the Liberal Party stated: 
Don't swallow the line that the 1  'A  per cent surcharge has been dropped. For the 1 979-80 income year assessments, the rate will be 1 .07 per cent. It will be a little over 7/ lOths of last year's full rate. That gives the lie to official statements that it goes from December; 5/ 12ths of 1  Vi  per cent is .623 cents in the $. That means that the government whacked up the tax rates by almost half a cent, and effectively lifted taxes for most people by nearly 3 per cent by that means alone. 
Without any tax indexation, every person whose income rises by 9 per cent will face a massive increase in the effective tax rate. The lower-incomes fare the worst in percentage terms. 
When trying to gain power,  Mr Fraser  attacked increases in tax which were made by stealth. He complained bitterly that when incomes went up the tax was increasing twice as fast. Seems the bad old days of tax are back, because with incomes rising by 9 per cent, the total tax take leaps by over 1 8 percent. 
I emphasise that that journal states that incomes will rise by 9 per cent and the total tax take will leap by over 1 8 per cent. The journal continues: 
This Budget provides for $3,830,300,000 in extra taxes and that's not the end- the crude oil tax has jumped 430 per cent in under two years with an extra $2,000m going to Canberra through your local petrol pump. But instead of being a true Budget, the figures ignored obvious price rises which will occur this year, and the revenue may jump another $400m. 
I don't know whether some Parliamentarians are dumb at figures, but some might have difficulty running a pie shop. The way some have tried to rubbish our Budget analysis casts serious doubt on whether Australia is getting fair value from some people keeping seats warm in Canberra. 
That is the editorial comment at page 255 in the September 1979 issue of the  Taxpayer.  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a reply from  Mr Risstrom,  the Association's secretary, to a speech made in this House by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume). 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

REPORT MADE TO MEMBERS ON COMMENTS MADE UNDER PRIVILEGE IN PARLIAMENT 
Federal Back-Bencher's Attack and Our Factual Reply 
According to a press release issued by  Mr Michael  Baume, M.P., he made what he termed a "strong attack" in Parliament on our Federal Secretary just one week after the 
Budget. Unfortunately for him, he was incorrect on almost every point he raised and he might have avoided making such a political blunder had he at least checked with us on the real facts- or even read his mail. 
His comments came towards the end of a lengthy Budget debate, and when he found the press had not reported his speech he issued the press statement in the hope of getting some coverage. We thank him for sending us a copy. 
His remarks were directed specifically at Eric Risstrom, but of course one would reasonably regard them as being against the Association. 
He said that we had failed to submit any recommendations to the Government on tax changes before the Budget. 
The facts: The Association conducted its Annual Conference in Melbourne (and it was opened by the Victorian Premier) during March. The proceedings were reported in the press, and through the media, and details were in this journal- which is posted to every federal Member of Parliament, including  Mr Baume. 
The whole of the 24th March issue was devoted to our detailed submissions. 
The Conference Chairman, Peter Walker, and Eric Risstrom, met the Treasurer in his office in Canberra during May. 
Eight matters were highlighted in those discussions- the second on the list being government promises on the abolition of the  'A%  surcharge and the restoration of tax-indexation. 

 Mr Baume also said we should have made a submission before the Budget along the lines of the one made after the Budget- recognising that Eric Risstrom was sufficiently confident of what would happen in the Budget that he prepared a computer program on its consequences. He went on: "He prepared a program expecting it to happen so that after the event he could say how terrible it was. " 
The facts: This Association is always in a position to act quickly. The program was prepared (in under a quarter of an hour) on the afternoon of the Budget and final adjustments were made only after receiving officially the Budget details. 
The computer program enabled us to analyse personal tax liabilities taking into account any or all of these factors; I / Any rate of tax-indexation, or none; 2/ Any projected degree of wage rises (we based published figures on a  9%  increase because the Treasury expected that to be from  9'A%  to 10%; 3/ Any level of indexed tax rates, or differently-based rates; 4/ Maintenance of a 3-step scale, or some change to a scale with more steps. 
It is ludicrous of  Mr Baume  to say we should have lodged such a detailed analysis before the Budget. Until 21st August, we didn't know what was likely to happen. 

 Mr Baume said we had made no attempt whatever to influence the Government. 
The facts:  Mr Baume  received (and doubtless should have read ) the submissions we discussed with the Treasurer. We left with  Mr Howard  some additional copies to be passed on formally to  Mr Baume  's committee. 
If the Treasurer didn't pass on those copies to the Committee as requested, then  Mr Baume  should take up that matter with  Mr Howard  himself. 

 Mr Baume said Eric Risstrom made no approach to the Treasurer . . . 
The facts: Apart from the pre-Budget deputation to  Mr Howard,  Eric Risstrom went to Canberra during July to see  Mr Howard. 

 Mr Baume accused us of having  objected in 1976 to the introduction of personal tax-indexation, and he quoted from our journal. 
The facts: The quotes and the original articles didn't object to the principle of tax-indexation, but merely drew attention to features of the type of scheme (and the way it was immediately watered-down) that was introduced. Admittedly, later we did learn that (although the fixing of the rate of indexation was to be administrative and not subject to any form of appeal), annual rates of tax would come before Parliament. 
Our general comments on need for tax changes 
After the May mini-Budget, in which the Treasurer virtually asked Australians to accept deferment of a decision on what should happen to personal tax rates, we pointed out in journal editorials and in the media the need for taxindexation to be maintained- and how taxes would rise if those promises were not honoured. 
We highlighted at every opportunity over recent months the need for the I 14% tax surcharge to be dropped, and for personal tax-indexation to be restored. 
Association is always alert 

 Mr Baume 's illfated and unfounded attack on us doesn't intimidate the Association. No matter which party is in power, we shall continue to look objectively at tax measures and comment fearlessly. 

 Mr Baume didn't attack the accuracy of our figures, or the validity of our conclusions. He couldn't. In fact, earlier in his speech he admitted that personal tax was rising this year. 
If a government focuses attention on just one facet of their decisions or their policies, government members should not be alarmed and overly defensive if others do their own sums and dig out the real facts. 
-On the question of taxation let me give some examples of the increases in tax. Taxable income of $4,000 in 1978-79 was taxed $35.84. The same income in real value this year will be taxed $154.43. Taxable income of $6,000 last financial year was taxed $705. This year the same income in real value- in other words, updated by 9 per cent- will be taxed $875.36, which is an increase of $170. Nobody can argue that a family with a taxable income of $6,000 can afford that sort of money. Last year a person with a taxable income of $10,000 would have paid $2,045 in tax. This year a person on the same income will pay $2,317, which is an increase of $272 or about $5 a week. That is a huge increase in tax revenue for the Government. 
The Government has continuously increased the amount of money that it collects from petrol. The increase this year is $2,000m but the Government is not giving any reduction in taxation in exchange for that increased revenue as it did last year. It has withdrawn the 40 per cent subsidy paid for the first $20 on medical fees. People are paying more tax but getting less in return from this Government. I emphasise that this Government is an extremely high tax government. It is a government which has been unable and unwilling to some extent to do anything to increase employment because as I pointed out earlier, the number of people in employment increased greatly and at a much faster rate during the three years of Labor Government between November 1972 and October 1975 than it has since 1975. They are the important points as far as tax is concerned. 
Revenue from crude oil has gone up by 430 per cent in less than two years. The revenue estimates are based on current prices so the revenue will be very much higher. I would like to deal with two very minor and peripheral issues and criticise a Minister and also some people in the Department of Foreign Affairs. The other day a document, which is a reasonable document in toto, dealing with the Third World was tabled. That document contains a map. I am sure that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who has been to Europe, will agree that what is shown on that map is a Third World country, namely Malta, is in fact Sicily. Whoever drafted that map is unable to distinguish between Malta and Sicily. I think that neither the people of Malta nor the people of Sicily would be terribly impressed by that mistake. I also refer to a document dealing with news reports of relevance to migrants which was produced by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The document quotes from part of a speech given by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  at the 64th National Congress of the Returned Services League of Australia. The speech defends- and quite justifiably so- the proposition that eligibility for service pensions should be extended to ex-servicemen from Allied countries. The Minister in referring to people who are not eligible said: 
Many of them may not have fought directly for Australia 30 or 40 years ago- indeed many of them were not alive then. But they are now Australian citizens or, at least, Australian residents. They deserve to be treated equally. 
People are eligible for the service pension at the age of 60, so it is very difficult for them not to have been alive 30 or 40 years ago. If people were not alive 30 or 40 years ago, they must have taken some special growth hormones to become eligible now for the Service pension. The Opposition supports the particular changes introduced. We think they were introduced belatedly because promises were made some time ago that these improvements would be made in the benfits or eligibility for Allied ex-servicemen. 
My final point is an important one so far as the honesty of this Government is concerned. As I have said before in this House, it is a dishonest 
Budget in the sense that the bad things in the Budget- for example, the abolition of the 40 per cent medical benefits rebate for the first $20, the increase in hospital fees, and the increase in prescription charges- all came into operation on 1 September for a total of 10 months of this financial year. However some benefits available in the Budget, including the reintroduction of sixmonthly indexation, do not come into force until May 1980. So they will be available for only two months of this financial year. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
How many of his photographs are displayed in Australian government offices (a) overseas and (b) in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
1 ) Are flowers imported into Australia. 
If so, what steps are taken to prevent insect pests being introduced into Australia on flowers. 
Is he completely satisfied that these steps will prevent the introduction of new plant diseases into Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) When was a means test imposed upon the indexation of the aged pension for persons over 70 years of age. 
What has been the saving to the Government since that date. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) Did  Mr N.  G. Cowdrey appear for the Crown in an appeal before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal by  Mr Guiseppe  Sergi against a deportation order? 
If so, did  Mr Cowdrey  state on behalf of the Crown that the Tribunal should consider the deterrent effect of an order for deportation on other members of the same migrant group who might be persuaded to commit a similar offence? 
Had  Mr Sergi  been resident in Australia for 26 years? 
Why does the Government generalise on the behaviour of migrants? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) When was the maternity allowance abolished. 
What has been the saving to the Government since its abolition. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 September 1979: 
What was the waiting time for eligible persons seeking hearing tests at each of the appropriate National Acoustics Laboratory facilities on 14 September 1979. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it true that the Government is about to fund another advertising campaign on behalf of the private funds and the Australian Medical Association to encourage people to act irrationally and take insurance cover for treatment as private hospital patients? Especially in view of the increasing gap between the AMA's suggested charges and the maximum amount recoverable from the funds, is this not a real insult to the intelligence of the community? Is it not true that the admission of patients into hospitals as private fee-for-service patients costs the Commonwealth Government more than it is saving due to the funds' small contribution to hospital costs? Is it not also true that the proposed advertising campaign on behalf of the funds and the AMA, if it is successful, will therefore cost the taxpayer additional large sums of money? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the reason for the discrepancy between appropriation and expenditure in 1978-79 ($36,000 : $3,791) for the peer review of professional standards for medical practitioners (Division 323.3.13, page 67 of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80). 
In view of his commitment to peer review of professional standards what is the reason for the absence of any appropriation for 1979-80. 
I take up the time of the House for a few minutes tonight to criticise the media on a couple of points. Firstly, I think all of us would agree that Japan is quite an important country to Australia and Japanese politics are important to Australia. Therefore, I ask the leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables setting out the results of the recent Japanese election showing not only the number of seats won but also the percentage of votes compared with those at the previous election. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910162_65_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910162_65_7.jpg"></graphic>

It is depressing that the Australian Press has given no information whatever on the election results in Japan, one of the very few countries with a democratic constitution and democratic behaviour. I had to obtain those figures from the Japanese Embassy via the Parliamentary Library. One would have thought that the Australian media would have published the results. 
The second criticism is about an article in last Sunday's issue of the  Sunday Telegraph,  dated 14 October. Possibly because of the incorporation of certain features of News Limited 's now deceased paper  Sunday  into the  Sunday Telegraph,  there is a two-page spread by a selfappointed expert on organised crime, one  Dr McCoy,  who is described as 'the American-born university history lecturer, now living in Sydney' and who has written 'the definitive book'whatever that may mean- on the international drug trade. I do think that the media ought to look at what people say and be slightly more critical. He talks about starting price betting. I do not deny that I have had an SP bet at some stage in my life. I do not raise this matter on that basis. I make this criticism because I think SP betting or any other subject ought to be discussed on a rational basis.  Dr Alfred  McCoy's article reads: 
Taking the figure of- 
I emphasise that this is the first time in the article that he mentions the figureSi, 420 million as a conservative estimate of the SP's annual turnover in New South Wales, the police anti-betting campaign has cost the illegal bookmakers a substantial part of their business. 
How does he arrive at a figure of $ 1,420m? He does not give any information whatever. He says that a substantial part of the business of illegal bookmakers has been destroyed by the action of the police. Earlier in the article, he says: 
Awash in an unexpected flood of cash and custom the TAB has watched its revenues soar by more than $ 1 million a week . . . 
I think that most honourable members would agree that $ lm a week adds up to $S2m a year. I do not quite know how one can describe that $52m as a very substantial part of the estimated annual turnover of SP betting which he puts conservatively at $ 1 ,420m. 
Later in the article, he refers to the enormous amount of money involved. One of the things to which I as one who likes to have a gamble object very strongly is the practice of people who continue to compare what they call the gambling habits of Australians with the failure of Australians to spend money on other items. The important point to remember about money that is gambled is that all of that money is not lost. Anybody who has ever gambled knows that, whether the money is put into a poker machine or invested on SP betting or at the TAB, those who run the gambling operation take a cut of between 10 per cent and 20 per cent of the sum gambled and the average punter receives some of his or her money back.  Dr McCoy  is reported to have said: 
First, look at the enormous amount of money involved. The total SP turnover- 
He is talking about New South Wales- of $ 1,420m for 1978 is well over half of Australia's total national defence budget of $2,430m for 1977-78, and somewhat under half of the New South Wales State revenues of $3,200m. 
This is the usual story. He then goes on to say: 
Assuming a 10 per cent profit- 
In other words, if there is a 10 per cent profit there is also a 10 per cent loss on the part of the punters and an amount of $ 142m is involved, not an amount of $1,420. Again I emphasise that I would like to see some statement by this alleged expert on how he arrives at the figure of $ 1,420m. It is an arbitrary figure which he has plucked out of thin air, as far as one can make out from this article. He does not give it any support but then calls it a conservative figure. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 September 1 979: 
Does the Australian Radiation Laboratory monitor exposure levels of miners working at Nabarlek, NT. 
If so, what are the (a) mean and (b) highest exposure levels measured to 26 September 1 979 by radiation monitoring film, of miners working at Nabarlek. 
-by leave-I would like to comment on the interdepartmental committee's report which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was kind enough to let me look at. I understand that the interdepartmental committee consisted of officers from the Department of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Department of the AttorneyGeneral, and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I would like to draw the attention of the House to paragraphs 26, 27 and 28 of that report. I seek leave to incorporate parts of the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

For example, between 1956 and 1958 the Soviet Union concluded bilateral agreements with Yugoslavia, Hungary, Romania, Albania, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, North Korea, Poland and Mongolia. These Conventions provide that persons who possess the citizenship of both contracting States and reside in the territory of one of them, may choose exclusively the citizenship of the other by filing a declaration to that effect with its Embassy within one year from the date of coming into force of the respective Convention. 
The declaration of choice is examined by the competent authorities to whom it has been submitted. The Contracting States are bound to inform each other of the applications which have been accepted and, in the case of certain Conventions, also of the applications rejected. Persons who fail to express their choice of citizenship are to be regarded as citizens solely of their country of residence. Minors as a rule follow the citizenship of their parents. 
An example of a multipartite agreement to which the Committee made reference is the 1963 Council of Europe Convention on Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality and Military Obligations in Cases of Multiple Nationality. This Convention comprises two substantive chaptersChapter I concerns reduction of cases of multiple nationality and Chapter II concerns military obligations. Parties may apply both chapters, Chapter I with reservations and Chapter II, or Chapter II only. Only Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Luxembourg apply both chapters without reservations. Unlike the Conventions concluded between the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries, which require only that a person seek the consent of the State in which he is not resident but whose nationality he wishes to retain, Chapter II of the Council of Europe Convention requires that a person seek the consent of the State whose nationality he wishes to renounce. Such consent may not, however, be withheld if the person has not been a resident of that State for ten years and is at the time ordinarily resident in the State whose nationality he wishes to retain. 
There is provision in the European Convention for other States to accede to it. The Government is considering the desirability of Australia doing so, although it should be noted that the countries with which Australia encounters most difficulties over dual nationality are not parties to the Convention. 
-Paragraphs 26 and 27 refer basically to what has happened in what we call Soviet satellite states'. I will read very quickly from paragraph 26 which says: 
. between 1956 and 1958 the Soviet Union included bilateral agreements with Yugoslavia - 
I suppose that Yugoslavia is not a Soviet satellite state. I apologise to the Yugoslavs. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the concern of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union that occupational as well as family and community health standards are threatened by the lack of research into the Zoonoses disease to which meat workers are exposed. 
2 ) If so, will he support the case for the funding of the research unit at the Department of Microbiology, University of Melbourne, which is applying itself to the difficulties associated with brucellosis diagnosis. 
-We are debating cognately four measures which are only partly related. I point out to honourable members that the Social Services Amendment Bill is a mixture of a number of measures which were announced in the Budget and a number of measures to tighten up very considerably the payment of the unemployment benefit. The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3), which is the second measure, deals with the payment of pharmaceutical benefits for persons in addition to those who are presently eligible for pensioner health benefits. Of course, we have no objection to that measure. We support it. The Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) similarly adds to the persons who are presently eligible to receive the pensioner health benefit. The Department of Health will pay 85 per cent of the medical fees for those persons. Finally, the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) is partly a consequential measure, bringing into effect some of the provisions of the Social Services Amendment Bill, but principally it introduces a new classification of persons eligible for the Service pension. I refer to persons who would generally be described as allied ex-servicemen. 
To try to bring some sort of consistency into the debate, I wish to foreshadow an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Social Services Amendment Bill which I shall move later. The Opposition will be supporting the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3), the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2). We have one amendment on the second reading. In foreshadowing this amendment, I shall read it now and shall formally move it at the end of my speech. I shall move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that it should provide for- 
twice yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants; 
an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years; 
removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the "voluntary" unemployed and those who fail the work test; 
removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others; 
the updating of supplementary allowances and allowances for pensioners' children to compensate for inflation; and 
an increase in family allowances to compensate for their erosion by inflation'. 
One of the important points to make in discussing this legislation is that the Government accepts the proposition that inflation has again increased quite significantly. That is obviously the reason for the reintroduction of the twiceyearly indexation of a significant proportion of pensioner benefits and Service pensioner benefits. A significant number of pensions is not being indexed. Let me point out to the House that amongst those pensions which are not being indexed are the supplementary allowance, which for some considerable time has been $5 and which now should really be indexed to $8 and the family allowance. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which I have had incorporated on an earlier occasion showing the loss in value of the family allowance because of inflation. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910184_80_0.jpg"></graphic>

-Another benefit that is not indexed is the allowance for pensioners, children which at present is $7.50 and which, had it been indexed, would be $12. Other benefits have not been indexed under this legislation. I refer to the personal care subsidy, the pensioner funeral benefit- even though it has been increased for ex-servicemen- the delivered meal subsidy, the homeless persons meal subsidy and so on. 
In discussing the question of six-monthly indexation, I think it would be quite obvious to the House that we have debated this matter on three previous occasions. On 12 October 1978, this Government abolished six-monthly indexation of pensions on the basis that it had control of inflation and that there was no longer any need for the six-monthly indexation. As soon as it said that, inflation got out of control again. We debated the matter again and the Opposition moved amendments on 2 1 February of this year and on 7 March of this year. On all three occasions, Government members supported the abolition of the six-monthly indexation of pensions and the Opposition supported their retention. I think two or three honourable members on the Government side abstained from voting but the vast majority voted with the Government, defeating our proposal to reintroduce sixmonthly indexation at a much earlier time. 
The other important point to make is that the restoration of twice-yearly indexation is not complete. At the beginning of next month, starting on the first pay-day which is 8 November, pensioners will receive indexation of their pensions but only up to and including the June quarter, whilst other members of the community, if they receive wages and are covered by wage cases, in many instances will have received a further indexation and, if not, will certainly receive it before next May when this piece of legislation really comes into force. It is important to remember that whilst the Government is legislating for twice-yearly indexation now it will not really come into force until 1 May next year. The increase to be given in November will be a 12- monthly indexation increase. 
The second point to remember is that many of the other benefits which were removed last year have not been restored. Specifically I refer to such things as the introduction of a means test upon increased age pensions for those 70 years of age. In other words, those people over 70 will not receive indexation of their pensions unless they can pass the means test. It is quite a stringent means test. That has not been changed; the pension will remain as it was. I reiterate that in introducing this legislation the Government is in some ways admitting defeat. The whole argument in favour of introducting the six-monthly indextion was that it had controlled inflation. The Government is agreeing that inflation has got out of control. In his Budget Speech on 21 August the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
Last year when the Government took its decision to introduce annual indexation adjustments of social security and repatriation pensions and benefits, it was with the prospect of a lower rate of inflation than now prevails. 
In the event this expectation was not realised. I think that is the important point- that the Treasurer does not pretend that he is pleased to be able to restore those benefits. The Treasurer says that he is forced into it because the Government's policy has failed. 
I have no doubt that the Government members, when replying, will blame overseas conditions, the Arabs and maybe even the Whitlam Government. It depends on who speaks from that side who will be blamed for all the evils that are present in society today. But it is important to remember that much of the inflation in due to arbitrary and conscious decisions by this Government. Very little of the petrol which we use is imported. This Government has made a decision to increase the price of petrol according to the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' prices but, as I understand it, 90 per cent of the petrol used in motor cars is not imported into Australia but is, in fact, petrol which is produced in Australia. There is no reason why the price of that overwhelming proportion of petrol should have been increased. It is the increase in the price of petrol and other similar increases which have been imposed by this Government and which make it possible for this Government to have large amounts of money available, probably for election bribes next year, which have caused inflation in this country. We should always remember that. 
Let me make a couple more points about the benefits which are not being introduced and which should be introduced. The recipients of unemployment, sickness and special benefits have no entitlement to health benefits, pharmaceutical benefits or other fringe benefits. That is one of the important things that we have to remember. They are particularly disadvantaged since the abolition of Medibank and because of the very large increases in the pharmaceutical charges over the last two years, the latest being that which was brought in from 1 September this year. So, it is very important to realise that this Government is not protecting a large number of people. 
The Government is extending pensioner health benefit cards to some new groups, such as supporting parents. We certainly welcome this because it is Labor Party policy. But again, the States will still be responsible for payment in the first six months. This is certainly an anomaly. Persons will of course not be able to have at their disposal the Commonwealth Government's fringe benefits for the first six months when that pension is being paid by the States. 
The raising of the level of the allowable income for fringe benefits recipients means, as I understand what the Minister said, that an extra 25,000 pensioners will be eligible for these benefits. But again, it is important to remember that this is only a small step in providing what was due. The last increase in the fringe benefit income limits was under the Labor Government. Had they been indexed since, as they should have been, the limit now being proposed should be $62.10 for single persons and not the proposed $40. For married couples it should be $108.1 5, but it is being increased to $68 only. So all those single pensioners with, say, a superannuation income of between $40 and $62. 10 or married couples with an income of between $68 and $108.15 a week will, it is hoped, remember that this Government, by not bringing in indexation of fringe benefit income limits, has quite clearly made it impossible for them to obtain the fringe benefits. 
Let me deal with some other points in the Social Services Amendment Bill. It introduces new conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefits which will make it much harder for persons to obtain unemployment benefits. Indeed unemployment benefits for a significant number of people will be suspended. I deal firstly with the availability of unemployment benefits to people who are not involved in strike action but who are stood down as a result of industrial action by other members of their union. They may not be involved in strike action and they may even live outside the State in which their union is engaged in an industrial dispute but they are stood down. Because they belong to the same union they will be excluded from receiving unemployment benefits. Yet people who may support that strike, who work in the same factory as the people who are on strike, who are stood down and who could, in fact, exert some pressure on the strikers, will still be eligible for unemployment benefits because they do not belong to the same union. 
After paying a lot of lip service to the principle of reducing the number of unions- I have some reservations on this, though I realise I am in a minority, probably on both sides of the Housethe Government is saying to people that they are worse off if they belong to a large union than if they belong to a small union. If a person belongs to the Australian Workers Union, which covers 150,000 or 200,000 people all over Australia, and he is stood down as a result of a strike in which Australian Workers Union members are actively participating, he will no longer be able to obtain unemployment benefits. He may be stood down because AWU members who are oil refinery workers at Kurnell are participating in an industrial dispute which leads to a reduction in petrol supplies in New South Wales. Even though he may be an AWU member working in a completely different industry in a country area in New South Wales, he will automatically be stood down because he belongs to the same union. The situation would be different if the union movement were more fragmented- I point out again that the Government believes this would not be in the interests of industrial peace, therefore the Government does not advocate it-and the refinery workers at Kurnell belonged to a small State union. In fact they want to belong to such a union rather than to the Federal AWU but the Government is objecting to it. If they belonged to a different union other people would not have their eligibility to unemployment benefits affected by a strike at Kurnell. 
The next point I emphasise in relation to the reduction in unemployment benefits is the decision by the Government that there should be a mandatory- I emphasise 'mandatory'- six- week non-availability of unemployment benefits for persons who fail the work test or who have resigned from a job voluntarily. It is important to remember that quite often persons may be in a Catch-22 situation. For good or bad reasons, as far as those persons and their employers are concerned, they can see quite clearly that they are about to lose their jobs. They will be dismissed. If they decide to leave voluntarily then they will not be eligible for unemployment benefits for a minimum of six weeks or a maximum of twelve weeks. On the other hand if they do not leave voluntarily and wait to be dismissed- through no fault of their own- they will have a black mark against their names and it will be very difficult for them to obtain another job. These people are being put into a Catch-22 situation. The Government is making it very difficult for them to make a rational decision which is in their interests and also in the interests of the community at large. 
Until now it was left to the discretion of the Department of Social Security to make a decision as to whether a person ought to be suspended from employment benefits for the full six weeks, regardless of whether there were any good reasons. Under the new proposals the six weeks suspension is mandatory. It is only up to the Department and the Director-General to decide whether that should be six weeks or 12 weeks. It is important to remember that the socalled failure of the work test, whilst in some cases it can be justified, may lead to the suspension of unemployment benefits. This obviously cannot be applied to every case. If we look at the rules and regulations which have been produced by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, dated September 1979, we find that regulation 15 states: 
Failure to respond to call-in message. 
Where the OCES is able to speak to a claimant and secure his agreement to report at a specific time, either to an employer for a job interview or to the OCES for referral to a job, there will, on the face of it, be a breach of the work test if he fails to report at that time. 
In all other cases, where a telephone, telegram or courier message, or a letter, is used to contact a claimant about a job, a failure to respond within 48 hours of the issue of the message - 
Not of the receipt of the message but of the issue of the message- 
Is to be treated as an apparent breach of the work test. 
If that work test is breached it is now mandatory- I emphasise the word mandatory -to suspend unemployment benefits for six weeks. I will be interested to see how many honourable members from both sides of the House will get massive complaints from their constituents who will lose out on their unemployment benefits because of the mandatory nature provided in the amendments to the legislation. Surely there must be lots of times when there are all kinds of good reasons which may or may not be acceptable to the Department. It should be possible for the Department to accept these reasons as being reasonable points and it should not suspend unemployment benefits completely. 
The Social Services Amendment Bill which we are debating gives to the officers of the Department of Social Security the right to deprive citizens of between $347 and $1,158 by withholding unemployment benefits. These are very severe penalties for such minor offences as not responding to a message from the Commonwealth Employment Service within 48 hours; leaving work without good and sufficient reason; and becoming unemployed through misconduct, which is to be denned in the light of information received from employers. Six weeks is the mandatory period and the next six weeks depends upon the whim of the Department. 
This legislation sets a mandatory minimum period of postponement of six weeks, representing $347 in lost benefits payments for a single person, and $579 for an unemployed person with dependants. The maximum is for 12 weeks, which is a penalty of $695 for a single unemployed person and $1,158 for the unemployed person with dependants. As I said earlier, the Bill will also have the effect of depriving innocent victims of industrial action, sometimes in another State, of any income support at all if that action has been taken by members of the same union. This, to me, is a crude attempt to use the Social Services Act as an industrial weapon, and it is a perversion of the purposes of that Act. 
Similar action was proposed at the time of the Victorian power dispute in 1977 and at that time it was condemned by conservative politicians and newspaper editors. The honourable member for Casey,  Mr Falconer,  was quoted in the  Age  newspaper on 13 October 1977. At that stage he was chairman of the Government's back bench industrial relations committee. He urged the Government to reconsider its proposals. The article states: 

 Mr Falconer told the Government Parties meeting that a large number of rank and file members who had nothing to do with the strike would find their benefits cut. 
The  Age of  13 October 1977 also reported: 

 Senator Hall ; 
At that stage he was a Liberal Party senator from South Australia- said the Government was making the innocent do its dirty work for it. He said the proposal was unjust and he had the gravest doubts about it 
The  Age  reports further on the same date: 
The State Social Welfare Minister,  Mr Dixon,  telegrammed two Federal Ministers warning of the possibility of family breakdown if the benefits were not paid. 
There is a further report in the  Australian  on the same day which states: 
The State 's Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Dixon,  - 
He is the Victorian Minister- said: 'It's stupid to use unemployment benefits as a possible lever in an industrial dispute and such a move would be illadvised and ill-considered.' 
On 12 October 1977 the  Sun News Pictorial  stated: 
The Premier,  Mr Hamer,  also said yesterday that he believed that people stood down through no fault of their own should be paid unemployment benefit. 
Editorials to be found in the Melbourne  Herald,  in the  Age  and in the  Canberra Times  newspapers also state that they are opposed to this type of legislation. The Melbourne  Herald  stated: 
It would be outrageous to deny sustenance to stood-down unionists and their families not involved in the dispute. The Government should take care that no substance exists for such stories in future. 
As I am pressed for time I will not read from the editorials which were in the  Age  and  Canberra Times  newspapers of the same day, 14 October 1977. 1 now formally move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that it should provide for- 
twice yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants; 
an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years; 
removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the "voluntary" unemployed and those who fail the work test; 
removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others; 
the updating of supplementary allowances and allowances for pensioners' children to compensate for inflation, and 
an increase in family allowances to compensate for their erosion by inflation'. 
For the next few minutes I will deal with the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill. The Opposition supports the Bill but we believe that the Government will have a lot of trouble and a lot of difficulties with one particular aspect. Honourable members on this side of the House certainly support the aim of the legislation, but it will be extremely difficult to interpret. I think the Government will find difficulty in interpreting the legislation. I am dealing with the question of allied ex-servicemen. I will just quote two clauses of the amendments. Proposed new section 98H reads: 
In this division-  government in exile ', in relation to a country, includes any person, or group of persons, claiming to represent, or administer, the country or a part of the country or the people of that country . . . 
It seems to be a very wide definition. This may be the best way of doing it but it certainly strikes me that it will be very difficult to decide. Of course, the other point is that the theatre of war is selfevident as far as Australian ex-servicemen are concerned. We have had plenty of problems in that regard, but the definition in the Act has not been altered for this purpose. We are referring to allied ex-servicemen who served in the theatre of war. The definition there must be different if they were Frenchmen, Yugoslavs, Italians, Greeks or whatever. The other point I make concerns one provision in the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) which reads: 
In this Division, a reference to forces raised by a country - 
That includes a government-in-exile- 
shall be read as not including a reference to irregular forces; 
If we define a government-in-exile as being a minimum of one person representing the people, a group of people or a part of a country, how will we ever get a reference to irregular forces? Surely, since we have widened the definition of a government, we have widened the definition of regular forces. If we say that one person can at any time declare himself to represent a country or part of a country, how can we decide whether the people who fought for that person, or group of persons, were regular or irregular forces? 
In conclusion I reiterate that we have quite strong misgivings about the first piece of legislation in the cognate debate, the Social Services Amendment Bill. That is the reason for our moving an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. The Opposition supports the second, third and fourth pieces of legislation which are being debated in this cognate debate. 
-This is an opportune time for me to raise another matter. It is not even one o'clock yet. I will take only a couple of minutes. We are dealing with the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. 1 would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  to a very small number of Australian ex-servicemen who, to my mind, have been wrongly treated. I am referring to Australian ex-servicemen who were prisoners of war in Germany during the Second World War and who, for reasons known only to the then German Government, became inmates of concentration camps. The Federal Republic of 
Germany has agreed to treat British and other prisoners of war as victims of war crimes because they were not prisoners of war. They were wrongly held in German concentration camps. 
Britain signed an agreement in the mid-1960s to have those people paid special compensation. I am now talking about the British ex-servicemen who were in the concentration camps. For some reason the Australian Government did not try to come to any agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany to get special compensation for those people. As far as I know- the Department would know much more about it than I do- there is only a small number of Australians involved. I think the least that should be done is to make representations to the Federal Republic of Germany pointing out that a certain number of people claim to have been inmates of concentration camps in Germany. This was illegal under the Geneva Convention. These people should get special compensation from the Federal Republic of Germany which has taken on the responsibility for payments for those who were adversely affected by the war crimes of the then German state during the Second World War. 
-The Opposition opposes clauses 35, 41 and 42. We will have one division on clause 35 in order to indicate our opposition to the three clauses. The Opposition will be voting against clauses 35, 41 and 42. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, let me illustrate the hypocrisy and dishonesty of this Government by reading the first two sentences of the second reading speech on the Social Services Amendment Bill by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! It has been the practice of the Chair of late to rule that the word 'hypocrisy' is unparliamentary. I would prefer the honourable member for Prospect to use another word. 
-I will say 'extreme dishonesty' then. Those words are probably more applicable in any case. When introducing this legislation the Minister stated: 
This Bill embodies the Government's Budget proposals for improvements in social services, pensions and benefits. It demonstrates the Government's determination to continue to provide for those in need, notwithstanding the necessity to restrain Government expenditure. 
That was the Minister's explanation for this piece of legislation. We are now dealing with a number of clauses which quite clearly are not intended to improve social services, pensions and benefits. The Minister tried to hide them. In trying to explain this piece of legislation, the Minister completely ignored those clauses. Let me remind the House of some of the points that were made in the amendment moved by the Opposition in the second reading debate. We stated that the Bills should provide for Twice-yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants; an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 18 years; removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the 'voluntary' unemployed and those who fail the work test; and removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others. Those are the four main points to be made in relation to the second part of the legislation with which we are dealing now. 
Specifically, the Opposition opposes clauses 35, 41 and 42 of the legislation. The only point I would like to make in relation to clause 35 is that this Government pays a lot of lip service to the proposition that unions should be amalgamated. It says that we should have large unions, unions covering whole industries, that we should have Federal unions instead of State unions and that that would prevent some of the industrial conflict. Yet it introduces this legislation which obviously penalises members of a large union. If a person belonged to a small union- let us say a union covering only tyre makes in New South Wales, or an even smaller union covering people employed in tyre manufacturing in a particular plant- that person would not be covered by this dragnet clause. But a member of a large unionthis Government encourages the amalgamation of unions to form large unions- is covered by this legislation. Take a member of the Australian Workers Union or any of the other large unions in this country. If one or more members of that union are on strike anywhere in Australia and that strike causes him to be stood down, he is not entitled to benefits. But if he belongs to any other union he is still entitled to benefits. I think it is ridiculous. The Government ought to be thinking about what the effect of this type of legislation will be. 
The other important point that I should like to make is that the Government is inconsistent in this legislation in another way. On the one hand it removes the discretion of the Director-General on the question of the automatic suspension of unemployment benefit for the first six weeks but on the other hand says that the first six weeks are mandatory. Then there is a discretion for a six to 12 week suspension for persons who have failed the work test or some other test which is insisted on by the Government. Yet in another case, in the case of the unions, it introduces much discretion. The Director-General is to have discretion to decide whether a particular standing down is due to an industrial dispute, whether a person in a different establishment is covered by a particular union and so on. My own advice to people applying for unemployment benefit because they have been stood down from their plant, if they want the unemployment benefit, is not to admit to being members of the union concerned. They would be silly if they did so. They would disqualify themselves from eligibility for unemployment benefits. It is a penalty on their union membership. All a person has to say, I assume, is: 'I do not belong to that particular union. I am not a member of that union'. A person can claim that he is not a financial member of a union or that he belongs to a different union. It strikes me as being quite ridiculous that this Government would impose these sorts of penalties on union members, particularly on members of large unions, and at the same time claim that it encourages large unions. 
I remind the House that similar proposals were put up in the Victorian power dispute some two years ago, in 1977. Let me quote to the House some of the words of conservative politicians as to their attitude to the suspension of unemployment benefit for people stood down during an industrial dispute when those people have had no say whatsoever as to whether that dispute should have occurred. That is what we are dealing with here. The then  chairman  of the Government's Back Bench Industrial Relations Committee,  Mr Peter  Falconer, urged the Government to reconsider its proposals. He told the Government parties meeting that a large number of rank and file members who had nothing to do with the strike would find their benefits cut.  Senator Hall,  a Liberal senator from South Australia, said that the Government was making the innocent do its dirty work for it. He said that the proposal was unjust and that he had the gravest doubts about it. The Melbourne  Age  on 13 October 1977 reported: 
The State Social Welfare Minister,  Mr Dixon,  telegramed two Federal Ministers warning of the possibility of family breakdown if the benefits were not paid. 
Also on 13 October 1977, it was reported in the  Australian: 
The State's Minister for Social Welfare,  Mr Dixon,  said: It's stupid to use unemployment benefits as a possible lever in an industrial dispute and such a move would be ill-advised and ill-considered.' 
The Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  was reported in the  Sun News-Pictorial  on 12 October as having said on 1 1 October that he believed that people stood down through no fault of their own should be paid unemployment benefit.  Mr Hamer  said it,  Mr Dixon  said it,  Mr Falconer  said it and  Senator Hall  said it. Let me tell the House what the editorialists, who always support the Government, said. In the Melbourne  Herald  on 1 4 October it was stated: 
It would be outrageous to deny sustenance to stood-down unionists and their families not involved in the dispute. The Goverment should take care that no substance exists for such stories in future. 
The  Age  stated on 14 October 1977: 
Unemployment benefits should be regarded as a right for those people jobless through no fault of their own. They are not a privilege and they most certainly are not a plaything for politicians. 
On the same day the  Canberra Times  stated: 
The apparent intention of the Federal Government, however, to deny unemployment benefits in the future to workers stood down as a result of a strike if the union to which they belong does not condemn the strike is a threat to the right to freedom of opinion, a denial of justice to taxpayers, and a perversion of the conventional definition of what constitutes unemployment 
I draw honourable members' attention to the fact that one assumes these people's opinion has not altered. What has altered? This Government wants to create conditions of industrial disputation. This Government is worried about its complete failure to deal with the economic problems facing this country. In the four years since this Government came to power, unemployment has increased by huge numbers, and inflation is now increasing. This Government is trying to change the opinion of people by concentrating on industrial disputes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) When will the Government decide whether the Commonwealth Serum Laboratory or the American firm Abbott Laboratories Pry Ltd, will be chosen as the sole manufacturer of penicillin in Australia. 
Have both his Department and the Department of Defence recommended that penicillin should continue to be manufactured in Australia in the national interest. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
Is it a fact that certain treatment for bladder stimulation for children with spina bifida is available at the Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney, but not in Melbourne. 
If so, why are children requiring this treatment and living within 200 km of Melbourne not eligible for assistance to travel to Sydney under the National Health Act, whilst all other families are. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  on clarifying a position which the Opposition has reiterated on many occasions, that is, that the standard of living of the Australian population is dropping continuously. It is dropping in a real sense and in a relative sense as compared with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries and with other countries in this area. I agree completely with him although not necessarily with his conclusions as to the reasons for that particular drop. My own view- which is a very self-evident point- is that the drop is due to actions by the Government, in a very broad sense and not just on one particular issue. 
I would like to ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter which I received from Seweryn A. Ozdowski, a lecturer in the Department of Sociology in the University of New England, in which he is asking for help from Australia in allowing his wife 's sister to visit from Poland. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 June 1 979: 
What was the (a) number of and (b) total amount paid on (i) claims involving 40 per cent of medical expenses, where the 40 per cent amounted to less than $20 and (ii) claims involving a refund of $20 or more, during each month since 1 November 1978. 
-I thank the House. I have a second matter to raise. I state quite clearly that I am not necessarily expressing the view of the Opposition on this particular issue; I am expressing my own point of view, one which I have held for a very long time. The matter was drawn to my attention when I recently saw a handout from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in which articles from the ethnic press are summarised. I saw an article by one Milan Riznic dealing with the multicultural curriculum. He opposes that curriculum. It is generally accepted by politicians in this country that one should not criticise that proposition. The reason that I am game to criticise it is because I came to this country in my teens from a nonEnglish speaking country. I believe that I have a worthwhile view to put before the House on this particular issue. We are being carried away by the proposition that we should encourage multiculturalism. As a pluralist, as a small 'I' liberal and as a libertarian I very strongly support the proposition that for practical purposes people should be allowed to do whatever they like, to speak any language they like, provided that it does not interfere with other people. That is a different proposition from arguing and trying to persuade people that multiculturalism per se is a good thing for them. It is my view that in many cases it is not. 
It is very difficult for a child with an average intelligence quotient to cope with two languages. It is easy enough for people who are outstandingly bright to do so but it is not easy for the average child. If we say positively that those children should be encouraged to do a lot of their schooling in a language other than English they will never get a fair share of the cake that is available in Australia and which ought to be available in Australia for all who are permanent residents. That is my very strongly held view. We are doing those people a disservice if we cave in to well organised but, as  Mr Riznic  put it, numerically insignificant pressure groups. He refers to 'selfelected ethnic councils'. We are caving in to pressure groups who have a definite interest in keeping particular languages prominent in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Has the 2-year nurse training course at Royal Canberra Hospital been abolished; if so, were there any reasons for doing so, apart from budgetary ones. 
Was the Royal Australian Nursing Federation consulted; if not, why not. 
I will not delay the Committee but I feel very strongly that we have to oppose the proposed new clause not only because of its content but also because when we appeared before the Remuneration Tribunal earlier this year it was put to us that we did not oppose the changes to the Tribunal's recommendation the time before, either on the part of the Opposition or on the other side of the chamber. That in itself was taken to be a degradation of its standing. It was said that having gone before the Tribunal, the Tribual having made certain determinations and a decision being taken that changes should be brought in, we should have voted against them. Members of parliament are put in a very difficult position when their conditions are proposed to be reduced from those which have been determined by the Tribunal because the whole of the Press will have a go at us if we start voting against a determination. I am sure that all honourable members in this place appreciate that point. You,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  made an excellent point a few minutes ago when you spoke in the second reading debate. 
I want to make a strong point, and I am prepared in a sense to go out on a limb in support of this point. Having been a medical practitioner for quite a few years before I became a member of this place nobody is likely to suggest that I could not be making more money now as a medical practitioner than I am making as a parliamentarian. I challenge any journalist or media person to say otherwise. I do not think even the people who try to underestimate medical practitioners' income significantly would argue that the average medical practitioner does not make more than a parliamentarian. I do not have to pretend that a parliamentarian's salary is terribly impressive. 
There are two points on which the Government proposes to knock us back. One is an abn.trary ruling made last year by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was determined in 1978 that there should be one staff member for each Opposition shadow Minister with a maximum of 27, which corresponded with the number of Ministers at that time. So we were entitled to 27 extra staff members. The Prime Minister quite arbitrarily wrote a letter to us saying that he would not allow this and we could have 10. We did not fight. I felt we should have fought about it. However, I do not necessarily carry the numbers on my side of the chamber either. This year the Government is introducing changes in the Remuneration and Allowances Bill which it had not even thought through. The Government is proposing to reject one of the determinations which states that a senator or member who is a shadow Minister may, when travelling outside his electorate in the performance of duties or functions connected with his office of shadow Minister, be paid a travelling allowance. The Government wants to restrict payment to not more than 40 overnight stays per annum. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay),  who is sitting at the table, has given no reason for that amendment. I would be interested to hear the reasons. I am one of those people who do not like travelling. I hate aeroplanes, so it does not affect me because it is very doubtful that I would have 40 overnight stays in any one year if I could possibly avoid it. But it probably does apply to other people and often it applies to people who do not have an excess of money. I think it is wrong to impose these sorts of conditions on members when they are not imposed on Ministers by the same Government. 
Let me get back to the question of staff. Some members of this House are reasonably well off but there are many who have only one income, the income that they get from Parliament. I think all of us would agree, without knowing the details, that the Prime Minister is one of those who probably has significant income outside his parliamentary salary. Good luck to him. But the danger involved in not providing adequate staff facilities and so on for the Opposition and for any other members of parliament who do not have an extra income is that money will be taken from other sources in society. Members may accept benefits, whether they be travelling or staff benefits, from very questionable sourcesfrom people who obviously want to influence a member's final decision. As I said earlier, the Prime Minister cannot be considered to be one of the poor people. Yet the Prime Minister, when he was a shadow Minister in this place, accepted aid from Keith Compton Gale, who provided that aid on behalf of Gollin and Co Ltd. We all know that Gale provided that aid in the years between 1972-1975 to enable the present Prime Minister to draw up his policies when he was shadow Minister for Labour. I will not repeat all of the charges laid against Keith Compton Gale, but I will quote a newspaper account of some of them: 
Gale is facing a further 17 charges of fraudulently applying a total of $407,422 while a director of Gollin and Co between August, 1972 and February, 1976 and one charge of falsifying an account . . . 
It is quite clear that the man was a crook. He was convicted and, if I remember rightly, he was sentenced to 16 years in gaol. This is the man who provided services for the Prime Minister of this country because there were no staff available. Yet the Prime Minister would be one of the few people in this House who could have afforded to pay for staff. He could have afforded to pay for the staff, but he did not. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  I wonder whether the character of the person so employed is relevant to the Committee at this time. 
-I think it is extremely relevant that a crook was supplying services to a member of parliament. 
-I think I am helping my argument by showing quite clearly that even people like the Prime Minister had to accept help. Yet he now imposes these sorts of restrictions quite arbitrarily and illegally, just as last year he illegally imposed a reduction. Last year he did not bring in any amendments to the determination but just said 'you cannot have any more staff", even though the determination was legally binding. The Prime Minister acted illegally. The Prime Minister accepted help from a crook and I think it is extremely relevant that this Committee realise that facilities ought to be provided for all members of parliament so that they do not have to accept help from outsiders which, at the very minimum, is highly debatable aid because there are always strings attached to it. Then there are the extreme circumstances such as those I have just outlined, where the Prime Minister, when he was a shadow Minister, was actually dealing with a person who later received 16 years' gaol for getting money put of a particular company. He was the man who . provided the Prime Minister with staff. I would not be surprised if some of that money had not been fraudulently obtained from Gollin and Co. Ltd: I am sure that the shareholders who lost many millions of dollars in Gollin and Co. Ltd were not aware that the Prime Minister received his staff from that company. It took good care of the Prime Minister. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Prospect get back to the terms of the Bill. 
-I think my remarks are extremely relevant. I would not be surprised if the Government Whip, who is trying to interject, were not in a similar sort of position. But I have no evidence of that and until people go to gaol, as they did in the case involving the Prime Minister, we cannot raise such matters in this chamber. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest that the honourable member for Prospect withdraw. 
-I conclude my remarks at this stage but I make it quite plain that it is extremely - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Bendigo has suggested that that statement be withdrawn. I suggest that the honourable member for Prospect withdraw. 
-I am happy to withdraw it. But I do appeal to honourable members to make it quite clear that they are interested in having facilities provided in a legal and above-board way for all members of parliament so that those members of parliament can perform their appropriate duties. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
What is the estimated saving to the Government of freezing the 100 per cent disability pension rate for pulmonary tuberculosis sufferers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) How many persons were receiving domiciliary nursing care benefits in each State and Territory at the latest date for which the information is available. 
Are figures available for domiciliary nursing care benefit payments on the basis of postcodes; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to motion No. 72 carried at the 64th National Congress of the RSL. 
If so, will he consider the request that disability pensions be paid fortnightly into bank accounts instead of 12 weeks in arrears. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to motion No. 48 carried at the 64th National Congress of the RSL. 
Will he consider the request that the loss of earnings allowance introduced by the Commonwealth Government be eliminated and medical sustenance payments re-introduced. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to motion No. 76 carried at the 64th National Congress of the RSL. 
Will he consider the request that meal vouchers be reinstated for out-patients at Repatriation centres. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Are workers in Australian uranium mines subject to whole body radiation monitoring; if not, what kind of monitoring takes place and what are the results of the radiation monitoring at the mines presently in use. 
-The original Homeless Persons Assistance Act was introduced in 1 974 for a three-year period by the then Minister for Social Security, the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden.  The Act provides for capital grants to be made to eligible organisations which are defined as non-profit organisations, local governing bodies and charitable or benevolent trusts towards the full cost of purchasing, constructing or renting buildings, including the purchase of furniture and equipment. It also enables the Commonwealth to pay 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons assistance centre. Approved organisations may also be paid a daily subsidy at prescribed rates for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are provided at a daily rate of 75c and a subsidy of 25c for each meal supplied to nonresident homeless persons. 
The introduction of the original legislation in 1974 followed the 1973 report of the working party on homeless men and women. The report's recommendations highlighted the need to concentrate assistance on upgrading existing facilities for permanently and chronically homeless men and women. It also suggested that the program be reviewed after its initial three years. The amending legislation deletes the reference to a prescribed period. In total 113 centres are approved at present. These provide overnight accommodation for about 3,600 men and women. During 1978-79 a total of 947,000 persons was accommodated. Over one million meals were made available to non-residents. It is important to note that the program is not directed exclusively towards chronically homeless men. A number of centres cater exclusively for single homeless women. The Labor Party's attitude to the legislation is one of support but we feel that we should draw the Government's attention to the lack of increase in the subsidies. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of opinion that the payment of 75c per day for accommodation and 25c per meal paid to those who provide assistance to homeless persons should be increased to a more reasonable level taking into consideration cost increases since 1974'. 
No new capital projects are approved in this legislation. As I said, all it does is extend the duration of support for the existing programs. In fact, the level of individual support remains at 75c for board and 25c for meals. These are exactly the same amounts as were provided when the legislation was introduced in 1974. The amendment which I have moved does no more than request the Government to do something about the level of these payments. A considerable problem is faced by people who are assisting homeless persons. The food and accommodation subsidies have remained the same since the scheme was introduced. No allowance has been made for improvement or expansion. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the debate on this legislation in the Senate. It was pointed out that in every year since 1976 amounts have been allocated but not expended. In 1976 over $4m was allocated but only $ 1.6m was expended. In 1977 $5.5m was allocated but only $1.73m was expended. In 1978 $3.8m was allocated but only $2.08m was expended. For four years in a row during the occupancy of this Government only half the moneys appropriated to provide assistance with shelter for the homeless has been used, despite claims by existing organisations for more help with emergency assistance particularly but also with extensions to existing programs. Needs have risen each year but moneys voted by the Parliament have been unused and returned to revenue. 
I see no virtue in such a situation when the need and the opportunity to use such funds are obvious to anyone who is interested in the subject. We are not talking about expenditure which would cripple the nation. We are talking about relatively small amounts. There is no virtue in cutting expenditure in these socially important areas where people are in great need. In four years, of the $ 1 7m allocated only $ 1 Om has been spent. That is a reflection of either appalling estimating on the part of the Department or a lack of willingness actually to spend the money. When the legislation was introduced in 1974 the then Minister for Social Security, Bill Hayden, pointed out the contrast between the millions of dollars which are spent in this country enforcing laws such as those relating to vagrancy which harass the homeless persons who are assisted under this legislation, and the pittance spent in providing shelter, rest, nutrition, rehabilitation and counselling for the heterogeneous group of people whom we conveniently label homeless, although it is purely a label of convenience. 
In summing up, I point out that the Opposition has moved the amendment to draw to the attention of the Government and the community the utter inadequacy of the food and accommodation subsidies available under the program in 1979. The subsidies are the same as were available in 1974-75. In view of the costs and the increasing size of the problem it is quite ludicrous to find them at the same level today. This community can and must afford to increase them. I know that other Opposition speakers will deal with more specific problems relating to homeless persons. I think we are all aware that one of the major problems, which is probably a relatively new phenomenon, is the large number of young people who are homeless and unemployed and therefore unable to afford the accommodation which would otherwise be available. I think there is a real risk for these very young people. For one reason or another they are not living with their families and they have not got enough money to look after themselves properly. This applies to both girls and boys. I think there is a tendency for them to get involved in what we consider to be illegal behaviour whether it be the drug use which we were talking about this afternoon in another connection, prostitution, both male and female, or all kinds of other unpleasant things. Vandalism, which is fairly prominent in the community, in many cases is associated. I do not think it is a political issue in the strict sense of the word. I think we all basically agree, even from a financial point of view, that the cost to the community may well be less in the long run if we can help the most vunerable people in the community and prevent them becoming involved in a life of crime, drug addiction or whatever. It is very important that we use institutions such as those I mentioned earlier which are able to take advantage of the money provided by legislation and which in many instances provide cheap labour because they are charitable institutions or the people who run them have a strong motive to help others. We should take the fullest advantage of those institutions and support them to a greater extent on running costs and capital expenditure than we are doing at the present and than we have been doing for the last few years, especially since the problem has become so immense. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
What would be the estimated cost to revenue of allowing health insurance contributions as a tax deduction additional to the concessional deduction of $ 1 ,590. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a resolution adopted by the Federal Assembly of the Australian Medical Association in June 1979 directing members only to employ graduates with Australian registration who are members of the AMA. 
Does this resolution breach any anti-discrimination legislation of the Commonwealth or States. 
If so, will the Attorney-General draw the appropriate government 's attention to the AMA 's decision. 
I realise that time is short and I do not want to take up too much time of the House. As a member of the Sub-Committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which prepared the report on human rights in the Soviet Union, I would like to make a few points. Firstly, I would like to pay tribute to  Senator John  Wheeldon who was the  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee for most of the time and to Kim Beazley who was the original  Chairman  of that Sub-Committee before the 1977 elections. I think that in some ways the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  was not accurate when he said the members of that Committee were not biased. We were not biased in a party political sense in 
Australia but we were biased in favour of freedom, in favour of a pluralist type society and in favour of a democratic society. The Soviet Union has only one political party. It has no independent trade unions and it has no organisations independent of the State. That is why the present position in respect of human rights exists in the Soviet Union, as illustrated in this report. 
I make one point in relation to human rights in the Soviet Union and in relation to the nationality question: I do not necessarily support nationalistic claims, whether they be by people who originated in the Baltic States or in the Ukraine, those of Jews and so on and tend to oppose nationalism. I think that it is important to have democratic freedom in the Soviet Union. If people had democratic freedoms, the nationality questions would be resolved in a democratic manner inside the United Soviet Socialist Republics. If people in a minority group decided they did not want to stay there at least they could leave the USSR. But what is happening at the present time is that they can neither change the setup inside the Soviet Union nor leave the Soviet Union. 
I would like to make a couple of points about human rights in the Soviet Union. I think that those of us who have been interested in the question of freedom and the question of human rights in the Soviet Union and in other countries know- the report emphasises it in its first conclusions- that there have been positive changes. In other words, changes have occurred in some ways away from the extreme totalitarian state of what was generally considered to be a Stalinist society in the Soviet Union until the death of Stalin. But it is still important to know what is happening in the Soviet Union at the present time. The system of police control of the entire society still stands as well as strict police control of any political movement and often even of movement in the realm of ideas. The goal, however, is not to drag all cases of different thinking and behaviour into the courts or into concentration camps as happened under Stalin. The goal is rather to have police evidence of all these cases and then to find different and always the most effective measures of repression in each and every single case. In the greatest number of cases the practice has been that the most effective way is not criminal prosecution but striking at a person's mode of existence- his job level of income and so on- and administrative measures such as the reduction of certain rights and advantages. The necessities of the totalitarian system are fulfilled when every citizen knows that his activities are being observed and controlled and that he can suffer for his thinking and his behaviour should he be opposed to the rules of the game. In sum, all this creates such a high level of fear in the whole society that, by and large, it has the same function as the use of mass terror. Instead of mass horror that had been accepted with fatalistic submission back in the days of Stalin, the masses now feel it is possible to avoid repression if only one adapts to the demands of the totalitarian power, if one does not do anything that the power does not like or if one avoids people it does not like. As a result of this admittedly narrow space in which the populations recognise that they can make their own choices, political discrimination applied in a more effective way fulfils its stabilising function. In other words the Soviet state in many ways has become more stable because it has allowed a significant number of people, whom we call dissidents, to know that they have certain choices. They are extremely tough choices but they do not necessarily involve the dissidents finishing up in a concentration camp, a prison or a psychiatric hospital. 
I do not want to take any longer because I know that there are many honourable members, especially on our side of the House, who want to express an opinion on this report. I draw the attention of the House, and hopefully those people who will read this debate in  Hansard,  to what I consider to be an excellent article in the British  Political Quarterly  of October-December 1979 by  Dr Zdenek  Mlynar, who had been secretary of the Central Committee and a member of the Politburo, or the Party Praesidium, of the Czechoslovak Communist Party and who apparently now lives in Vienna. He played a prominent part in the organisation of Charter 77 in Czechoslovakia. We have all heard about that in recent times. He was forced into emigration in the early summer of 1977. I would like to recommend his article. Until fairly recently he has been a very prominent member of the Communist Party in one of the Soviet bloc countries. He has a very intelligent approach to what is happening in the Soviet Union. Looking at the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  I am reminded that I want to pay tribute for once to the Australian Broadcasting Commission  Broadband  program for having a series on 'The Five Faces of the USSR', I think it was called. It was certainly a pleasant change from the usual content of  Broadband  programs on the Soviet Union and its satellites. 
I recommend that people take an interest in this report by the Sub-Committee. I hope that it will stimulate discussion on the question of civil liberties not only in the Soviet Union but in other countries. At the same time I would not be true to my general political line if I did not emphasise again and again that there are differences between totalitarian countries. Some are much worse than others. Even inside the so-called Soviet bloc there are significant differences apparently. I am probably the only parliamentarian in this House at the present time who has ever been refused a visa to go behind the Iron Curtain. I tried to go to Czechoslovakia but they would not let me in. I am proud of it. I think the important point for us to remember is that it is not possible to equate all totalitarian societies, or even all authoritarian societies. It is important to note changes and, hopefully, assist those who are trying to bring about changes to make such societies less totalitarian and less authoritarian. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you have just read out the text of the matter of public importance. I think it is quite clear to anyone who heard what the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said on television last night that the Opposition is obviously correct in what it says. The repeated changes have destroyed the community rating principle in health and the net result will be that the elderly, large families and chronically ill will be unable to afford adequate health cover. I do not think that one has to be a Sherlock Holmes or a Jim Twaddell, the investigating officer from the North Sydney branch of the Liberal Party- the Sherlock Holmes of North Sydney- to predict this loss of community ratings. It was a consequence of the Government's yo-yo health insurance policy. It was obvious that that would happen. I am surprised that in a Press statement on 2 November the Minister for Health seemed surprised about what had happened. In part of the Press statement  Mr Hunt  said that he was opposed to this latest development which, in the longer term, has the capacity to destroy the community rating principle. I draw the Minister's attention to a statement by  Senator Baume  who led for the Government in a debate in the Senate on 9 June 1978 when the Government announced that it would introduce voluntary health insurance from 1 November 1978 and that it would abolish the levy, introduce deductibles, et cetera.  Senator Baume,  a knowledgeable man, when speaking for the Liberal Party in the Senate said: 
A deductibles scheme would provide us with the opportunity to move away from community rating for the first time. It would be the first time that we have got away from making everyone carry the same insurance risk. If we are ever to get some incentive into the health insurance system it is essential that community rating be done away with and that experience rating or individual rating be adopted. I welcome the opportunity to do so. 
That was said by  Senator Baume,  the Government Whip in the Senate. He is probably the only person in the Senate on the Government side who understood the changes. I made statements in the debate on the matter which, whilst not approving of the abolition of community rating, also forecast its abolition. To me it was quite obvious that that would happen. 
The problem which has arisen today is one of many. I think it would be fair to say that each of the problems which has arisen has been due to the so-called solution of previous problems. The Government has continually attempted to bring about what it calls solutions. They, in turn, have produced further problems. There has been a rapid destabilisation of the Australian health insurance system. It is not surprising that several insurance organisations operating outside the umbrella of the Health Insurance Act are seeking to move into the health insurance area. These organisations, plus the variety of budget and cutrate tables offered by various established funds and the tempting choice not to insure, will effectively destroy community rating which is based on sound actuarial principle rather than a particular ideological prejudice. Inevitably, as the low risk people opt out of private health insurance, rates will become prohibitively expensive for the remaining contributors, the very people most in need of cover for medical and hospital costs. 
I noted last week when the matter suddenly hit the newspapers- although we have been talking about it in the House for over a year- that the  Australian,  in its editorial on 31 October, called Australia's health system 'a total unmitigated disaster- a monstrous creation by Cabinet Ministers and bureaucrats and a nightmare for the general public'. The  Sydney Morning Herald,  which is also not exactly known for its pro-Labor attitudes, in its editorial on the same day said: 
A new mine-field is opening up in Australia's health insurance system . . . bemused Australians have been forced to move a long, long way from the delightful simplicity of the original Medibank scheme, offering taxfinanced universal health insurance. 
I emphasise again that the Labor Party, myself and, I think, most people agree that adequate health care is a right in a country like Australia and that the basic costs should be shared between the sick and the healthy. We also believeagain I feel that we have majority support on this matter- that the costs should be shared in a progressive manner related to income. The important thing is this: If we opt out of community rating for health insurance, people who are healthy and probably relatively young- the two coincide to a large extent- will contribute to health insurance only if they are forced to do so. There is no point in their contributing otherwise. At present a person might be very well disposed to the general principle of community rating and the young and healthy contributing towards the cost of health insurance. But there is no guarantee whatever that if a person contributes to a health insurance fund at present until he or she reaches an age or a medical condition which requires more medical attention other people will contribute towards his or her costs. Surely we have to accept the proposition that the healthy in society at any time should contribute towards the cost of illness and treatment of illness for the sick, as the young contribute to the cost of the age pensions and those of us who are working contribute to the cost of unemployment benefit, sickness benefit and invalid pensions. This can be done only by compulsion. I am sorry that the Minister will disagree with me. In theory it would be very attractive to have a society in which people, without compulsion, would act in a charitable and social fashion and contribute towards the cost of those who required benefits from society as a whole at any time. This obviously does not happen. I do not think that anybody in our society would expect it to happen. 
What worries me about the health insurance funds is that the relatively healthy are being siphoned off from the funds by all kinds of gimmicky schemes. Some of them are run by the health insurance funds themselves, some are run by only some of them and others are run by friendly societies. Now, as I understand it, some of them will shortly be run by commercial insurance companies. If that happens contribution rates will either increase very quickly or, alternatively, many of the funds will go broke. Possibly both will happen at the same time. We have already witnessed the failure of a major Queensland fund, the Hibernian Medical and Hospital Benefits Fund, and the Federal Government's complete disinterest as contributors to that fund received less than 30c in the dollar for medical cost refunds. I am sure that many of us, especially those with electorates in Queensland, have received letters from people who were owed $200 and $300 in refunds for medical expenses. They thought that they were covered. The fund went into liquidation and all they received was 30c in the dollar. 
It is no secret that a number of substantial health insurance funds have encountered serious financial difficulties, in large part as a direct result of the number and content of this Government's changes. The latest annual report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefits organisations tabled only two weeks ago in this House lists the national total operating deficit of medical insurance funds as over $ 1 75m during the year. The breakdown for the States included $78m plus for New South Wales, $36m for Victoria, $22m for Queensland and $23m for South Australia. I will give some instances of specific medical funds. In New South Wales the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia showed an operating deficit of over Slim. The Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd showed an operating deficit in one year of over $50m. In Victoria the Hospital Benefits Association Ltd lost over $ 16.5m. In Queensland the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia lost over $16m. In South Australia the Mutual Hospital Association Ltd and the National Health Services Association of South Australia lost $12.6m and $9.1m respectively during the year. In Western Australia the Hospital Benefit Fund lost $5m and in Tasmania the Medical Benefits Fund lost over $3.4m. These figures give rise to an understandable alarm. Not only has confusion over the options for health insurance reached epidemic proportions but also the funds have been placed in the position in which at least some of them rest on shaky financial foundations thus causing more worry for the contributors. This cannot continue without very serious consequences for large numbers of Australians. I assume that the changes introduced by the Government on 1 November 1978 and partly reversed on 1 September 1979 have increased the profitability of the funds for that period at least, but I do predict that the funds are in real strife. 
I hold very little brief for the funds themselves because they pretend to be run by contributors, in the interests of contributors, but they are not. Most of them do not have any contributors or contributors' representatives on their boards. They are run by a small bureaucracy, purely in the interests of that bureaucracy. They are just as keen to grab the people whom the commercial institutions are attempting to coax into health insurance. I well remember the advertisements by the HBA which are put out usually in December of each year. They depict a rather attractive girl apparently about 16 or 18 who has just entered the work force- the sort of person the HBA wants to take out health insurance with it. The advertisements showed a breast partly exposed. There would be a stethoscope on that breast and the advertisement would be headlined: 'Do you want just anybody to do this to you? For a choice of your own doctor, subscribe to HBA'. So the HBA is no better than the others. I am not defending the HBA. 
As I have only a few minutes remaining to speak in this debate I will conclude my remarks by referring to a specific case- and I know of many such cases- which surely must worry even Government supporters who have some sort of sympathy for people in strife. Last week a woman telephoned me. I do not know how old she is. She said she has two young children. She said that her husband, who earned $ 140 a week, had a brain tumour removed two years ago at a major teaching hospital in Sydney. The reason she rang me, she said, was that she was told I was the only one who understood about health insurance. She was paying $76 a month health insurance- I repeat, $76 a month health insurance- out of a family income of $140 a week. I asked her: 'Why do you pay that sort of money for health insurance?' She said: 'Because I am worried that my husband will have a recurrence of his brain tumour'. We all know that if he has a recurrence of his brain tumour he is entitled to go into a public hospital for nothing. He will in fact go into a public hospital. He will go into a teaching hospital for further treatment. There is no need for her to have cover for treatment in a private hospital. It is completely unnecessary. But we have not been able to get that across to the people. The difficulty is not with the Opposition. Obviously it is with the Government. 
I have been trying to tell people not to take out unnecessary insurance. It always hurts me when people with very low incomes such as $130 to $140 a week ring me up or come to me, as they do, and tell me that they are paying between $ 10 and $15 a week in health insurance. It is just not necessary. It is terribly important to bring in a system under which is is clear to the people that they do not need to do that and that they can rely on the benefits available from the States, paid for out of progressive taxation, so that they will have at least the minimum benefit which is necessary to look after them when they are in ill health. I appeal to the Government to do something urgently to correct the situation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Who were the representatives of the Department of Health and the Department of Social Security at meetings in 1977 and 1978 with the Commonwealth Police and the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor about the possible payment of $200,000 to a  Mr Nakis,  as stated yesterday by Chief Inspector Thomas? Will the Minister supply the House with the names of those people, the dates of the meetings and information about who was present? Why was the Department of Health involved? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, 24 October 1979: 
What is the estimated number of (a) dependent children and (b) students who will be eligible for pensioner health benefits after the changes coming into force on 1 November 1979. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the full cost of the non-recurring review of TB pensioners during 1978. 
Did the figure of $6,000 (Departmental estimates explanations 690 1 02 ) cover the entire cost. 
Were any additional staff employed to review these pensioners. 
Did the $6,000 include the cost of medical examinations. 
I second the motion. I will detain the House for two or three minutes on this matter. I know that some Government members have enjoyed the evening and want to go back to wherever they were enjoying the evening. 
I am prepared to do it if the honourable member for Canberra wants to be named. It is not my job to name him. Let me make one or two reasonable points about this matter. Since this legislation was last before a legislation committee and then in this House, there have been two reports from royal commissions. One was a small report from the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. The other report was a lengthy one from the New South Wales royal commission into drugs. Surely, if there is any point in having royal commissions investigate how to deal with the problem of drugs in society and law enforcement, then it seems terribly reasonable to me to take this legislation before a committee. The Government has a two to one majority on that type of committee. Surely it is not scared that Opposition arguments will convince it on these points. Last time we did. The honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  whom I cannot see in the House but who is probably here somewhere, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  and I think the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  who is sitting next to him, were people on that committee who behaved quite rationally and reasonably. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who was in charge of that committee at that time, also behaved in the same manner. 
It is all very well to laugh about the legislation which the House is passing tonight and which is binding on this country and on a number of bodies under the control of this Government. Government members are laughing about the proposition that under the legislation the Federal Police can place a listening device in any solicitor's office and use any facts that it obtains, not only so far as the drug criminal is concerned, but also on any other client of the solicitor. Surely Government members consider that to be an important issue. If they do not consider that to be an important issue then all I can say is that they do not deserve to be members of the House. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 November 1 979: 
What units are used by the Australian Radiation Laboratories for measuring levels of alpha-radiation of the miners and other exposed workers at Nabarlek. 
What are the (a) mean and (b) highest exposure levels of alpha-radiation measured to date of the air in the breathing zone of employees at Nabarlek whose work takes them into areas of significant radiation. 
Will he supply estimates of the (a) mean and (b) highest dosages of alpha-radiation in these employees over the life of the mine, measured in working level months, where one working level = 1.3 x 10' MeV of potential alpha energy per litre of air. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Is diethyl stilbestrol used in meat and poultry production. 
If so, is there evidence of its possible consumption by those eating the meat products. 
Can he say whether its use as a stock feed has been banned in the United States of America. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
Are premiums paid to life insurance companies, for hospital insurance policies, a tax deduction as claimed on page 1 of the 'Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia Bulletin of October 1979. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
What Commonwealth statutory authorities were created in (a) 1976, (b) 1977, (c) 1978 and (d) 1979 to date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
What was the (a) number of and (b) total sum paid on (i) claims involving 75 per cent of medical expenses for disadvantaged persons and (ii) claims involving 85 per cent of medical expenses for eligible pensioners since 1 November 1978. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) When did the Australian Capital Territory Totalisation Agency Board apply for a licence to start a radio station in Canberra. 
2 ) When will he reply to the application. 
) What is the reason for delay. 
Are any frequencies available. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Is the Australia-USSR Society at present conducting a propaganda festival in Sydney. 
If so, is part of this festival also part of the International Year of the Child program. 
Is the Government malting a financial contribution to this festival; if so, what amount. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Who investigates allegations of charges of graft within the Federal Narcotics Bureau. 
How many investigations of alleged graft have been undertaken within the Bureau in each year since 1 970. 
What was the result of each investigation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
When was the States Grants (Home Care) Act amended to change the funding basis for approved housekeeping or other domestic activities and for the salary of welfare officers employed in conjunction with a senior citizens' centre from a $2:$ 1 to a $ 1 : $ 1 basis with the States. 
What has been the estimated saving to the Government since that date. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
1 ) When was the service pension paid to eligible veterans aged 70 years and over frozen with future increases in the form of an income-tested supplement. 
What has been the estimated saving to the Government since that date. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 October 1 979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to motion No. 75 carried at the 64th National Congress of the R.S.L. condemning the action of the Government in deleting lunch allowances for war veterans attending medical appointments with his Department unless they are away from home more than 13 hours. 
If so, will he consider the request that payment be made where veterans are away from home between 1000 and 1400 hours. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
What were the total contributions collected by (a) medical and (b) hospital funds during each of the three months periods ending (i) 30 June 1978, (ii) 30 September 1978, (iii) 31 December 1978, (iv) 31 March 1979 and (v) 30 June 1979 or for any of these periods for which figures are available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 6 November 1979: 
1 ) Which State Governments, apart from the New South Wales Government, provide batteries and hearing aids to persons who are not pensioners but who are on low incomes and are ineligible to receive assistance from the Commonwealth. 
Did he made a commitment to the general aims of the 1979 Deafness Awareness Week; if so, will he broaden the terms of eligibility for hearing aid assistance from the Commonwealth in view of inequities which arise due to differing State provisions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Are there weight limits for employment with the Commonwealth Bank; if so, are these limits so rigidly applied as to exclude from employment a person otherwise suitable for a position. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Is it a fact, as estimated by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its report on Drug Problems in Australia, that in the 6 years prior to 1 979 the tobacco industry in Australia spent close to $ 100m on advertising whereas expenditure on anti-smoking campaigns over the same period was of the order of $ 1.5m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
Why is the World Wildlife Fund included in the list of charities to which donations are tax deductible, while donations to UNICEF, Save the Children, and Austcare, which give aid to human beings, receive no similar tax relief. 
